



1
10
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
11
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
2
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
3
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
4
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
5
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
6
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
7
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
8
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
9
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
Champaign, IL 61825
P.O. Box 2782
Illinois Benedictine College" (or to such other person
additional cost, fee or expense, a copy of the etext
and underline (_) characters may be used to convey
as the Project Gutenberg Association may direct)
author of the work, although tilde (~), asterisk (*)
by the program that displays the etext (as is the
case, for instance, with most word processors).
characters may be used to indicate hypertext links.
consider an etext *not* clearly readable if it
contains characters other than those intended by the
distributing under our trademark, you incur no
distribution.
expense into in plain ASCII, EBCDIC or equivalent form
federal income tax return with respect to your profits
for that year.
in its original plain ASCII form (or in EBCDIC or
obligation to charge money or earn profits for your
other equivalent proprietary form).
punctuation intended by the author, and additional
were legally required to prepare) your year-end
within the 60 days following each date you prepare (or
Ausonii Epistola, xvi.  75-80.
Mail:  Prof. Michael Hart
Bitnet: hart@uiucvmd
Tel:  (212) 254-5093
Attmail: internet!vmd.cso.uiuc.edu!Hart
Internet: hart@vmd.cso.uiuc.edu
[*]  Is required only if you derive such profits.  In
[*]  Shall be paid to "Project Gutenberg Association /
[*]  The etext may be readily converted by the reader at no
[*]  The etext, when displayed, is clearly readable.  We
[*]  You provide, or agree to also provide on request at no
accepted accounting practices.  The license fee:
compressed, mark-up, or proprietary form, including any
form resulting from conversion by word processing or hyper-
net profits you derive from distributing this etext under
quires that you do not remove, alter or modify the etext or
text software, but only so long as *EITHER*:
the trademark, determined in accordance with generally
this "small print!" statement.  You may however, if you
wish, distribute this etext in machine readable binary,
'Tis thee (my self) that for my self I praise,
(1) The etext, when displayed, is clearly readable, and does
(2) The etext is readily convertible by the reader at no
(3) You provide or agree to provide on request at no
(Though you do any thing) he thinks no ill.
Ah but those tears are pearl which thy love sheds,
All days are nights to see till I see thee,
All losses are restored, and sorrows end.
All this away, and me most wretchcd make.
And all in war with Time for love of you,
And even thence thou wilt be stol'n I fear,
And him as for a map doth Nature store,
And mock you with me after I am gone.
And more, much more than in my verse can sit,
And my heart's right, thy inward love of heart.
And night doth nightly make grief's length seem stronger
And nights bright days when dreams do show thee me.
And nothing 'gainst Time's scythe can make defence
And other strains of woe, which now seem woe,
And see thy blood warm when thou feel'st it cold.
And so of you, beauteous and lovely youth,
And so should you, to love things nothing worth.
And that is this, and this with thee remains.
And that thou teachest how to make one twain,
And their gross painting might be better used,
And they are rich, and ransom all ill deeds.
And they shall live, and he in them still green.
And thou (all they) hast all the all of me.
And thou in this shalt find thy monument,
And yet to times in hope, my verse shall stand
And you must live drawn by your own sweet skill.
As he takes from you, I engraft you new.
As high as learning, my rude ignorance.
As thou being mine, mine is thy good report.
As thou being mine, mine is thy good report.
As thus, mine eye's due is thy outward part,
As with your shadow I with these did play.
Awakes my heart, to heart's and eye's delight.
Be not self-willed for thou art much too fair,
Because I would not dull you with my song.
Being fond on praise, which makes your praises worse.
Being had to triumph, being lacked to hope.
Blessed are you whose worthiness gives scope,
But day doth daily draw my sorrows longer,
But do not so, I love thee in such sort,
But do not so, I love thee in such sort,
But flowers distilled though they with winter meet,
But heavy tears, badges of either's woe.
But here's the joy, my friend and I are one,
But if the while I think on thee (dear friend)
But if thou live remembered not to be,
But since he died and poets better prove,
But since she pricked thee out for women's pleasure,
But sweet, or colour it had stol'n from thee.
But thou art all my art, and dost advance
But weep to have, that which it fears to lose.
But were some child of yours alive that time,
But what's so blessed-fair that fears no blot?
But when your countenance filled up his line,
But why thy odour matcheth not thy show,
But you like none, none you for constant heart.
By praising him here who doth hence remain.
Compared with loss of thee, will not seem so.
Die single and thine image dies with thee.
Ere you were born was beauty's summer dead.
Even that your pity is enough to cure me.
Even to thy pure and most most loving breast.
Fair, kind, and true, have often lived alone.
Finding the first conceit of love there bred,
For I am shamed by that which I bring forth,
For I must ne'er love him whom thou dost hate.
For as the sun is daily new and old,
For fear of which, hear this thou age unbred,
For nothing this wide universe I call,
For sweetest things turn sourest by their deeds,
For that same groan doth put this in my mind,
For thee watch I, whilst thou dost wake elsewhere,
For thee, against my self I'll vow debate,
For thee, and for my self, no quiet find.
For thy sweet love remembered such wealth brings,
For truth proves thievish for a prize so dear.
For we which now behold these present days,
From me far off, with others all too near.
Give my love fame faster than Time wastes life,
Have eyes to wonder, but lack tongues to praise.
Hers by thy beauty tempting her to thee,
His beauty shall in these black lines be seen,
How like Eve's apple doth thy beauty grow,
I am to wait, though waiting so be hell,
I can't communicate with people who take too long to respond
I send them back again and straight grow sad.
I will not praise that purpose not to sell.
If it be poisoned, 'tis the lesser sin,
If my slight muse do please these curious days,
If some suspect of ill masked not thy show,
If thy sweet virtue answer not thy show.
In all external grace you have some part,
In days long since, before these last so bad.
In sleep a king, but waking no such matter.
Incapable of more, replete with you,
Kill me with spites yet we must not be foes.
Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
Leese but their show, their substance still lives sweet.
Lest the wise world should look into your moan,
Let them say more that like of hearsay well,
Lilies that fester, smell far worse than weeds.
Lo thus by day my limbs, by night my mind,
Look what is best, that best I wish in thee,
Love is a babe, then might I not say so
Make thee another self for love of me,
Makes summer's welcome, thrice more wished, more rare.
Me for my dumb thoughts, speaking in effect.
Mine be thy love and thy love's use their treasure.
More flowers I noted, yet I none could see,
My grief lies onward and my joy behind.
My love shall in my verse ever live young.
My most true mind thus maketh mine untrue.
No love toward others in that bosom sits
Not blame your pleasure be it ill or well.
O him she stores, to show what wealth she had,
O learn to read what silent love hath writ,
O none but unthrifts, dear my love you know,
O none, unless this miracle have might,
O sure I am the wits of former days,
Or call it winter, which being full of care,
Or else of thee this I prognosticate,
Or gluttoning on all, or all away.
Or if they sing, 'tis with so dull a cheer,
Or if they sleep, thy picture in my sight
Painting my age with beauty of thy days.
Pity me then dear friend, and I assure ye,
Pity the world, or else this glutton be,
Praising thy worth, despite his cruel hand.
Presume not on thy heart when mine is slain,
Receiving nought by elements so slow,
Save breed to brave him, when he takes thee hence.
Save that to die, I leave my love alone.
Save thou my rose, in it thou art my all.
Shall profit thee, and much enrich thy book.
She carved thee for her seal, and meant thereby,
Since from thee going, he went wilful-slow,
Since what he owes thee, thou thy self dost pay.
Since why to love, I can allege no cause.
Sings this to thee, 'Thou single wilt prove none'.
So is my love still telling what is told.
So long as men can breathe or eyes can see,
So long lives this, and this gives life to thee.
So thou prevent'st his scythe, and crooked knife.
So thou, thy self out-going in thy noon:
So till the judgment that your self arise,
So true a fool is love, that in your will,
Such is my love, to thee I so belong,
Suns of the world may stain, when heaven's sun staineth.
Sweet flattery, then she loves but me alone.
Take heed (dear heart) of this large privilege,
Than both your poets can in praise devise.
That I an accessary needs must be,
That all the world besides methinks are dead.
That beauty still may live in thine or thee.
That for thy right, my self will bear all wrong.
That in black ink my love may still shine bright.
That leaves look pale, dreading the winter's near.
That mine eye loves it and doth first begin.
That on himself such murd'rous shame commits.
That then I scorn to change my state with kings.
The hardest knife ill-used doth lose his edge.
The pain be mine, but thine shall be the praise.
The soil is this, that thou dost common grow.
The worst was this, my love was my decay.
The worth of that, is that which it contains,
Their images I loved, I view in thee,
Theirs for their style I'll read, his for his love'.
Then do thy office Muse, I teach thee how,
Then give me welcome, next my heaven the best,
Then happy I that love and am beloved
Then if he thrive and I be cast away,
Then lacked I matter, that enfeebled mine.
Then may I dare to boast how I do love thee,
Then others, for the breath of words respect,
Then thank him not for that which he doth say,
Then thou alone kingdoms of hearts shouldst owe.
There lives more life in one of your fair eyes,
Therefore like her, I sometime hold my tongue:
These offices, so oft as thou wilt look,
They draw but what they see, know not the heart.
Thine by thy beauty being false to me.
This thou perceiv'st, which makes thy love more strong,
This thought is as a death which cannot choose
This told, I joy, but then no longer glad,
This were to be new made when thou art old,
This wish I have, then ten times happy me.
Thou gav'st me thine not to give back again.
Thou mayst be false, and yet I know it not.
Thou shouldst print more, not let that copy die.
Thus do I pine and surfeit day by day,
Thus have I had thee as a dream doth flatter,
Thy end is truth's and beauty's doom and date.
Thy unused beauty must be tombed with thee,
Till then, not show my head where thou mayst prove me.
Tired with all these, from these would I be gone,
To be death's conquest and make worms thine heir.
To eat the world's due, by the grave and thee.
To give away your self, keeps your self still,
To give full growth to that which still doth grow.
To hear with eyes belongs to love's fine wit.
To leave poor me, thou hast the strength of laws,
To love that well, which thou must leave ere long.
To make him seem long hence, as he shows now.
To show false Art what beauty was of yore.
To subjects worse have given admiring praise.
To that sweet thief which sourly robs from me.
Towards thee I'll run, and give him leave to go.
Unlooked on diest unless thou get a son.
When that shall vade, by verse distills your truth.
When tyrants' crests and tombs of brass are spent.
Where I may not remove nor be removed.
Where breath most breathes, even in the mouths of men.
Where cheeks need blood, in thee it is abused.
Where time and outward form would show it dead.
Which three till now, never kept seat in one.
Which used lives th' executor to be.
Whose speechless song being many, seeming one,
Wretched in this alone, that thou mayst take,
Yet do thy worst old Time: despite thy wrong,
Yet eyes this cunning want to grace their art,
Yet him for this, my love no whit disdaineth,
Yet seemed it winter still, and you away,
You are so strongly in my purpose bred,
You had a father, let your son say so.
You live in this, and dwell in lovers' eyes.
You should live twice in it, and in my rhyme.
You still shall live (such virtue hath my pen)
You to your beauteous blessings add a curse,
Your own glass shows you, when you look in it.
as I just can't keep their trains of thought alive for those
extended periods of time.  Even quick responses should reply
have also received too many disks that cannot be formatted.
it can be very difficult to read an Apple disk on an IBM.  I
option in RiceMail).  This is more difficult with paper.
thousands of lines of email I receive every day.  Even then,
under the "RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND" set forth above.
with the text of the messages they are answering (reply text
CompuServe: >internet:hart@.vmd.cso.uiuc.edu
'Gainst death, and all-oblivious enmity
'Had my friend's Muse grown with this growing age,
'Thus far the miles are measured from thy friend.'
'Tis not enough that through the cloud thou break,
'Truth needs no colour with his colour fixed,
(A closet never pierced with crystal eyes)
(Like to the lark at break of day arising
(Making lascivious comments on thy sport)
(Though words come hindmost) holds his rank before,
*not* contain characters other than those intended by the
A crow that flies in heaven's sweetest air.
A dearer birth than this his love had brought
A god in love, to whom I am confined.
A liquid prisoner pent in walls of glass,
A loss in love that touches me more nearly.
A man in hue all hues in his controlling,
A quest of thoughts, all tenants to the heart,
A third nor red, nor white, had stol'n of both,
A vengeful canker eat him up to death.
A woman's face with nature's own hand painted,
A woman's gentle heart but not acquainted
A) YOU MAY (AND ARE ENCOURAGED) TO DISTRIBUTE ELECTRONIC AND
ASCII.
Ab usque Rheni limite
Above a mortal pitch, that struck me dead?
Admit impediments, love is not love
Advantage on the kingdom of the shore,
Aesopiam trimetriam;
After a thousand victories once foiled,
After my death (dear love) forget me quite,
Against confounding age's cruel knife,
Against my love shall be as I am now
Against that time (if ever that time come)
Against that time do I ensconce me here
Against that time when thou shalt strangely pass,
Against the stormy gusts of winter's day
Against the wrackful siege of batt'ring days,
Against this coming end you should prepare,
Against thy reasons making no defence.
Ah do not, when my heart hath 'scaped this sorrow,
Ah wherefore with infection should he live,
Ah yet doth beauty like a dial hand,
Ah, if thou issueless shalt hap to die,
Alack what poverty my muse brings forth,
Alas 'tis true, I have gone here and there,
Alas why fearing of time's tyranny,
All frailties that besiege all kinds of blood,
All men make faults, and even I in this,
All mine was thine, before thou hadst this more:
All these I better in one general best.
All tongues (the voice of souls) give thee that due,
Although in me each part will be forgotten.
Although our undivided loves are one:
Although thou steal thee all my poverty:
An eye more bright than theirs, less false in rolling:
And 'gainst my self a lawful plea commence:
And I am still with them, and they with thee.
And I by this will be a gainer too,
And I will comment upon that offence,
And Time that gave, doth now his gift confound.
And all my soul, and all my every part;
And all the rest forgot for which he toiled:
And all things turns to fair, that eyes can see!
And all those beauties whereof now he's king
And all those friends which I thought buried.
And almost thence my nature is subdued
And art made tongue-tied by authority,
And arts with thy sweet graces graced be.
And barren rage of death's eternal cold?
And beauty making beautiful old rhyme,
And being frank she lends to those are free:
And both for my sake lay on me this cross,
And brass eternal slave to mortal rage.
And broils root out the work of masonry,
And buds of marjoram had stol'n thy hair,
And burn the long-lived phoenix, in her blood,
And by a part of all thy glory live:
And by addition me of thee defeated,
And by and by clean starved for a look,
And by their verdict is determined
And captive good attending captain ill.
And chide thy beauty, and thy straying youth,
And constant stars in them I read such art
And darkly bright, are bright in dark directed.
And delves the parallels in beauty's brow,
And die as fast as they see others grow,
And dig deep trenches in thy beauty's field,
And do not drop in for an after-loss:
And do so love, yet when they have devised,
And do whate'er thou wilt swift-footed Time
And dost him grace when clouds do blot the heaven:
And dumb presagers of my speaking breast,
And each (though enemies to either's reign)
And each doth good turns now unto the other,
And every fair from fair sometime declines,
And every fair with his fair doth rehearse,
And every humour hath his adjunct pleasure,
And folly (doctor-like) controlling skill,
And for a woman wert thou first created,
And for my sake even so doth she abuse me,
And for my self mine own worth do define,
And for that riches where is my deserving?
And for the peace of you I hold such strife
And for they looked but with divining eyes,
And for this sin there is no remedy,
And fortify your self in your decay
And found it in thy cheek: he can afford
And found such fair assistance in my verse,
And from the forlorn world his visage hide
And gilded honour shamefully misplaced,
And given grace a double majesty.
And gives thy pen both skill and argument.
And hang more praise upon deceased I,
And haply of our old acquaintance tell.
And having climbed the steep-up heavenly hill,
And having thee, of all men's pride I boast.
And he that calls on thee, let him bring forth
And heavily from woe to woe tell o'er
And heavy ignorance aloft to fly,
And husband nature's riches from expense,
And in fresh numbers number all your graces,
And in his thoughts of love doth share a part.
And in mine own love's strength seem to decay,
And in the praise thereof spends all his might,
And in themselves their pride lies buried,
And in this change is my invention spent,
And keep invention in a noted weed,
And keep my drooping eyelids open wide,
And kept unused the user so destroys it:
And lace it self with his society?
And life no longer than thy love will stay,
And like enough thou know'st thy estimate,
And like unlettered clerk still cry Amen,
And live no more to shame nor me, nor you.
And loathsome canker lives in sweetest bud.
And look upon my self and curse my fate,
And losing her, my friend hath found that loss,
And made my self a motley to the view,
And maiden virtue rudely strumpeted,
And make me travel forth without my cloak,
And make the earth devour her own sweet brood,
And make time's spoils despised everywhere.
And many maiden gardens yet unset,
And moan th' expense of many a vanished sight.
And my great mind most kingly drinks it up,
And my sick muse doth give an other place.
And needy nothing trimmed in jollity,
And nothing stands but for his scythe to mow.
And of this book, this learning mayst thou taste.
And often is his gold complexion dimmed,
And only herald to the gaudy spring,
And our dear love lose name of single one,
And patience tame to sufferance bide each check,
And peace proclaims olives of endless age.
And perspective it is best painter's art.
And place my merit in the eye of scorn,
And precious phrase by all the Muses filed.
And proud of many, lives upon his gains?
And prove thee virtuous, though thou art forsworn:
And purest faith unhappily forsworn,
And puts apparel on my tattered loving,
And right perfection wrongfully disgraced,
And sable curls all silvered o'er with white:
And says in him thy fair appearance lies.
And scarcely greet me with that sun thine eye,
And see the brave day sunk in hideous night,
And shalt by fortune once more re-survey
And simple truth miscalled simplicity,
And so my patent back again is swerving.
And steal dead seeming of his living hue?
And stops her pipe in growth of riper days:
And strength by limping sway disabled
And stretched metre of an antique song.
And such a counterpart shall fame his wit,
And summer's green all girded up in sheaves
And summer's lease hath all too short a date:
And sweets grown common lose their dear delight.
And tender churl mak'st waste in niggarding:
And that fresh blood which youngly thou bestow'st,
And that in guess they measure by thy deeds,
And that unfair which fairly doth excel:
And that which governs me to go about,
And that your love taught it this alchemy?
And the firm soil win of the watery main,
And the sad augurs mock their own presage,
And then believe me, my love is as fair,
And there reigns love and all love's loving parts,
And therefore art enforced to seek anew,
And therefore have I slept in your report,
And therefore mayst without attaint o'erlook
And therefore to your fair no painting set,
And this my hand, against my self uprear,
And thou away, the very birds are mute.
And thou present'st a pure unstained prime.
And though they be outstripped by every pen,
And threescore year would make the world away:
And to be praised of ages yet to be.
And to his palate doth prepare the cup.
And to his robbery had annexed thy breath,
And to the most of praise add something more,
And to the painted banquet bids my heart:
And tongues to be, your being shall rehearse,
And trouble deaf heaven with my bootless cries,
And under thee their poesy disperse.
And wear their brave state out of memory.
And weep afresh love's long since cancelled woe,
And what is't but mine own when I praise thee?
And when a woman woos, what woman's son,
And with his presence grace impiety,
And with old woes new wail my dear time's waste:
And worse essays proved thee my best of love.
And yet it may be said I loved her dearly,
And yet love knows it is a greater grief
And yet methinks I have astronomy,
And yet this time removed was summer's time,
And you and love are still my argument:
And you but one, can every shadow lend:
And you in Grecian tires are painted new:
And you in every blessed shape we know.
And your sweet semblance to some other give.
And your true rights be termed a poet's rage,
Anon permit the basest clouds to ride,
Another time mine eye is my heart's guest,
Are both with thee, wherever I abide,
Are vanishing, or vanished out of sight,
Are windows to my breast, where-through the sun
Art left the prey of every vulgar thief.
As 'twixt a miser and his wealth is found.
As I all other in all worths surmount.
As I not for my self, but for thee will,
As I'll my self disgrace, knowing thy will,
As Philomel in summer's front doth sing,
As a decrepit father takes delight,
As after sunset fadeth in the west,
As an unperfect actor on the stage,
As any mother's child, though not so bright
As easy might I from my self depart,
As every alien pen hath got my use,
As fast as objects to his beams assemble:
As fast as thou shalt wane so fast thou grow'st,
As from my soul which in thy breast doth lie:
As if by some instinct the wretch did know
As interest of the dead, which now appear,
As on the finger of a throned queen,
As soon as think the place where he would be.
As tender nurse her babe from faring ill.
As the death-bed, whereon it must expire,
As the perfumed tincture of the roses,
As those gold candles fixed in heaven's air:
As to behold desert a beggar born,
As truth and beauty shall together thrive
As victors of my silence cannot boast,
Askance and strangely: but by all above,
At first the very worst of fortune's might.
Attending on his golden pilgrimage:
Ausonius nomen Italum
Authorizing thy trespass with compare,
Ay me, but yet thou mightst my seat forbear,
B) This license is subject to the conditions that you honor
Bare ruined choirs, where late the sweet birds sang.
Be absent from thy walks and in my tongue,
Be as thy presence is gracious and kind,
Be scorned, like old men of less truth than tongue,
Be thou the tenth Muse, ten times more in worth
Be where you list, your charter is so strong,
Bearing the wanton burden of the prime,
Bearing thy heart which I will keep so chary
Beauteous thou art, therefore to be assailed.
Beauty no pencil, beauty's truth to lay:
Beauty o'er-snowed and bareness every where:
Beauty's effect with beauty were bereft,
Because he needs no praise, wilt thou be dumb?
Before the golden tresses of the dead,
Before these bastard signs of fair were born,
Beggared of blood to blush through lively veins,
Being your slave what should I do but tend,
Being your vassal bound to stay your leisure.
Betwixt mine eye and heart a league is took,
Borne on the bier with white and bristly beard:
Both find each other, and I lose both twain,
Both grace and faults are loved of more and less:
Both truth and beauty on my love depends:
Bound for the prize of (all too precious) you,
But I forbid thee one most heinous crime,
But ah, thought kills me that I am not thought
But as the marigold at the sun's eye,
But as the riper should by time decease,
But be contented when that fell arrest,
But beauty's waste hath in the world an end,
But best is best, if never intermixed'?
But day by night and night by day oppressed.
But do thy worst to steal thy self away,
But for his theft in pride of all his growth
But for their virtue only is their show,
But from thine eyes my knowledge I derive,
But he that writes of you, if he can tell,
But heaven in thy creation did decree,
But hope of orphans, and unfathered fruit,
But if that flower with base infection meet,
But in the onset come, so shall I taste
But let your love even with my life decay.
But like a sad slave stay and think of nought
But love, for love, thus shall excuse my jade,
But makes antiquity for aye his page,
But not to tell of good, or evil luck,
But now my gracious numbers are decayed,
But out alack, he was but one hour mine,
But reckoning time, whose millioned accidents
But sad mortality o'ersways their power,
But since your worth (wide as the ocean is)
But that I hope some good conceit of thine
But that is in my thought, whose love to you
But that so much of earth and water wrought,
But that thou none lov'st is most evident:
But that wild music burthens every bough,
But the defendant doth that plea deny,
But then begins a journey in my head
But these particulars are not my measure,
But things removed that hidden in thee lie.
But those same tongues that give thee so thine own,
But thou contracted to thine own bright eyes,
But thou, to whom my jewels trifles are,
But thy eternal summer shall not fade,
But when I sleep, in dreams they look on thee,
But when from highmost pitch with weary car,
But when in thee time's furrows I behold,
But when my glass shows me my self indeed
But wherefore do not you a mightier way
But yet be blamed, if thou thy self deceivest
But you shall shine more bright in these contents
By adding one thing to my purpose nothing.
By chance, or nature's changing course untrimmed:
By children's eyes, her husband's shape in mind:
By looking on thee in the living day,
By new unfolding his imprisoned pride.
By oft predict that I in heaven find.
By seeing farther than the eye hath shown.
By that sweet ornament which truth doth give!
By those swift messengers returned from thee,
By unions married do offend thine ear,
By wilful taste of what thy self refusest.
Called to that audit by advised respects,
Calls back the lovely April of her prime,
Can bring him to his sweet up-locked treasure,
Can make you live your self in eyes of men.
Can yet the lease of my true love control,
Cannot dispraise, but in a kind of praise,
Cheered and checked even by the self-same sky:
Clouds and eclipses stain both moon and sun,
Come daily to the banks, that when they see:
Come in the rearward of a conquered woe,
Comes home again, on better judgement making.
Commit to these waste blanks, and thou shalt find
Compare them with the bett'ring of the time,
Consumed with that which it was nourished by.
Could make me any summer's story tell:
Counting no old thing old, thou mine, I thine,
Crawls to maturity, wherewith being crowned,
Creating every bad a perfect best
Creep in 'twixt vows, and change decrees of kings,
Crooked eclipses 'gainst his glory fight,
Crowning the present, doubting of the rest?
Darkening thy power to lend base subjects light?
Death's second self that seals up all in rest.
Delights to peep, to gaze therein on thee;
Describe Adonis and the counterfeit,
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen,
Desiring this man's art, and that man's scope,
Despite of wrinkles this thy golden time.
Devouring Time blunt thou the lion's paws,
Die to themselves. Sweet roses do not so,
Disdains the tillage of thy husbandry?
Divert strong minds to the course of alt'ring things:
Do in consent shake hands to torture me,
Do not so much as my poor name rehearse;
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.
Dost thou desire my slumbers should be broken,
Doth homage to his new-appearing sight,
Doth part his function, and is partly blind,
Doth spot the beauty of thy budding name!
Doth teach that case and that repose to say
Doubting the filching age will steal his treasure,
Drawn after you, you pattern of all those.
Drink up the monarch's plague this flattery?
Dulling my lines, and doing me disgrace.
Duty so great, which wit so poor as mine
Each changing place with that which goes before,
Each trifle under truest bars to thrust,
Either not assailed, or victor being charged,
Entitled in thy parts, do crowned sit,
Ere beauty's dead fleece made another gay:
Eternal numbers to outlive long date.
Even as when first I hallowed thy fair name.
Even for this, let us divided live,
Even in the eyes of all posterity
Even of five hundred courses of the sun,
Even so my sun one early morn did shine,
Even such a beauty as you master now.
Even those that said I could not love you dearer,
Exceeded by the height of happier men.
Excuse not silence so, for't lies in thee,
Excusing thy sins more than thy sins are:
Fair, kind, and true, is all my argument,
Fair, kind, and true, varying to other words,
Fandi Titianus artifex.
Farewell! thou art too dear for my possessing,
Featured like him, like him with friends possessed,
Feed'st thy light's flame with self-substantial fuel,
Feeds on the rarities of nature's truth,
Find no determination, then you were
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
Flatter the mountain tops with sovereign eye,
For I impair not beauty being mute,
For all that beauty that doth cover thee,
For all the day they view things unrespected,
For as you were when first your eye I eyed,
For at a frown they in their glory die.
For beauty's pattern to succeeding men.
For bending all my loving thoughts on thee,
For blunting the fine point of seldom pleasure.
For canker vice the sweetest buds doth love,
For every vulgar paper to rehearse?
For having traffic with thy self alone,
For how do I hold thee but by thy granting,
For if it see the rud'st or gentlest sight,
For it depends upon that love of thine.
For it no form delivers to the heart
For never-resting time leads summer on
For nimble thought can jump both sea and land,
For no man well of such a salve can speak,
For precious friends hid in death's dateless night,
For shame deny that thou bear'st love to any
For she hath no exchequer now but his,
For slander's mark was ever yet the fair,
For still temptation follows where thou art.
For such a time do I now fortify
For summer and his pleasures wait on thee,
For term of life thou art assured mine,
For that sweet odour, which doth in it live:
For then despite of space I would be brought,
For then my thoughts (from far where I abide)
For there can live no hatred in thine eye,
For thou art so possessed with murd'rous hate,
For thou not farther than my thoughts canst move,
For through the painter must you see his skill,
For thy neglect of truth in beauty dyed?
For to no other pass my verses tend,
For to thy sensual fault I bring in sense,
For what care I who calls me well or ill,
For when these quicker elements are gone
For where is she so fair whose uneared womb
For whether beauty, birth, or wealth, or wit,
For who's so dumb that cannot write to thee,
For you in me can nothing worthy prove.
From fairest creatures we desire increase,
From hands of falsehood, in sure wards of trust!
From hence your memory death cannot take,
From his low tract and look another way:
From limits far remote, where thou dost stay,
From sullen earth) sings hymns at heaven's gate,
From thee, the pleasure of the fleeting year!
From this vile world with vilest worms to dwell:
From thy behaviour, beauty doth he give
From whence at pleasure thou mayst come and part,
From where thou art, why should I haste me thence?
From you have I been absent in the spring,
Full many a glorious morning have I seen,
Gentle thou art, and therefore to be won,
Gilding pale streams with heavenly alchemy:
Gilding the object whereupon it gazeth,
Give not a windy night a rainy morrow,
Give warning to the world that I am fled
Giving him aid, my verse astonished.
Gored mine own thoughts, sold cheap what is most dear,
Grant if thou wilt, thou art beloved of many,
Great princes' favourites their fair leaves spread,
Hang on such thorns, and play as wantonly,
Haply I think on thee, and then my state,
Happy to have thy love, happy to die!
Harsh, featureless, and rude, barrenly perish:
Hast thou the master mistress of my passion,
Hath been before, how are our brains beguiled,
Hath dear religious love stol'n from mine eye,
Hath motion, and mine eye may be deceived.
Hath put a spirit of youth in every thing:
Hath travelled on to age's steepy night,
Have added feathers to the learned's wing,
Have from the forests shook three summers' pride,
He lends thee virtue, and he stole that word,
He nor that affable familiar ghost
He of tall building, and of goodly pride.
He robs thee of, and pays it thee again,
Hearing you praised, I say 'tis so, 'tis true,
Herein lives wisdom, beauty, and increase,
Hiding thy brav'ry in their rotten smoke?
Him in thy course untainted do allow,
His rider loved not speed being made from thee:
His tender heir might bear his memory:
Holds in perfection but a little moment.
How can I then be elder than thou art?
How can I then return in happy plight
How can my muse want subject to invent
How careful was I when I took my way,
How far I toil, still farther off from thee.
How far a modern quill doth come too short,
How heavy do I journey on the way,
How like a winter hath my absence been
How many a holy and obsequious tear
How many gazers mightst thou lead away,
How many lambs might the stern wolf betray,
How much more praise deserved thy beauty's use,
How sweet and lovely dost thou make the shame,
How to divide the conquest of thy sight,
How with this rage shall beauty hold a plea,
How would (I say) mine eyes be blessed made,
How would thy shadow's form, form happy show,
Hung with the trophies of my lovers gone,
I all alone beweep my outcast state,
I cannot blame thee, for my love thou usest,
I do forgive thy robbery gentle thief
I found (or thought I found) you did exceed,
I grant (sweet love) thy lovely argument
I grant thou wert not married to my muse,
I have no precious time at all to spend;
I love not less, though less the show appear,
I make my love engrafted to this store:
I may not evermore acknowledge thee,
I must attend, time's leisure with my moan.
I must each day say o'er the very same,
I never saw that you did painting need,
I see descriptions of the fairest wights,
I see their antique pen would have expressed,
I see, a better state to me belongs
I should in thought control your times of pleasure,
I sigh the lack of many a thing I sought,
I summon up remembrance of things past,
I tell the day to please him thou art bright,
I think good thoughts, whilst other write good words,
I was not sick of any fear from thence.
I will acquaintance strangle and look strange:
If I could write the beauty of your eyes,
If I lose thee, my loss is my love's gain,
If all were minded so, the times should cease,
If any, be a satire to decay,
If from thy self, to store thou wouldst convert:
If it were filled with your most high deserts?
If like a lamb he could his looks translate!
If not from my love's breath? The purple pride
If ten of thine ten times refigured thee:
If the dull substance of my flesh were thought,
If the true concord of well-tuned sounds,
If there be nothing new, but that which is,
If thinking on me then should make you woe.
If thou couldst answer 'This fair child of mine
If thou survive my well-contented day,
If thou wilt leave me, do not leave me last,
If time have any wrinkle graven there,
In gentle numbers time so idly spent,
In him those holy antique hours are seen,
In many's looks, the false heart's history
In me thou seest the glowing of such fire,
In me thou seest the twilight of such day,
In my love's veins thou hast too grossly dyed.
In one of thine, from that which thou departest,
In other accents do this praise confound
In others' works thou dost but mend the style,
In our two loves there is but one respect,
In polished form of well refined pen.
In praise of ladies dead, and lovely knights,
In process of the seasons have I seen,
In sequent toil all forwards do contend.
In singleness the parts that thou shouldst bear:
In so profound abysm I throw all care
In tender embassy of love to thee,
In thee thy summer ere thou be distilled:
In thy soul's thought (all naked) will bestow it:
In true plain words, by thy true-telling friend.
In whose confine immured is the store,
In winged speed no motion shall I know,
Incertainties now crown themselves assured,
Increasing store with loss, and loss with store.
Injurious distance should not stop my way,
Intend a zealous pilgrimage to thee,
Internet:  72600.2026@compuserve.com
Is but the seemly raiment of my heart,
Is from the book of honour razed quite,
Is it for fear to wet a widow's eye,
Is it thy spirit that thou send'st from thee
Is it thy will, thy image should keep open
Is poorly imitated after you,
Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange.
It is my love that keeps mine eye awake,
It is so grounded inward in my heart.
Just to the time, not with the time exchanged,
Kind is my love to-day, to-morrow kind,
Kissing with golden face the meadows green;
Knowing a better spirit doth use your name,
Lean penury within that pen doth dwell,
Leaving thee living in posterity?
Lest I (too much profane) should do it wronk:
Lest my bewailed guilt should do thee shame,
Let him but copy what in you is writ,
Let me confess that we two must be twain,
Let me not to the marriage of true minds
Let not my love be called idolatry,
Let this sad interim like the ocean be
Let those who are in favour with their stars,
Let those whom nature hath not made for store,
Lifts up his burning head, each under eye
Like a deceived husband, so love's face,
Like as the waves make towards the pebbled shore,
Like feeble age he reeleth from the day,
Like him that travels I return again,
Like stones of worth they thinly placed are,
Like widowed wombs after their lords' decease:
Lo in the orient when the gracious light
Look in thy glass and tell the face thou viewest,
Look in your glass and there appears a face,
Look what an unthrift in the world doth spend
Look what thy memory cannot contain,
Look whom she best endowed, she gave thee more;
Looking on darkness which the blind do see.
Lord of my love, to whom in vassalage
Loving offenders thus I will excuse ye,
Made old offences of affections new.
Make answer Muse, wilt thou not haply say,
Make glad and sorry seasons as thou fleet'st,
Make sweet some vial; treasure thou some place,
Make war upon this bloody tyrant Time?
Makes black night beauteous, and her old face new.
Making a couplement of proud compare
Making a famine where abundance lies,
Making his style admired every where.
Making no summer of another's green,
Making their tomb the womb wherein they grew?
Mark how one string sweet husband to another,
Mark how with my neglect I do dispense.
May make seem bare, in wanting words to show it;
May still seem love to me, though altered new:
Methinks no face so gracious is as mine,
Might I not then say 'Now I love you best,'
Mine appetite I never more will grind
Mine eye and heart are at a mortal war,
Mine eye hath played the painter and hath stelled,
Mine eye well knows what with his gust is 'greeing,
Mine eye, my heart thy picture's sight would bar,
Mine eyes have drawn thy shape, and thine for me
Mine own self-love quite contrary I read:
Mine own true love that doth my rest defeat,
More sharp to me than spurring to his side,
More than that tongue that more hath more expressed.
Most true it is, that I have looked on truth
Most worthy comfort, now my greatest grief,
Much liker than your painted counterfeit:
Music to hear, why hear'st thou music sadly?
My body is the frame wherein 'tis held,
My bonds in thee are all determinate.
My glass shall not persuade me I am old,
My heart doth plead that thou in him dost lie,
My heart, mine eye the freedom of that right,
My heavy eyelids to the weary night?
My life being made of four, with two alone,
My life hath in this line some interest,
My love is strengthened though more weak in seeming,
My love looks fresh, and death to me subscribes,
My most full flame should afterwards burn clearer,
My name be buried where my body is,
My saucy bark (inferior far to his)
My self corrupting salving thy amiss,
My spirit is thine the better part of me,
My sweet love's beauty, though my lover's life.
My tongue-tied muse in manners holds her still,
My verse alone had all thy gentle grace,
Naming thy name, blesses an ill report.
Nativity once in the main of light,
Nature's bequest gives nothing but doth lend,
Nay if you read this line, remember not,
Neither in inward worth nor outward fair
Never believe though in my nature reigned,
No bitterness that I will bitter think,
No longer mourn for me when I am dead,
No longer yours, than you your self here live,
No love, my love, that thou mayst true love call,
No matter then although my foot did stand
No more be grieved at that which thou hast done,
No praise to thee, but what in thee doth live.
No shape so true, no truth of such account,
No, neither he, nor his compeers by night
None else to me, nor I to none alive,
Nor Mars his sword, nor war's quick fire shall burn:
Nor can I fortune to brief minutes tell;
Nor can thy shame give physic to my grief,
Nor dare I chide the world-without-end hour,
Nor dare I question with my jealous thought,
Nor did I wonder at the lily's white,
Nor double penance to correct correction.
Nor draw no lines there with thine antique pen,
Nor gates of steel so strong but time decays?
Nor gives to necessary wrinkles place,
Nor his own vision holds what it doth catch:
Nor it nor no remembrance what it was.
Nor lose possession of that fair thou ow'st,
Nor my beloved as an idol show,
Nor praise the deep vermilion in the rose,
Nor services to do till you require.
Nor shall death brag thou wand'rest in his shade,
Nor think the bitterness of absence sour,
Nor thou with public kindness honour me,
Not from the stars do I my judgement pluck,
Not making worse what nature made so clear,
Not marble, nor the gilded monuments
Not mine own fears, nor the prophetic soul,
Not that the summer is less pleasant now
Nothing sweet boy, but yet like prayers divine,
Now all is done, have what shall have no end,
Now counting best to be with you alone,
Now is the time that face should form another,
Now proud as an enjoyer, and anon
Now see what good turns eyes for eyes have done,
Now stand you on the top of happy hours,
Now while the world is bent my deeds to cross,
Now with the drops of this most balmy time,
O 'tis the first, 'tis flattery in my seeing,
O absence what a torment wouldst thou prove,
O blame me not if I no more can write!
O carve not with thy hours my love's fair brow,
O change thy thought, that I may change my mind,
O fearful meditation, where alack,
O for my sake do you with Fortune chide,
O give thy self the thanks if aught in me,
O how I faint when I of you do write,
O how much more doth beauty beauteous seem,
O how shall summer's honey breath hold out,
O how thy worth with manners may I sing,
O if (I say) you look upon this verse,
O in what sweets dost thou thy sins enclose!
O know sweet love I always write of you,
O lest the world should task you to recite,
O lest your true love may seem false in this,
O let me suffer (being at your beck)
O let me true in love but truly write,
O let my looks be then the eloquence,
O never say that I was false of heart,
O no, thy love though much, is not so great,
O that record could with a backward look,
O that you were your self, but love you are
O then vouchsafe me but this loving thought,
O therefore love be of thyself so wary,
O truant Muse what shall be thy amends,
O what a happy title do I find,
O what a mansion have those vices got,
O what excuse will my poor beast then find,
O'ercharged with burthen of mine own love's might:
Of bird, of flower, or shape which it doth latch,
Of different flowers in odour and in hue,
Of faults concealed, wherein I am attainted:
Of hand, of foot, of lip, of eye, of brow,
Of his quick objects hath the mind no part,
Of his self-love to stop posterity?
Of more delight than hawks and horses be:
Of mouthed graves will give thee memory,
Of my dull bearer, when from thee I speed,
Of others' voices, that my adder's sense,
Of plagues, of dearths, or seasons' quality,
Of princes shall outlive this powerful rhyme,
Of public honour and proud titles boast,
Of the wide world, dreaming on things to come,
Of their fair subject, blessing every book.
Of their sweet deaths, are sweetest odours made:
Of this our time, all you prefiguring,
Of thy fair health, recounting it to me.
On Helen's cheek all art of beauty set,
On newer proof, to try an older friend,
On your broad main doth wilfully appear.
One blushing shame, another white despair:
One thing expressing, leaves out difference.
Or (being wrecked) I am a worthless boat,
Or I shall live your epitaph to make,
Or any of these all, or all, or more
Or as sweet-seasoned showers are to the ground;
Or as the wardrobe which the robe doth hide,
Or at your hand th' account of hours to crave,
Or captain jewels in the carcanet.
Or durst inhabit on a living brow:
Or else receiv'st with pleasure thine annoy?
Or from their proud lap pluck them where they grew:
Or heart in love with sighs himself doth smother;
Or me to whom thou gav'st it, else mistaking,
Or say with princes if it shall go well
Or some fierce thing replete with too much rage,
Or state it self confounded, to decay,
Or ten times happier be it ten for one,
Or to thy self at least kind-hearted prove,
Or what strong hand can hold his swift foot back,
Or whether doth my mind being crowned with you
Or whether revolution be the same.
Or whether shall I say mine eye saith true,
Or who his spoil of beauty can forbid?
Or who is he so fond will be the tomb,
Or you survive when I in earth am rotten,
Others, but stewards of their excellence:
Our love was new, and then but in the spring,
Pedestre concinnans opus
Pity me then, and wish I were renewed,
Plods dully on, to bear that weight in me,
Pluck the keen teeth from the fierce tiger's jaws,
Pointing to each his thunder, rain and wind,
Points on me graciously with fair aspect,
Possessing or pursuing no delight
Potions of eisel 'gainst my strong infection,
Praeceptor Augusti tui
Presents thy shadow to my sightless view,
Profitless usurer why dost thou use
Proving his beauty by succession thine.
Quam vertit exili stylo
Resembling sire, and child, and happy mother,
Resembling strong youth in his middle age,
Reserve their character with golden quill,
Reserve them for my love, not for their rhyme,
Return forgetful Muse, and straight redeem,
Return of love, more blest may be the view.
Richer than wealth, prouder than garments' costs,
Rise resty Muse, my love's sweet face survey,
Robbing no old to dress his beauty new,
Roses have thorns, and silver fountains mud,
Roses of shadow, since his rose is true?
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May,
Ruin hath taught me thus to ruminate
Sap checked with frost and lusty leaves quite gone,
Save that my soul's imaginary sight
Save what is had, or must from you be took.
Save where thou art not, though I feel thou art,
Save where you are, how happy you make those.
Say that thou didst forsake me for some fault,
Seeking that beauteous roof to ruinate
Seems seeing, but effectually is out:
Self, so self-loving were iniquity.
Serving with looks his sacred majesty,
Sets you most rich in youth before my sight,
Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?
Shall Time's best jewel from Time's chest lie hid?
Shall hate be fairer lodged than gentle love?
Shall neigh (no dull flesh) in his fiery race,
Shall reasons find of settled gravity;
Shall sum my count, and make my old excuse'
Shall you pace forth, your praise shall still find room,
Shifts but his place, for still the world enjoys it;
Show me your image in some antique book,
Showing their birth, and where they did proceed?
Sin of self-love possesseth all mine eye,
Since I left you, mine eye is in my mind,
Since all alike my songs and praises be
Since brass, nor stone, nor earth, nor boundless sea,
Since every one, hath every one, one shade,
Since first I saw you fresh which yet are green.
Since mind at first in character was done.
Since seldom coming in that long year set,
Since spite of him I'll live in this poor rhyme,
Since sweets and beauties do themselves forsake,
Since that my life on thy revolt doth lie,
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem,
Sinks down to death, oppressed with melancholy.
So I for fear of trust, forget to say,
So I, made lame by Fortune's dearest spite
So all my best is dressing old words new,
So all their praises are but prophecies
So am I as the rich whose blessed key,
So are those errors that in thee are seen,
So are you to my thoughts as food to life,
So do our minutes hasten to their end,
So dost thou too, and therein dignified:
So either by thy picture or my love,
So far from home into my deeds to pry,
So far from variation or quick change?
So flatter I the swart-complexioned night,
So great a sum of sums yet canst not live?
So is it not with me as with that muse,
So is the time that keeps you as my chest
So long as youth and thou are of one date,
So love be thou, although to-day thou fill
So oft have I invoked thee for my muse,
So shall I live, supposing thou art true,
So shall those blots that do with me remain,
So should my papers (yellowed with their age)
So should that beauty which you hold in lease
So should the lines of life that life repair
So that eternal love in love's fresh case,
So that my self bring water for my stain,
So then I am not lame, poor, nor despised,
So then thou hast but lost the dregs of life,
So thou be good, slander doth but approve,
So thou through windows of thine age shalt see,
So thy great gift upon misprision growing,
So you o'er-green my bad, my good allow?
So your sweet hue, which methinks still doth stand
Some fresher stamp of the time-bettering days.
Some glory in their birth, some in their skill,
Some in their garments though new-fangled ill:
Some in their hawks and hounds, some in their horse.
Some in their wealth, some in their body's force,
Some say thy fault is youth, some wantonness,
Some say thy grace is youth and gentle sport,
Sometime all full with feasting on your sight,
Sometime too hot the eye of heaven shines,
Speak of my lameness, and I straight will halt:
Speak of the spring, and foison of the year,
Speaking of worth, what worth in you doth grow.
Spend'st thou thy fury on some worthless song,
Spending again what is already spent:
Steal from his figure, and no pace perceived,
Stealing away the treasure of his spring:
Stealing unseen to west with this disgrace:
Still constant in a wondrous excellence,
Stirred by a painted beauty to his verse,
Strikes each in each by mutual ordering;
Such cherubins as your sweet self resemble,
Such civil war is in my love and hate,
Such heavenly touches ne'er touched earthly faces.
Such seems your beauty still: three winters cold,
Suff'ring my friend for my sake to approve her.
Supposed as forfeit to a confined doom.
Sweet love renew thy force, be it not said
Sweet thief, whence didst thou steal thy sweet that smells,
Sweets with sweets war not, joy delights in joy:
Take all my comfort of thy worth and truth.
Take all my loves, my love, yea take them all,
Tan sacred beauty, blunt the sharp'st intents,
Ten times thy self were happier than thou art,
Th' imprisoned absence of your liberty,
Th' offender's sorrow lends but weak relief
Than niggard truth would willingly impart:
Than of your graces and your gifts to tell.
Than public means which public manners breeds.
Than that, which on thy humour doth depend.
Than this rich praise, that you alone, are you?
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate,
Than unswept stone, besmeared with sluttish time.
Than when her mournful hymns did hush the night,
Than when it hath my added praise beside.
Than you shall hear the surly sullen bell
That 'gainst thy self thou stick'st not to conspire,
That I in thy abundance am sufficed,
That I in your sweet thoughts would be forgot,
That I might see what the old world could say,
That Time will come and take my love away.
That am debarred the benefit of rest?
That barren tender of a poet's debt:
That by this separation I may give:
That did my ripe thoughts in my brain inhearse,
That did not better for my life provide,
That do not do the thing, they most do show,
That due of many, now is thine alone.
That due to thee which thou deserv'st alone:
That every word doth almost tell my name,
That god forbid, that made me first your slave,
That hath his windows glazed with thine eyes:
That having such a scope to show her pride,
That he shall never cut from memory
That heals the wound, and cures not the disgrace:
That heaven's air in this huge rondure hems.
That heavy Saturn laughed and leaped with him.
That in thy face sweet love should ever dwell,
That is my home of love, if I have ranged,
That it could so preposterously be stained,
That love is merchandized, whose rich esteeming,
That may express my love, or thy dear merit?
That millions of strange shadows on you tend?
That my steeled sense or changes right or wrong.
That on the ashes of his youth doth lie,
That over-goes my blunt invention quite,
That she hath thee is of my wailing chief,
That sin by him advantage should achieve,
That sometimes anger thrusts into his hide,
That thereby beauty's rose might never die,
That this huge stage presenteth nought but shows
That thou among the wastes of time must go,
That thou art blamed shall not be thy defect,
That thou consum'st thy self in single life?
That thou hast her it is not all my grief,
That thou in losing me, shalt win much glory:
That thou no form of thee hast left behind,
That time of year thou mayst in me behold,
That to his subject lends not some small glory,
That to my use it might unused stay
That tongue that tells the story of thy days,
That use is not forbidden usury,
That wear this world out to the ending doom.
That you are you, so dignifies his story.
That you for love speak well of me untrue,
That you your self being extant well might show,
That you your self may privilage your time
That's for thy self to breed another thee,
The age to come would say this poet lies,
The argument all bare is of more worth
The basest jewel will be well esteemed:
The basest weed outbraves his dignity:
The beast that bears me, tired with my woe,
The bloody spur cannot provoke him on,
The bounteous largess given thee to give?
The canker blooms have full as deep a dye,
The cause of this fair gift in me is wanting,
The charter of thy worth gives thee releasing:
The clear eye's moiety, and the dear heart's part.
The coward conquest of a wretch's knife,
The crow, or dove, it shapes them to your feature.
The dear respose for limbs with travel tired,
The dedicated words which writers use
The earth can have but earth, which is his due,
The earth can yield me but a common grave,
The eyes (fore duteous) now converted are
The first my thought, the other my desire,
The forward violet thus did I chide,
The guilty goddess of my harmful deeds,
The hand that writ it, for I love you so,
The humble as the proudest sail doth bear,
The injuries that to my self I do,
The lily I condemned for thy hand,
The living record of your memory.
The lovely gaze where every eye doth dwell
The mortal moon hath her eclipse endured,
The most sweet favour or deformed'st creature,
The mountain, or the sea, the day, or night:
The one by toil, the other to complain
The one doth shadow of your beauty show,
The ornament of beauty is suspect,
The other as your bounty doth appear,
The other two, slight air, and purging fire,
The owner's tongue doth publish every where.
The painful warrior famoused for fight,
The perfect ceremony of love's rite,
The prey of worms, my body being dead,
The region cloud hath masked him from me now.
The rich-proud cost of outworn buried age,
The right of sepulchres, were shorn away,
The rose looks fair, but fairer we it deem
The roses fearfully on thorns did stand,
The sad account of fore-bemoaned moan,
The scope and tenure of thy jealousy?
The second burthen of a former child!
The spirit of love, with a perpetual dulness:
The summer's flower is to the summer sweet,
The teeming autumn big with rich increase,
The very part was consecrate to thee,
The which he will not every hour survey,
The world will be thy widow and still weep,
The world will wail thee like a makeless wife,
The wrinkles which thy glass will truly show,
Thee have I not locked up in any chest,
Then beauteous niggard why dost thou abuse,
Then being asked, where all thy beauty lies,
Then bettered that the world may see my pleasure,
Then can I drown an eye (unused to flow)
Then can I grieve at grievances foregone,
Then can no horse with my desire keep pace,
Then churls their thoughts (although their eyes were kind)
Then hate me when thou wilt, if ever, now,
Then how when nature calls thee to be gone,
Then if for my love, thou my love receivest,
Then in the blazon of sweet beauty's best,
Then let not winter's ragged hand deface,
Then look I death my days should expiate.
Then need I not to fear the worst of wrongs,
Then of thy beauty do I question make
Then should I spur though mounted on the wind,
Then the conceit of this inconstant stay,
Then thou whose shadow shadows doth make bright
Then were not summer's distillation left
Then what could death do if thou shouldst depart,
Thence comes it that my name receives a brand,
Therefore are feasts so solemn and so rare,
Therefore desire (of perfect'st love being made)
Therefore in that I cannot know thy change,
Therefore my verse to constancy confined,
These blenches gave my heart another youth,
These poor rude lines of thy deceased lover:
These present-absent with swift motion slide.
These vacant leaves thy mind's imprint will bear,
They do but sweetly chide thee, who confounds
They had not skill enough your worth to sing:
They live unwooed, and unrespected fade,
They look into the beauty of thy mind,
They rightly do inherit heaven's graces,
They that have power to hurt, and will do none,
They were but sweet, but figures of delight:
Thine eyes, that taught the dumb on high to sing,
Thine own sweet argument, too excellent,
This silence for my sin you did impute,
Those children nursed, delivered from thy brain,
Those hours that with gentle work did frame
Those lines that I before have writ do lie,
Those parts of thee that the world's eye doth view,
Those pretty wrongs that liberty commits,
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Thou art more lovely and more temperate:
Thou art the grave where buried love doth live,
Thou art thy mother's glass and she in thee
Thou best of dearest, and mine only care,
Thou by thy dial's shady stealth mayst know,
Thou canst not (love) disgrace me half so ill,
Thou canst not vex me with inconstant mind,
Thou dost beguile the world, unbless some mother.
Thou dost love her, because thou know'st I love her,
Thou hast passed by the ambush of young days,
Thou mak'st faults graces, that to thee resort:
Thou mayst call thine, when thou from youth convertest,
Thou of thy self thy sweet self dost deceive,
Thou that art now the world's fresh ornament,
Thou truly fair, wert truly sympathized,
Though I (once gone) to all the world must die,
Though absence seemed my flame to qualify,
Though in our lives a separable spite,
Though thou repent, yet I have still the loss,
Though to it self, it only live and die,
Though yet heaven knows it is but as a tomb
Three April perfumes in three hot Junes burned,
Three beauteous springs to yellow autumn turned,
Three themes in one, which wondrous scope affords.
Through heavy sleep on sightless eyes doth stay!
Thus can my love excuse the slow offence,
Thus is his cheek the map of days outworn,
Thy adverse party is thy advocate,
Thy beauty's form in table of my heart,
Thy beauty, and thy years full well befits,
Thy bosom is endeared with all hearts,
Thy dial how thy precious minutes waste,
Thy edge should blunter be than appetite,
Thy glass will show thee how thy beauties wear,
Thy hungry eyes, even till they wink with fulness,
Thy looks should nothing thence, but sweetness tell.
Thy looks with me, thy heart in other place.
Thy love is better than high birth to me,
Thy merit hath my duty strongly knit;
Thy outward thus with outward praise is crowned,
Thy self away, art present still with me,
Thy self thou gav'st, thy own worth then not knowing,
Thy self thy foe, to thy sweet self too cruel:
Thy sweet beloved name no more shall dwell,
Thy worth the greater being wooed of time,
Thy youth's proud livery so gazed on now,
Tibey are the lords and owners of their faces,
Till I return of posting is no need.
Till nature as she wrought thee fell a-doting,
Till whatsoever star that guides my moving,
Time doth transfix the flourish set on youth,
Time's thievish progress to eternity.
Tired with all these for restful death I cry,
To bear greater wrong, than hate's known injury.
To change your day of youth to sullied night,
To critic and to flatterer stopped are:
To do more for me than mine own desert,
To dry the rain on my storm-beaten face,
To entertain the time with thoughts of love,
To every hymn that able spirit affords,
To find out shames and idle hours in me,
To find where your true image pictured lies,
To guard the lawful reasons on thy part,
To hideous winter and confounds him there,
To him that bears the strong offence's cross.
To know my shames and praises from your tongue,
To leap large lengths of miles when thou art gone,
To leave for nothing all thy sum of good:
To let base clouds o'ertake me in my way,
To linger out a purposed overthrow.
To live a second life on second head,
To make him much outlive a gilded tomb:
To make me tongue-tied speaking of your fame.
To make of monsters, and things indigest,
To make some special instant special-blest,
To mar the subject that before was well?
To march in ranks of better equipage:
To me fair friend you never can be old,
To new-found methods, and to compounds strange?
To one, of one, still such, and ever so.
To play the watchman ever for thy sake.
To say within thine own deep sunken eyes,
To see his active child do deeds of youth,
To set a form upon desired change,
To show me worthy of thy sweet respect,
To side this title is impanelled
To speak of that which gives thee all thy might?
To take a new acquaintance of thy mind.
To the clear day with thy much clearer light,
To the wide world and all her fading sweets:
To thee I send this written embassage
To this composed wonder of your frame,
To thy fair flower add the rank smell of weeds:
To tie up envy, evermore enlarged,
To truths translated, and for true things deemed.
To what it works in, like the dyer's hand:
To what you will, to you it doth belong,
To witness duty, not to show my wit.
To work my mind, when body's work's expired.
To-morrow see again, and do not kill
To-morrow sharpened in his former might.
Too base of thee to be remembered,
Unless thou take that honour from thy name:
Unless you would devise some virtuous lie,
Unlooked for joy in that I honour most;
Unmoved, cold, and to temptation slow:
Unthrifty loveliness why dost thou spend,
Until life's composition be recured,
Upon the farthest earth removed from thee,
Upon the hours, and times of your desire?
Upon those boughs which shake against the cold,
Upon thy part I can set down a story
Upon thy self thy beauty's legacy?
Upon thy side, against my self I'll fight,
Uttering bare truth, even so as foes commend.
Vaunt in their youthful sap, at height decrease,
Want nothing that the thought of hearts can mend:
Was it his spirit, by spirits taught to write,
Was it the proud full sail of his great verse,
Weary with toil, I haste me to my bed,
Weighs not the dust and injury of age,
Were an all-eating shame, and thriftless praise.
Were it not sinful then striving to mend,
Were it not thy sour leisure gave sweet leave,
What acceptable audit canst thou leave?
What can mine own praise to mine own self bring:
What freezings have I felt, what dark days seen!
What hast thou then more than thou hadst before?
What is your substance, whereof are you made,
What merit lived in me that you should love
What old December's bareness everywhere!
What strained touches rhetoric can lend,
What's in the brain that ink may character,
What's new to speak, what now to register,
Whate'er thy thoughts, or thy heart's workings be,
When I (perhaps) compounded am with clay,
When I am sometime absent from thy heart,
When I behold the violet past prime,
When I consider every thing that grows
When I do count the clock that tells the time,
When I have seen by Time's fell hand defaced
When I have seen such interchange of State,
When I have seen the hungry ocean gain
When I perceive that men as plants increase,
When I shall see thee frown on my defects,
When I was certain o'er incertainty,
When I was wont to greet it with my lays,
When all the breathers of this world are dead,
When as thy love hath cast his utmost sum,
When beauty lived and died as flowers do now,
When day's oppression is not eased by night,
When every private widow well may keep,
When forty winters shall besiege thy brow,
When hours have drained his blood and filled his brow
When in dead night thy fair imperfect shade,
When in disgrace with Fortune and men's eyes,
When in eternal lines to time thou grow'st,
When in the chronicle of wasted time,
When in the least of them my life hath end,
When lofty trees I see barren of leaves,
When love converted from the thing it was
When most I wink then do mine eyes best see,
When other petty griefs have done their spite,
When others would give life, and bring a tomb.
When proud-pied April (dressed in all his trim)
When rocks impregnable are not so stout,
When sometime lofty towers I see down-rased,
When sparkling stars twire not thou gild'st the even.
When summer's breath their masked buds discloses:
When swift extremity can seem but slow?
When that churl death my bones with dust shall cover
When that mine eye is famished for a look,
When thou art all the better part of me?
When thou reviewest this, thou dost review,
When thou shalt be disposed to set me light,
When thou thy self dost give invention light?
When to the sessions of sweet silent thought,
When to unseeing eyes thy shade shines so!
When wasteful war shall statues overturn,
When what I seek (my weary travel's end)
When yellow leaves, or none, or few do hang
When you entombed in men's eyes shall lie,
When you have bid your servant once adieu.
When your sweet issue your sweet form should bear.
Where all the treasure of thy lusty days;
Where art thou Muse that thou forget'st so long,
Where beauty's veil doth cover every blot,
Where thou art forced to break a twofold truth:
Where wasteful time debateth with decay
Where you may be, or your affairs suppose,
Wherein it finds a joy above the rest,
Whereon the stars in secret influence comment.
Whether we are mended, or whether better they,
Which I by lacking have supposed dead,
Which I new pay as if not paid before.
Which alters when it alteration finds,
Which bounteous gift thou shouldst in bounty cherish:
Which but to-day by feeding is allayed,
Which by and by black night doth take away,
Which erst from heat did canopy the herd
Which eyes not yet created shall o'er-read,
Which for memorial still with thee shall stay.
Which for their habitation chose out thee,
Which happies those that pay the willing loan;
Which hath not figured to thee my true spirit,
Which heavily he answers with a groan,
Which hides your life, and shows not half your parts:
Which husbandry in honour might uphold,
Which in my bosom's shop is hanging still,
Which in thy breast doth live, as thine in me,
Which labouring for invention bear amis
Which like a canker in the fragrant rose,
Which like a jewel (hung in ghastly night)
Which nightly gulls him with intelligence,
Which on thy soft check for complexion dwells,
Which parts the shore, where two contracted new,
Which shall be most my glory being dumb,
Which should example where your equal grew.
Which steals men's eyes and women's souls amazeth.
Which this (Time's pencil) or my pupil pen
Which though it alter not love's sole effect,
Which time and thoughts so sweetly doth deceive.
Which to repair should be thy chief desire:
Which vulgar scandal stamped upon my brow,
While comments of your praise richly compiled,
While he insults o'er dull and speechless tribes.
While shadows like to thee do mock my sight?
While thou dost breathe that pour'st into my verse,
Whilst I (my sovereign) watch the clock for you,
Whilst I alone did call upon thy aid,
Whilst I whom fortune of such triumph bars
Whilst he upon your soundless deep doth ride,
Whilst like a willing patient I will drink,
Whilst that this shadow doth such substance give,
Who all in one, one pleasing note do sing:
Who all their parts of me to thee did give,
Who even but now come back again assured,
Who for thy self art so unprovident.
Who heaven it self for ornament doth use,
Who is it that says most, which can say more,
Who lead thee in their riot even there
Who lets so fair a house fall to decay,
Who moving others, are themselves as stone,
Who plead for love, and look for recompense,
Who will believe my verse in time to come
Who with his fear is put beside his part,
Whose action is no stronger than a flower?
Whose fresh repair if now thou not renewest,
Whose influence is thine, and born of thee,
Whose strength's abundance weakens his own heart;
Why didst thou promise such a beauteous day,
Why is my verse so barren of new pride?
Why lov'st thou that which thou receiv'st not gladly,
Why should false painting imitate his cheek,
Why should he live, now nature bankrupt is,
Why should poor beauty indirectly seek,
Why with the time do I not glance aside
Why write I still all one, ever the same,
Will be a tattered weed of small worth held:
Will play the tyrants to the very same,
Will sourly leave her till he have prevailed?
Wishing me like to one more rich in hope,
With April's first-born flowers and all things rare,
With Time's injurious hand crushed and o'erworn,
With all triumphant splendour on my brow,
With beauty's treasure ere it be self-killed:
With lines and wrinkles, when his youthful morn
With means more blessed than my barren rhyme?
With mine own weakness being best acquainted,
With my love's picture then my eye doth feast,
With shifting change as is false women's fashion,
With sun and moon, with earth and sea's rich gems:
With ugly rack on his celestial face,
With virtuous wish would bear you living flowers,
With what I most enjoy contented least,
Within the gentle closure of my breast,
Within the knowledge of mine own desert,
Within thine own bud buriest thy content,
Without accusing you of injury.
Without all bail shall carry me away,
Without all ornament, it self and true,
Without this folly, age, and cold decay,
Without thy help, by me be borne alone.
Worthy perusal stand against thy sight,
Yet be most proud of that which I compile,
Yet doth it steal sweet hours from love's delight.
Yet in these thoughts my self almost despising,
Yet mortal looks adore his beauty still,
Yet nor the lays of birds, nor the sweet smell
Yet then my judgment knew no reason why,
Yet this abundant issue seemed to me
Yet this thy praise cannot be so thy praise,
Yet what of thee thy poet doth invent,
You are my all the world, and I must strive,
Your love and pity doth th' impression fill,
Your monument shall be my gentle verse,
Your name from hence immortal life shall have,
Your self again after your self's decease,
Your self to pardon of self-doing crime.
Your shallowest help will hold me up afloat,
additional cost, fee or expense, a copy of the etext in plain
author of the work, although tilde (~), asterisk (*) and
beated and chopt with tanned antiquity,
expense into plain ASCII, EBCDIC or equivalent form by the
if thou wouldst use the strength of all thy state!
intended by the author, and additional characters may be used
join with the spite of fortune, make me bow,
program that displays the etext (as is the case, for instance,
to indicate hypertext links; OR
underline (_) characters may be used to convey punctuation
with most word processors); OR
A SHEPHERD once found the whelp of a Wolf and brought it up, and
"'Tis not the Mouse I fear," said the Lion; "I resent his
"'Tis the simple manner," says Dodsley,[2] "in which the morals of
"Ah, you will have to remain there, my friend, until you become
"All these monuments which you see," said the Monkey, "are
"And how much more beautiful than you am I, who am decorated, not
"Blame not me, my good sir, but the winds, for I am by my own
"Defects").  Among other things, such Defects may take the form
"Father, what kind of bird is it?'  he replied, "To my certain
"Give me, I pray thee, a sting, that if any mortal shall approach
"Hardly," said the Horse, "can I resist kicking you with my
"He is dead, dear Mother; for just now a very huge beast with
"I have no objection, but you must excuse me for requiring you to
"It would be better for me to be sacrificed in the Temple than to
"Marriage of the Sun," is supposed to have reference to the
"My father surely was a high-mettled racer, and I am his own
"My name is Truth," she replied.  "And for what cause," he asked,
"Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to
"O you most detestable of animals! through a lying dream of my
"O you most perverse creatures, when I piped you would not dance,
"On my word, you are rightly served, for how could you for a
"Project").  Among other things, this means that no one owns a
"Since I cannot sleep," she said, "on account of your song which,
"Sirrah, last year you grossly insulted me."  "Indeed," bleated
"Swollen Fox" and of the "Frogs asking a King" were spoken by
"The Grapes are sour, and not ripe as I thought."
"The fable," says Professor K. O. Mueller, "originated in Greece
"The little one is the best runner of the two."  The Hound
"The master," he replied.  Then said the Wolf:  "May no friend of
"Tous les habiles gens conviennent que c'est un roman, et que les
"True," replied the Crane; "but I soar to the heights of heaven
"WHY SHOULD there always be this fear and slaughter between us?"
"We have waited for no purpose, for after all there is nothing to
"Well! I won't remain supperless, even though you refute every
"What a selfish Dog!"  said one of them to his companions; "he
"Who has taught you, my very excellent fellow, the art of
"Why should I, being of such an immense size and extending nearly
"Why should we be perpetually engaged in administering to your
"Why! I have only one; but that one is altogether a thoroughbred
"Why, you have surely already had a sufficient recompense, in
"Why, you lazy old fellow," cried several tongues at once, "how
"Woe be to us, that we should have fought and belabored ourselves
"Wolf! Wolf!"  and when his neighbors came to help him, laughed at
"Yes," said the Horse; "if any remains out of what I am now
"You drink of my well."  "No," exclaimed the Lamb, "I never yet
"You foolish old fellow! If you had as many brains in your head
"You have unrighteously taken that which was mine from me!"  To
"You ridiculed the idea of my ever being able to help you, not expecting
"You ungrateful fellow, you owe your life to me, and yet you
"You who have wished to revenge, even with death, the Prick of a
"because I am King:  and the second share, as a partner with you
"have you left the city to dwell alone here in the wilderness?"
"to be cast to the Lions" as the punishment for his imputed
'Mountain delivered of a Mouse,' produces the moral of his fable
(1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT
(Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris,
(Internet,  Bitnet, Compuserve, ATTMAIL or MCImail).
(Internet, Bitnet, Compuserve, ATTMAIL or MCImail).
(Three Pages)
(though published after his death), for the purpose of showing
(which in truth he did, but not suspected by the audience )
****   SMALL PRINT! FOR __ COMPLETE SHAKESPEARE ****
***** SMALL PRINT! for COMPLETE SHAKESPEARE *****
******
******
*********Preface********
******This file should be named shaks12.txt or shaks12.zip*****
*****This file should be named aesop11.txt or aesop11.zip******
*****This is the Project Gutenberg Etext of Aesop's Fables*****
****START**THE SMALL PRINT!**FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS**START****
***End of Project Gutenberg 10th Edition of Aesop's Fables***
**Etexts Readable By Both Humans and By Computers, Since 1971**
**Information prepared by the Project Gutenberg legal advisor**
**Information prepared by the Project Gutenberg legal advisor**
**Welcome To The World of Free Plain Vanilla Electronic Texts**
*BEFORE!* YOU USE OR READ THIS ETEXT
*EITHER*:
*END*THE SMALL PRINT! FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS*Ver.03.08.92*END*
*Project Gutenberg is proud to cooperate with The World Library*
*These Etexts Prepared By Hundreds of Volunteers and Donations*
*This Etext has certain copyright implications you should read!*
- by accident into a deep pool.  Being thus deprived of the means
1.  LICENSE
1.  Too many people say they are including SASLE's and aren't.
1327 A.D.  he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the
1609
1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the
1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions
1865.
2.  LIMITED WARRANTY; DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES
2.  Paper communication just takes too long when compared to the
3.  INDEMNITY: You will indemnify and hold the Project, its
3.  People request disks without specifying which kind of disks,
30 days of receiving it.  If you received this etext on a
4.  WHAT IF YOU *WANT* TO SEND MONEY EVEN IF YOU DON'T HAVE TO?
5700  College  Road
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri
A BALD KNIGHT, who wore a wig, went out to hunt.  A sudden puff
A BAT who fell upon the ground and was caught by a Weasel pleaded
A BEAR boasted very much of his philanthropy, saying that of all
A BEE from Mount Hymettus, the queen of the hive, ascended to
A BIRDCATCHER was about to sit down to a dinner of herbs when a
A BITCH, ready to whelp, earnestly begged a shepherd for a place
A BLIND MAN was accustomed to distinguishing different animals by
A BOY bathing in a river was in danger of being drowned.  He
A BOY put his hand into a pitcher full of filberts.  He grasped
A BOY stole a lesson-book from one of his schoolfellows and took
A BOY was hunting for locusts.  He had caught a goodly number,
A BOY was stung by a Nettle.  He ran home and told his Mother,
A BRAZIER had a little Dog, which was a great favorite with his
A BULL finding a lion's cub asleep gored him to death with his
A BULL was bitten by a Mouse and, angered by the wound, tried to
A BULL was striving with all his might to squeeze himself through
A BULL, escaping from a Lion, hid in a cave which some shepherds
A CARTER was driving a wagon along a country lane, when the
A CAT caught a Cock, and pondered how he might find a reasonable
A CAT fell in love with a handsome young man, and entreated Venus
A CAT, hearing that the Birds in a certain aviary were ailing
A CERTAIN HOUSE was overrun with Mice.  A Cat, discovering this,
A CERTAIN HUNTER, having snared a hare, placed it upon his
A CERTAIN MAN made a wooden image of Mercury and offered it for
A CERTAIN MAN, detained by a storm in his country house, first of
A CERTAIN poor widow had one solitary Sheep.  At shearing time,
A CERTAIN rich man bought in the market a Goose and a Swan.  He
A CHARCOAL-BURNER carried on his trade in his own house.  One day
A CHARGER, feeling the infirmities of age, was sent to work in a
A COBBLER unable to make a living by his trade and made desperate
A COCK, scratching for food for himself and his hens, found a
A CONTROVERSY prevailed among the beasts of the field as to which
A COTTAGER and his wife had a Hen that laid a golden egg every
A COUNTRY MOUSE invited a Town Mouse, an intimate friend, to pay
A CRAB said to her son, "Why do you walk so one-sided, my child?
A CRAB, forsaking the seashore, chose a neighboring green meadow
A CROW caught in a snare prayed to Apollo to release him, making
A CROW having stolen a bit of meat, perched in a tree and held it
A CROW in great want of food saw a Serpent asleep in a sunny
A CROW perishing with thirst saw a pitcher, and hoping to find
A CROW was jealous of the Raven, because he was considered a bird
A DOE blind in one eye was accustomed to graze as near to the
A DOE hard pressed by hunters sought refuge in a cave belonging
A DOG and a Cock being great friends, agreed to travel together.
A DOG lay in a manger, and by his growling and snapping prevented
A DOG used to run up quietly to the heels of everyone he met, and
A DOG, crossing a bridge over a stream with a piece of flesh in
A DOG, used to eating eggs, saw an Oyster and, opening his mouth
A DOVE shut up in a cage was boasting of the large number of
A FAMISHED FOX saw some clusters of ripe black grapes hanging
A FAMISHED WOLF was prowling about in the morning in search of
A FARMER placed nets on his newly-sown plowlands and caught a
A FARMER'S daughter was carrying her Pail of milk from the field
A FARMER, who bore a grudge against a Fox for robbing his poultry
A FATHER had a family of sons who were perpetually quarreling
A FATHER had one son and one daughter, the former remarkable for
A FATHER, being on the point of death, wished to be sure that his
A FIR-TREE said boastingly to the Bramble, "You are useful for
A FISHERMAN skilled in music took his flute and his nets to the
A FISHERMAN who lived on the produce of his nets, one day caught
A FISHERMAN, engaged in his calling, made a very successful cast
A FLEA settled upon the bare foot of a Wrestler and bit him,
A FLEA thus questioned an Ox:  "What ails you, that being so huge
A FLY bit the bare head of a Bald Man who, endeavoring to destroy
A FLY sat on the axle-tree of a chariot, and addressing the
A FOWLER caught a Partridge and was about to kill it.  The
A FOWLER, taking his bird-lime and his twigs, went out to catch
A FOX and a Monkey were traveling together on the same road.  As
A FOX caught in a trap escaped, but in so doing lost his tail.
A FOX entered into partnership with a Lion on the pretense of
A FOX entered the house of an actor and, rummaging through all
A FOX invited a Crane to supper and provided nothing for his
A FOX one day fell into a deep well and could find no means of
A FOX saw a Lion confined in a cage, and standing near him,
A FOX swimming across a rapid river was carried by the force of
A FOX was mounting a hedge when he lost his footing and caught
A FOX, running before the hounds, came across a Woodcutter
A FROG once upon a time came forth from his home in the marsh and
A Fox hearing these words said with a smile to the Bear, "Oh!
A GNAT came and said to a Lion, "I do not in the least fear you,
A GNAT settled on the horn of a Bull, and sat there a long time.
A GOATHERD had sought to bring back a stray goat to his flock.
A GOATHERD, driving his flock from their pasture at eventide,
A GREAT CITY was besieged, and its inhabitants were called
A GROOM used to spend whole days in currycombing and rubbing down
A HALF-FAMISHED JACKDAW seated himself on a fig-tree, which had
A HARE one day ridiculed the short feet and slow pace of the
A HARE pounced upon by an eagle sobbed very much and uttered
A HART, hard pressed in the chase, hid himself beneath the large
A HEAVY WAGON was being dragged along a country lane by a team of
A HEIFER saw an Ox hard at work harnessed to a plow, and
A HEN finding the eggs of a viper and carefully keeping them
A HERDSMAN tending his flock in a forest lost a Bull-calf from
A HORSE SOLDIER took the utmost pains with his charger.  As long
A HORSE, Ox, and Dog, driven to great straits by the cold, sought
A HORSE, proud of his fine trappings, met an Ass on the highway.
A HOUND having started a Hare on the hillside pursued her for
A HOUND started a Hare from his lair, but after a long run, gave
A HOUND, who in the days of his youth and strength had never
A HUNTER, not very bold, was searching for the tracks of a Lion.
A HUNTSMAN, returning with his dogs from the field, fell in by
A JACKDAW, seeing some Doves in a cote abundantly provided with
A KID standing on the roof of a house, out of harm's way, saw a
A KID, returning without protection from the pasture, was pursued
A KING, whose only son was fond of martial exercises, had a dream
A KITE, sick unto death, said to his mother:  "O Mother! do not
A LAMP, soaked with too much oil and flaring brightly, boasted
A LARK had made her nest in the early spring on the young green
A LION and a Bear seized a Kid at the same moment, and fought
A LION came across a Hare, who was fast asleep.  He was just in
A LION demanded the daughter of a woodcutter in marriage.  The
A LION entered a farmyard.  The Farmer, wishing to catch him,
A LION roaming by the seashore saw a Dolphin lift up its head out
A LION was awakened from sleep by a Mouse running over his face. Rising
A LION, entering the workshop of a smith, sought from the tools
A LION, fatigued by the heat of a summer's day, fell fast asleep
A LION, greatly desiring to capture a Bull, and yet afraid to
A LION, growing old, lay sick in his cave.  All the beasts came
A LION, roaming through a forest, trod upon a thorn.  Soon
A LION, unable from old age and infirmities to provide himself
A LION, worn out with years and powerless from disease, lay on
A MAN and a Lion traveled together through the forest.  They soon
A MAN and a Satyr once drank together in token of a bond of
A MAN came into a forest and asked the Trees to provide him a
A MAN committed a murder, and was pursued by the relations of the
A MAN had a Wife who made herself hated by all the members of his
A MAN had an Ass, and a Maltese Lapdog, a very great beauty.  The
A MAN had two Gamecocks in his poultry-yard.  One day by chance
A MAN had two daughters, the one married to a gardener, and the
A MAN had two dogs:  a Hound, trained to assist him in his sports,
A MAN once kept a Goat and an Ass.  The Goat, envying the Ass on
A MAN who had been bitten by a Dog went about in quest of someone
A MAN who had traveled in foreign lands boasted very much, on
A MAN wished to purchase an Ass, and agreed with its owner that
A MAN, very much annoyed with a Flea, caught him at last, and
A MIDDLE-AGED MAN, whose hair had begun to turn gray, courted two
A MILLER and his son were driving their Ass to a neighboring fair
A MISER sold all that he had and bought a lump of gold, which he
A MOLE, a creature blind from birth, once said to his Mother:  "I
A MONKEY once danced in an assembly of the Beasts, and so pleased
A MONKEY perched upon a lofty tree saw some Fishermen casting
A MOUNTAIN was once greatly agitated.  Loud groans and noises
A MOUSE who always lived on the land, by an unlucky chance formed
A MULE, frolicsome from lack of work and from too much corn,
A MULETEER set forth on a journey, driving before him an Ass and
A NIGHTINGALE, sitting aloft upon an oak and singing according to
A NUMBER of Flies were attracted to a jar of honey which had been
A PANTHER, by some mischance, fell into a pit.  The Shepherds
A PEACOCK spreading its gorgeous tail mocked a Crane that passed
A PEASANT found an Eagle captured in a trap, and much admiring
A PEASANT had in his garden an Apple-Tree which bore no fruit but
A PEDDLER drove his Ass to the seashore to buy salt.  His road
A PHILOSOPHER witnessed from the shore the shipwreck of a vessel,
A PIGEON, oppressed by excessive thirst, saw a goblet of water
A PRINCE had some Monkeys trained to dance.  Being naturally
A RAVEN saw a Swan and desired to secure for himself the same
A RICH MAN gave a great feast, to which he invited many friends
A RICH MAN lived near a Tanner, and not being able to bear the
A RICH NOBLEMAN once opened the theaters without charge to the
A RIVER carried down in its stream two Pots, one made of
A SAILOR, bound on a long voyage, took with him a Monkey to amuse
A SEAGULL having bolted down too large a fish, burst its deep
A SERPENT and an Eagle were struggling with each other in deadly
A SHEPHERD driving his Sheep to a wood, saw an oak of unusual
A SHEPHERD penning his sheep in the fold for the night was about
A SHEPHERD, keeping watch over his sheep near the shore, saw the
A SHEPHERD, watching his Ass feeding in a meadow, was alarmed all
A SHEPHERD-BOY, who watched a flock of sheep near a village,
A SHIPWRECKED MAN, having been cast upon a certain shore, slept
A SICK STAG lay down in a quiet corner of its pasture-ground.
A SNAKE, having made his hole close to the porch of a cottage,
A STAG asked a Sheep to lend him a measure of wheat, and said
A STAG overpowered by heat came to a spring to drink.  Seeing his
A STAG, roundly chased by the hounds and blinded by fear to the
A SWALLOW, returning from abroad and especially fond of dwelling
A THIEF came in the night to break into a house.  He brought with
A THIEF hired a room in a tavern and stayed a while in the hope
A THRUSH was feeding on a myrtle-tree and did not move from it
A TORTOISE, lazily basking in the sun, complained to the
A TRAVELER about to set out on a journey saw his Dog stand at the
A TRAVELER hired an Ass to convey him to a distant place.  The
A TRAVELER wearied from a long journey lay down, overcome with
A TROUBLESOME CROW seated herself on the back of a Sheep.  The
A TRUMPETER, bravely leading on the soldiers, was captured by the
A VERY HUNGRY FOX, seeing some bread and meat left by shepherds
A VERY LARGE OAK was uprooted by the wind and thrown across a
A VERY POOR MAN, a Carpenter by trade, had a wooden image of
A VERY SKILLFUL BOWMAN went to the mountains in search of game,
A VINE was luxuriant in the time of vintage with leaves and
A WALNUT TREE standing by the roadside bore an abundant crop of
A WASP seated himself upon the head of a Snake and, striking him
A WAYFARING MAN, traveling in the desert, met a woman standing
A WEASEL, inactive from age and infirmities, was not able to
A WIDOW who was fond of cleaning had two little maidens to wait
A WILD ASS and a Lion entered into an alliance so that they might
A WILD BOAR stood under a tree and rubbed his tusks against the
A WIZARD, sitting in the marketplace, was telling the fortunes of
A WOLF accused a Fox of theft, but the Fox entirely denied the
A WOLF coming out of a field of oats met a Horse and thus
A WOLF followed a flock of sheep for a long time and did not
A WOLF pursued a Lamb, which fled for refuge to a certain Temple.
A WOLF saw a Goat feeding at the summit of a steep precipice,
A WOLF who had a bone stuck in his throat hired a Crane, for a
A WOLF, having stolen a lamb from a fold, was carrying him off to
A WOLF, meeting a big well-fed Mastiff with a wooden collar about
A WOLF, passing by, saw some Shepherds in a hut eating a haunch
A WOLF, sorely wounded and bitten by dogs, lay sick and maimed in
A WOMAN possessed a Hen that gave her an egg every day.  She
A WORKMAN, felling wood by the side of a river, let his axe drop
A YOUNG FAWN once said to his Mother, "You are larger than a dog,
A YOUNG MAN, a great spendthrift, had run through all his
A YOUNG PIG was shut up in a fold-yard with a Goat and a Sheep.
A false tale often betrays itself.
A man is known by the company he keeps.
A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as
A willful man will have his way to his own hurt.
A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in
ABOUT PROJECT GUTENBERG-TM ETEXTS
ACCORDING to an ancient legend, the first man was made by
ALL the Goods were once driven out by the Ills from that common
AN AMARANTH planted in a garden near a Rose-Tree, thus addressed
AN ANT went to the bank of a river to quench its thirst, and
AN ARAB CAMEL-DRIVER, after completing the loading of his Camel,
AN ASS and a Cock were in a straw-yard together when a Lion,
AN ASS besought a Horse to spare him a small portion of his feed.
AN ASS climbed up to the roof of a building, and frisking about
AN ASS congratulated a Horse on being so ungrudgingly and
AN ASS feeding in a meadow saw a Wolf approaching to seize him,
AN ASS having heard some Grasshoppers chirping, was highly
AN ASS once carried through the streets of a city a famous wooden
AN ASS, being driven along a high road, suddenly started off and
AN ASS, belonging to an herb-seller who gave him too little food
AN ASS, carrying a load of wood, passed through a pond.  As he
AN ASS, having put on the Lion's skin, roamed about in the forest
AN ASTRONOMER used to go out at night to observe the stars.  One
AN EAGLE and a Fox formed an intimate friendship and decided to
AN EAGLE made her nest at the top of a lofty oak; a Cat, having
AN EAGLE sat on a lofty rock, watching the movements of a Hare
AN EAGLE stayed his flight and entreated a Lion to make an
AN EAGLE was once captured by a man, who immediately clipped his
AN EAGLE, flying down from his perch on a lofty rock, seized upon
AN EAGLE, overwhelmed with sorrow, sat upon the branches of a
AN OLD MAN was employed in cutting wood in the forest, and, in
AN OLD WOMAN found an empty jar which had lately been full of
AN OLD WOMAN having lost the use of her eyes, called in a
AN OWL, accustomed to feed at night and to sleep during the day,
AN OWL, in her wisdom, counseled the Birds that when the acorn
AN OX drinking at a pool trod on a brood of young frogs and
AND IS PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF
ARE MADE TO YOU AS TO THE ETEXT OR ANY MEDIUM IT MAY BE ON,
AS-IS".  NO OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
AT ONE TIME a very large and strong Wolf was born among the
AT ONE TIME the Horse had the plain entirely to himself.  Then a
Abstain and enjoy.
Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these
Acquaintance softens prejudices.
Aesop are interwoven with his fables that distinguishes him, and
Aesop for the immediate purpose of reconciling the inhabitants of
Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among
Aesop's Fables Translated by George Fyler Townsend
Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely
Aesop.  Although the honor thus claimed cannot be definitely
Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to
Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to
Aesopo ingentem statuam posuere Attici,
Afraid the dream should prove true, he built for his son a
After he told him his misfortune, Mercury plunged into the
All communication to Project Gutenberg should be carried out via
All donations should be made to "Project Gutenberg/IBC", and are
All donations should be made to "Project Gutenberg/IBC", and are
Among other things, he said that when he was at Rhodes he had
An Eagle, hovering near, heard her lamentation and demanded what
And thus his trick recoiled on him, for he now carried on his
And, lastly, the Owl, seeing an archer approach, predicted that
Andronicus the elder, and who wrote in the early part of the
Archdeacon Croxall as the introduction to his edition of Aesop.
As these thoughts passed through his mind, he met an Elephant and
As to every real and alleged Defect in this etext and any medium
Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in
Aside from this limited warranty, THIS ETEXT IS PROVIDED TO YOU
Ass gave the Lion the benefit of his greater speed.  When they
Ass home and put him in the straw-yard with his other Asses, upon
Ass only, and not his Shadow.  The Traveler asserted that he had,
Ass was left in a stable and had plenty of oats and hay to eat,
Ass, seeing him drawing a dungcart, thus derided him:  "Where, O
Ass."
Association / Illinois Benedictine College".
At last she turned away, hiding her disappointment and saying:
At last, having long waited in vain, he laid aside his flute, and
At nightfall they took shelter in a thick wood.  The Cock flying
Athenian.  The latter replied that he was, and that he was
Athens, the work of Lysippus, one of the most famous of Greek
Attempt not impossibilities.
Attmail:     internet!vmd.cso.uiuc.edu!HART
Avoid a remedy that is worse than the disease.
B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died
BE MADE FOR *ANY* ACCESS TO THIS MATERIAL.  YOU ARE ENCOURAGED!!
BREACH OF WARRANTY OR CONTRACT, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860.
Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam
Be on guard against men who can strike from a distance.
Benedictine College).  (Subscriptions to our paper newsletter go
Benedictine College).  (Subscriptions to our paper newsletter go
Benefits bestowed upon the evil-disposed increase their means of
Better poverty without care, than riches with.
Birds of a feather flock together.
Birds!"  This he said deceitfully; but the Crow, anxious to refute
Bitnet:      hart@uiucvmd or hart@uiucvmd.bitnet
Bracciolini, by the Rev.  William Shepherd.  Liverpool.  1801.
Brass Pot, "Pray keep at a distance and do not come near me, for
Buffoon had given a far more exact imitation, and clamored for
Bull."
But when the toothless, clawless Lion returned to repeat his
By using or reading any part of the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
CONTRACT, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL,
Cat, quite forgetting her present condition, started up from the
Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West-
Champaign, IL 61825
Change of habit cannot alter Nature.
Children are not to be blamed for the faults of their parents.
Cistercian monk, under the title of "Dialogus Miraculorum,"
Cobbler's antidote, commanding him to drink it on the promise of
Cock skulked away and hid himself in a quiet corner, while the
CompuServe:  72600,2026
Compuserve:  >internet:hart@vmd.cso.uiuc.edu
Contentment with our lot is an element of happiness.
Corrected EDITIONS of our etexts get a new NUMBER, shaks13.txt
Corrected EDITIONS of our etexts get a new NUMBER, xxxxx11.txt.
Counsel without help is useless.
Count the cost before you commit yourselves.
Country Mouse, being much delighted at the sight of such good
Countryman than to see the spectacle.  Both of the performers
Crow," he exclaimed, in the beauty of her shape and in the
Crow:  "My good Crow, your voice is right enough, but your wit is
D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction
DISCLAIMER
DISTRIBUTED OR USED COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD
DISTRIBUTION UNDER "PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm"
David Turner, Project Gutenberg
Defects.  Such person will give you, in his or its discretion, a
Deities of the forest.  Not long afterwards, as he ascended a
Despite these efforts, the Project's etexts and any medium they
Dictionnaire Historique.  Art.  Esope.
Do not attempt to hide things which cannot be hid.
Do not attempt too much at once.
Do not be in a hurry to change one evil for another.
Do nothing without a regard to the consequences.
Dog that bit you."  The Man who had been bitten laughed at this
Dog to get his larger piece from him.  He thus lost both:  that
Dolphin gladly consented to this request.  Not long afterwards
Dolphin saw the Monkey contending with the waves, and supposing
Dolphin then inquired if he knew the Piraeus (the famous harbor
Domini 1632.  The later investigations of a host of English and
Don't make much ado about nothing.
Doves, he returned to the Jackdaws.  They too, not recognizing
Drafted by CHARLES B. KRAMER, Attorney
Draught-Mule said, "How slow you are! Why do you not go faster?
Duplex libelli dos est:  quod risum movet,
EVERY MAN, according to an ancient legend, is born into the world
Each was so well pleased with his bargain that they made for some
Eagle let the bundle fall again.  Taking it up, the man returned
Eagle, "the faithful fulfillment of your promise to me?'  The Kite
East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations,
Elephant."
Email requests to:
Emperor Andronicus the Elder.  This brought him into immediate
Emperor Valentinian, and the latest poet of eminence in the
Episcopi:  alias quadripartitus apologeticus vocatus, in cujus
Equals make the best friends.
Et quod prudenti vitam consilio monet.
Every man for himself.
Every man should be content to mind his own business.
Every tale is not to be believed.
Everyone is more or less master of his own fate.
Evil companions bring more hurt than profit.
Evil tendencies are shown in early life.
Evil wishes, like chickens, come home to roost.
Example is more powerful than precept.
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
FOOTNOTES
FTP directly to the Project Gutenberg archives:
FTP directly to the Project Gutenberg archives:
Fables of Aesop examined.  By the Honorable Charles Boyle.
Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D.
Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was
Fables of Aesop.
Fables of Aesop.  During this long period these fables seem to
Fables.
Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the
Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et
Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.
Fair weather friends are not worth much.
False confidence often leads into danger.
Farmer and besought him to give them some water to drink.  They
Father, unwilling to grant, and yet afraid to refuse his request,
Fearing for their lives, the Mice kept themselves close in their
Files by the December 31, 2001.  [10,000 x 100,000,000=Trillion]
Files by the December 31, 2001.  [10,000 x 100,000,000=Trillion]
Fine feathers don't make fine birds.
Fir-Tree."
Flea a second time hopped upon his foot, he groaned and said, "O
For if you use your sting, it shall remain in the wound you make,
For these and other matters, please mail to:
Fox accumulated all that they had killed into one large heap and
Fox came in and heard these last words of the Wolf.  The Lion
Fox crept in and hid himself in a corner.  The huntsman soon came
Fox gobbled them up.
Fox heard the sound, and wishing to make a breakfast on him, came
Fox, envying him the honor, discovered a piece of meat lying in a
Foxes that being tailless was much more attractive, thus making
Frankfort, 1610.
Frog first of all led his friend the Mouse to the meadow where
Frog, being still fastened to the leg of the Mouse, was also
Frogs lying on the banks of the lake heard the noise of their
G.F.T.
GENCE OR UNDER STRICT LIABILITY, OR FOR BREACH OF WARRANTY OR
GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND
GET 0INDEX.GUT
GET INDEX and AAINDEX
GET NEW GUT for general information
GET NEW GUT for general information
Gaspard Bachet de Mezeriac, who declined the honor of being
German scholars have added very little to the facts given by M.
Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and
Goats you have had so long, it is plain also that if others came
Goddess, to console him, said, "But you far excel in beauty and
Guardian Deities of the forest if I could only find out who had
Happy is the man who learns from the misfortunes of others.
Hare timid, the Lion bold, the Wolf cruel, the Bull strong, the
Harm hatch, harm catch.
Harm seek.  harm find.
Having done so, they found to their surprise that the Hen
He asked a man felling oaks in the forest if he had seen any
He felt it, and being in doubt, said:  "I do not quite know
He found a serpent in the upper branches of the tree, and again
He greatly lamented his fate, saying, "Woe is me! that I, who can
He is not to be trusted as a friend who mistreats his own family.
He is wise who is warned by the misfortunes of others.
He met at the court of Croesus with Solon, Thales, and other
He paid no attention to their request, but gave the tree a second
He whistled and sounded his horn in vain; the straggler paid no
He who shares the danger ought to share the prize.
He-Goats were sorely displeased and made complaint that the
Hercules and the Wagoner
Hercules the poplar.  Minerva, wondering why they had preferred
Hercules! if you will not help me against a Flea, how can I hope
His companions came in great numbers to inquire after his health,
Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the
Horse proud, and the Ass patient.  Many of these fables are
Horse replied, "If oats had been the food of wolves, you would
Hypocritical speeches are easily seen through.
I assure you, sooner burst than successfully imitate the hugeness
I came! I do not often get such a chance as this.  I will take
I die I would ask of you one favor you will play me a tune to
I know full well.  It would not be safe to admit him to the
I lost the use of my eyes, I saw in my house various chattels and
I see no trace of any returning."
I see you I shall remember the loss of my tail, and whenever you
IF YOU DISTRIBUTE THIS ETEXT
ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE WITH PERMISSION.
IN THE WINTERTIME, a Dog curled up in as small a space as
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR
INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF
IS NEITHER SHAREWARE NOR PUBLIC DOMAIN. . .AND UNDER THE LIBRARY
If men had all they wished, they would be often ruined.
If words suffice not, blows must follow.
If you discover a Defect in this etext within 90 days of receiv-
If you had but touched me, my friend, you would have lost me, and
If you have an FTP program (or emulator), please
If you have an FTP program (or emulator), please:
If you received it electronically and it is incomplete, inaccu-
If you received this etext in a physical medium, and the medium
If you would like further information about World Library, Inc.
Illinois  Benedictine  College
Illinois Benedictine College unless via email.  This is for help
Image, to be placed in one of its Temples.  As he passed along,
In a change of government the poor change nothing beyond the name
In avoiding one evil, care must be taken not to fall into
In quarreling about the shadow we often lose the substance.
In serving the wicked, expect no reward, and be thankful if you
In this consists the superiority of the Fable over the Tale or
Information about Project Gutenberg (one page)
Information about Project Gutenberg (one page)
Information on contacting Project Gutenberg to get Etexts, and
Innkeeper dressed in a new and handsome coat and sitting before
Innkeeper, frightened lest he should be attacked, left his new
Innkeeper.  hearing his tale and believing what he said, became
Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a
Internet (72600.2026@compuserve.com); TEL: (212-254-5093)
Internet:    hart@vmd.cso.uiuc.edu
It bears no fruit, and is not of the least service to man."  The
It is absurd to ape our betters.
It is easy to kick a man that is down.
It is far more becoming to go straight forward."  The young Crab
It is wise to turn circumstances to good account.
It matters little if those who are inferior to us in merit should
It shows an evil disposition to take advantage of a friend in
It sometimes happens that one man has all the toil, and another
Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of
Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the
JUPITER DETERMINED, it is said, to create a sovereign over the
JUPITER ISSUED a proclamation to all the beasts of the forest and
James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College,
January, 1994  [Etext #100]
July, 1849.
Jupiter and the Monkey
Jupiter replied, "It is lest we should seem to covet the honor
Jupiter, "My daughter, you are rightly called wise; for unless
Jupiter, Neptune, Minerva, and Momus
Jupiter, delighted with the offering of honey, promised to give
Jupiter, disturbed by the noise of their croaking, inquired the
Jupiter, the Jackdaw also made his appearance in his many
Jupiter, the first bull by Neptune, and the first house by
Just as he was about to fly off, he made a buzzing noise, and
King, as soon as he heard the tale, ordered the Lion to be set
Kite, "I am much stronger than you are."  "Why, are you able to
LIFE OF AESOP
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
Lamb the Wolf's right to eat him.  He thus addressed him:
Latin prose, some of these fables.  This translation is the more
Lewis.  Oxford, 1846.
Library of the Future and Shakespeare CDROMS.  Project Gutenberg
Library of the Future is a TradeMark (TM) of World Library Inc.
Like will draw like.
Lion and the Bear saw him, but not being able to get up, said,
Lion devoured them.  After many of the beasts had thus
Lion on its bank and being fearfully afraid, climbed up a tree.
Lion replied:  "This statue was made by one of you men.  If we
Lion."
Lions knew how to erect statues, you would see the Man placed
Lisle, IL 60532-0900
Little liberties are great offenses.
Look before you leap.
Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by
MACHINE READABLE COPIES OF THIS ETEXT, SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES
MCImail:  ADDRESS TYPE: MCI / EMS: INTERNET / MBX: hart@vmd.cso.uiuc.edu
MERCURY ONCE DETERMINED to learn in what esteem he was held among
MGET GUT* for newsletters.
MGET GUT* for newsletters.
MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.
Man."  The traveler pointed to it and said:  "See there! How strong
Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the
Men of evil reputation, when they perform a good deed, fail to
Men often bear little grievances with less courage than they do
Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public
Mercury and the Sculptor
Mercury and the Workmen
Mercury appeared to him just as he hoped he would; and having
Mercury, before which he made offerings day by day, and begged
Mercury, pleased with his honesty, gave him the golden and silver
Messenger of the Gods, and author of all your gain."  The
Mezeriac.  The substantial truth of his statements has been
Michael S. Hart through the Project Gutenberg Association (the
Midnight, Central Time, of the last day of the stated month.  A
Might makes right.
Miller, I had indeed to go campaigning before, but I was barbed
Minerva because she had not contrived iron wheels in the
Minerva.  On the completion of their labors, a dispute arose as
Misfortune tests the sincerity of friends.
Misfortunes springing from ourselves are the hardest to bear.
Momus as judge, and to abide by his decision.  Momus, however,
Monkey, and all the crew were obliged to swim for their lives.  A
Mother followed in the crowd and violently beat her breast in
Mother fondles one and nurtures it with the greatest affection
Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and
Mouse with him.  The Frog enjoyed the water amazingly, and swam
Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias,
Mueller.  Vol.  i, p.  l9l.  London, Parker, 1858.
My apologies.
Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti.
NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE OR UNDER STRICT LIABILITY, OR FOR
Nature exceeds nurture.
Nec generi tribui sed virtuti gloriam.
Necessity is the mother of invention.
Necessity knows no law.
Nevelet (in a book we shall refer to hereafter), and are
No arguments will give courage to the coward.
No one can be a friend if you know not whether to trust or
No one truly forgets injuries in the presence of him who caused
Not long afterwards when someone passed by and observed the
Notoriety is often mistaken for fame.
OF THE FUTURE CONDITIONS OF THIS PRESENTATION. . .NO CHARGES MAY
ON A SUMMER DAY, when the great heat induced a general thirst
ONCE UPON A TIME a Wolf resolved to disguise his appearance in
ONCE UPON A TIME, when the Sun announced his intention to take a
ONE WINTER a Farmer found a Snake stiff and frozen with cold.  He
Oak said with a sigh, "I do not care about the blows of the axe
Old friends cannot with impunity be sacrificed for new ones.
Olive full of foliage, it settled upon its branches and broke
Olympus to present Jupiter some honey fresh from her combs.
On one occasion when the shepherd laid hold of him, he grunted
On the invitation of Croesus he fixed his residence at Sardis,
On this the truthful Traveler thought to himself, "If so great a
One of the bystanders said to him, "My good fellow, why do you
One story is good, till another is told.
Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M.
Our mere anticipations of life outrun its realities.
Oxen, turning round, thus addressed the wheels:  "Hullo there! why
Oxen.  The Axle-trees groaned and creaked terribly; whereupon the
Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus,
P. O. Box  2782
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
PREFACE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PUNITIVE OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE
Panther made this reply:  "I remember alike those who sought my
Partridge earnestly begged him to spare his life, saying, "Pray,
Partridges declared that they would dig around his vines and make
Patere honoris scirent ut cuncti viam;
Persuasion is better than Force.
Phalaris.
Phrygia, contend for the distinction of being the birthplace of
Physician to heal them, and made this bargain with him in the
Pisistratus; while the fable of the "Horse and Stag" was composed
Plane-Tree, interrupting him, said, "You ungrateful fellows! Do
Plane-Tree.  As they rested under its shade, one of the Travelers
Planudes, a learned monk of Constantinople, made a collection of
Please call them at 1-800-443-0238 or email julianc@netcom.com
Please give them our thanks for their Shakespeare cooperation!
Pleasure bought with pains, hurts.
Preface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to
Preface, p.  27.
Pride goes before destruction.
Prince fell down in a fainting fit.  A violent fever suddenly set
Project (and any other party you may receive this etext from as
Project Gutenberg
Project Gutenberg is dedicated to increasing the number of
RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND
ROAMING BY the mountainside at sundown, a Wolf saw his own shadow
Raven left the altars in the neighborhood where he picked up his
Robber made answer, "I only wish that you had helped me just now,
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC.,
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SOME BOYS, playing near a pond, saw a number of Frogs in the
SOME CRANES made their feeding grounds on some plowlands newly
SOME DOGS famished with hunger saw a number of cowhides steeping
SOME DOGS, finding the skin of a lion, began to tear it in pieces
SOME FISHERMEN were out trawling their nets.  Perceiving them to
SOME THIEVES broke into a house and found nothing but a Cock,
SOME TRAVELERS, journeying along the seashore, climbed to the
Samos and Athens to their respective rulers, Periander and
Say 'I,' not 'We' are undone."
Sculptor replied, "Well, if you will buy these, I'll fling you
Sea very calm and smooth, and longed to make a voyage with a view
See if I do not prick your neck with my sting."  The Draught-Mule
Seeing this, the man put a halter on him and led him back to his
Self-help is the best help.
Self-help is the best help.
Self-interest alone moves some men.
Send to:
Servumque collocarunt aeterna in basi:
Seven centuries elapsed before the next notice is found of the
Shakespeare
She made answer, "Because in former times, falsehood was with
She smiled, and said:  "I know full well, my son, that all you say
Sheep, "if I should bring you the draught, you would doubtless
Sheep, much against his will, carried her backward and forward
Shepherd boldly examined the beast, discovered the thorn, and
Shepherd, "Since you have taught me to steal, you must keep a
Shepherd, being imprisoned on a false accusation, was condemned
Shortly afterwards the Bull with his horns gored him as if he
Since unlike many other Project Gutenberg-tm etexts, this etext
Slow but steady wins the race.
Snake would bite him also, endeavored to make peace, and placed
So desiring two ends, he obtained neither.
Some men are of more consequence in their own eyes than in the
Some men underrate their best blessings.
Some states do not allow disclaimers of implied warranties or
Stag intruded into his domain and shared his pasture.  The Horse,
Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a
Stoop to conquer.
Stork, a bird of excellent character; and see how I love and
Straws show how the wind blows.
Swan instead of the Goose.  The Swan, threatened with death,
TEE KITES of olden times, as well as the Swans, had the privilege
THE ANTS were spending a fine winter's day drying grain collected
THE ASS and the Fox, having entered into partnership together for
THE BEASTS of the field and forest had a Lion as their king.  He
THE BEASTS of the forest gave a splendid entertainment at which
THE BIRDS waged war with the Beasts, and each were by turns the
THE CAMEL, when he saw the Bull adorned with horns, envied him
THE DOLPHINS and Whales waged a fierce war with each other.  When
THE FOX and the Leopard disputed which was the more beautiful of
THE FROGS, grieved at having no established Ruler, sent
THE GEESE and the Cranes were feeding in the same meadow, when a
THE GODS, according to an ancient legend, made choice of certain
THE HARES harangued the assembly, and argued that all should be
THE HARES waged war with the Eagles, and called upon the Foxes to
THE HARES, oppressed by their own exceeding timidity and weary of
THE LARK (according to an ancient legend) was created before the
THE LIFE and History of Aesop is involved, like that of Homer,
THE LION wearied Jupiter with his frequent complaints.  "It is
THE LION, the Fox and the Ass entered into an agreement to assist
THE MEMBERS of the Body rebelled against the Belly, and said,
THE MICE summoned a council to decide how they might best devise
THE MONKEY, it is said, has two young ones at each birth.  The
THE NORTH WIND and the Sun disputed as to which was the most
THE OAKS presented a complaint to Jupiter, saying, "We bear for
THE OLIVE-TREE ridiculed the Fig-Tree because, while she was
THE OXEN once upon a time sought to destroy the Butchers, who
THE PEACOCK made complaint to Juno that, while the nightingale
THE PIGEONS, terrified by the appearance of a Kite, called upon
THE POMEGRANATE and Apple-Tree disputed as to which was the most
THE PURCHASER of a black servant was persuaded that the color of
THE RIVERS joined together to complain to the Sea, saying, "Why
THE SHE-GOATS having obtained a beard by request to Jupiter, the
THE SONNETS
THE SWALLOW and the Crow had a contention about their plumage.
THE TALE, the Parable, and the Fable are all common and popular
THE WASPS and the Partridges, overcome with thirst, came to a
THE WEASELS and the Mice waged a perpetual war with each other,
THE WOLVES thus addressed the Sheepdogs:  "Why should you, who are
THE WOODCUTTER cut down a Mountain Oak and split it in pieces,
THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
THIS ETEXT IS OTHERWISE PROVIDED TO YOU "AS-IS".  NO OTHER
THREE BULLS for a long time pastured together.  A Lion lay in
TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.
TO GIVE IT AWAY TO ANYONE YOU LIKE, BUT NO CHARGES ARE ALLOWED!!
TO THE ETEXT OR ANY MEDIUM IT MAY BE ON, INCLUDING BUT NOT
TWO FROGS dwelt in the same pool.  When the pool dried up under
TWO FROGS were neighbors.  One inhabited a deep pond, far removed
TWO GAME COCKS were fiercely fighting for the mastery of the
TWO MEN were journeying together.  One of them picked up an axe
TWO MEN were traveling together, when a Bear suddenly met them on
TWO MEN, deadly enemies to each other, were sailing in the same
TWO MEN, one who always spoke the truth and the other who told
TWO MULES well-laden with packs were trudging along.  One carried
TWO SOLDIERS traveling together were set upon by a Robber.  The
TWO TRAVELERS, worn out by the heat of the summer's sun, laid
Terrified at the sight, he lifted his eyes and his hands to
The Aethiop
The Ant and the Dove
The Ants and the Grasshopper
The Apes and the Two Travelers
The Ass Carrying the Image
The Ass and His Driver
The Ass and His Masters
The Ass and His Purchaser
The Ass and His Shadow
The Ass and the Charger
The Ass and the Frogs
The Ass and the Grasshopper
The Ass and the Horse
The Ass and the Lapdog
The Ass and the Mule
The Ass and the Old Shepherd
The Ass and the Wolf
The Ass in the Lion's Skin
The Ass, being heavily laden, moved slowly out of the way.
The Ass, the Cock, and the Lion
The Ass, the Fox, and the Lion
The Astronomer
The Bald Knight
The Bald Man and the Fly
The Bat and the Weasels
The Bear and the Fox
The Bear and the Two Travelers
The Bee and Jupiter
The Belly and the Members
The Birdcatcher, the Partridge, and the Cock
The Birds gave no credence to these warning words, but considered
The Birds, the Beasts, and the Bat
The Bitch and Her Whelps
The Blind Man and the Whelp
The Boasting Traveler
The Bowman and Lion
The Boy Bathing
The Boy Hunting Locusts
The Boy and the Filberts
The Boy and the Nettles
The Boys and the Frogs
The Bramble answered:  'You poor creature, if you would only call
The Brazier and His Dog
The Brother and the Sister
The Buffoon and the Countryman
The Buffoon appeared alone upon the platform, without any
The Bull and the Calf
The Bull and the Goat
The Bull, the Lioness, and the Wild-Boar Hunter
The Camel
The Camel and Jupiter
The Camel and the Arab
The Cat and Venus
The Cat and the Birds
The Cat and the Cock
The Cat and the Mice
The Cat cunningly resolved to destroy this chance-made colony.
The Cat replied, "Although you abound in specious apologies, I
The Charcoal-Burner and the Fuller
The Charger and the Miller
The Cobbler Turned Doctor
The Cock and the Jewel
The Cock defended himself by saying that he did this for the
The Cock, suspecting his civilities, said:  "Sir, I wish you would
The Complete Works of William Shakespeare
The Crab and Its Mother
The Crab and the Fox
The Crow and Mercury
The Crow and the Pitcher
The Crow and the Raven
The Crow and the Serpent
The Crow and the Sheep
The Crow put an end to the dispute by saying, "Your feathers are
The Dancing Monkeys
The Doe and the Lion
The Dog and the Cook
The Dog and the Hare
The Dog and the Oyster
The Dog and the Shadow
The Dog in the Manger
The Dog's House
The Dog, the Cock, and the Fox
The Dogs and the Fox
The Dogs and the Hides
The Dolphin, indignant at these falsehoods, dipped the Monkey
The Dolphins, the Whales, and the Sprat
The Dove and the Crow
The Eagle and His Captor
The Eagle and the Arrow
The Eagle and the Fox
The Eagle and the Jackdaw
The Eagle and the Kite
The Eagle, the Cat, and the Wild Sow
The Farmer and His Sons
The Farmer and the Cranes
The Farmer and the Fox
The Farmer and the Snake
The Farmer and the Stork
The Farmer, beginning to be alarmed for his own safety, opened
The Father and His Sons
The Father and His Two Daughters
The Fawn and His Mother
The Fighting Cocks and the Eagle
The Fir-Tree and the Bramble
The Fisherman Piping
The Fisherman and His Nets
The Fisherman and the Little Fish
The Fishermen
The Fishermen after a while gave up fishing, and on going home to
The Flea and the Man
The Flea and the Ox
The Flea and the Wrestler
The Flies and the Honey-Pot
The Fly and the Draught-Mule
The Fowler and the Viper
The Fox Who Had Lost His Tail
The Fox and the Bramble
The Fox and the Crane
The Fox and the Crow
The Fox and the Goat
The Fox and the Grapes
The Fox and the Hedgehog
The Fox and the Leopard
The Fox and the Lion
The Fox and the Lion
The Fox and the Mask
The Fox and the Monkey
The Fox and the Monkey
The Fox and the Woodcutter
The Fox soon became jealous of the Lion carrying off the Lion's
The Frogs Asking for a King
The Frogs' Complaint Against the Sun
The Gamecocks and the Partridge
The Geese and the Cranes
The Gnat and the Bull
The Gnat and the Lion
The Gnat thus prevailed over the Lion, and, buzzing about in a
The Goal of Project Gutenberg is to Give Away One Trillion Etext
The Goal of Project Gutenberg is to Give Away One Trillion Etext
The Goat and the Ass
The Goat and the Goatherd
The Goat replied, "Why, you silly fellow, the horn will speak
The Goatherd and the Wild Goats
The Goods and the Ills
The Goods wafted themselves to heaven and asked for a righteous
The Grasshopper and the Owl
The Grasshopper, who was thirsty, and pleased with the praise of
The Hare and the Hound
The Hare and the Tortoise
The Hare, lying down by the wayside, fell fast asleep.  At last
The Hares and the Foxes
The Hares and the Frogs
The Hares and the Lions
The Hart and the Vine
The Hart, at the point of death, groaned:  "I am rightly served,
The Hawk and the Nightingale
The Hawk, the Kite, and the Pigeons
The Heifer and the Ox
The Hen and the Golden Eggs
The Hen and the Swallow
The Herdsman and the Lost Bull
The Horse and Groom
The Horse and His Rider
The Horse and the Ass
The Horse and the Stag
The Horse consented and allowed the man to mount him.  From that
The Hunter and the Horseman
The Hunter and the Woodman
The Huntsman and the Fisherman
The Image of Mercury and the Carpenter
The Jackdaw and the Doves
The Jackdaw and the Fox
The Kid and the Wolf
The Kid and the Wolf
The King of the Apes, enraged at hearing these truths, gave him
The King's Son and the Painted Lion
The Kingdom of the Lion
The Kites and the Swans
The Laborer and the Snake
The Lamb and the Wolf
The Lamp
The Lark Burying Her Father
The Lark and Her Young Ones
The Library of the Future Complete Works of William Shakespeare
The Lion and the Boar
The Lion and the Bull
The Lion and the Dolphin
The Lion and the Eagle
The Lion and the Fox
The Lion and the Hare
The Lion and the Mouse
The Lion and the Shepherd
The Lion and the Three Bulls
The Lion in Love
The Lion in a Farmyard
The Lion, Jupiter, and the Elephant
The Lion, the Bear, and the Fox
The Lion, the Fox, and the Ass
The Lion, the Mouse, and the Fox
The Lion, the Wolf, and the Fox
The Lioness
The Man Bitten by a Dog
The Man and His Two Sweethearts
The Man and His Wife
The Man and the Lion
The Man and the Satyr
The Man, the Horse, the Ox, and the Dog
The Manslayer
The Master and His Dogs
The Mice and the Weasels
The Mice in Council
The Milk-Woman and Her Pail
The Miller, His Son, and Their Ass
The Mischievous Dog
The Miser
The Mole and His Mother
The Monkey and the Camel
The Monkey and the Dolphin
The Monkey and the Fishermen
The Monkeys and Their Mother
The Mother and the Wolf
The Mountain in Labor
The Mouse and the Bull
The Mouse, the Frog, and the Hawk
The Mule
The Mule carrying the treasure walked with head erect, as if
The Mule which had been robbed and wounded bewailed his
The Mules and the Robbers
The North Wind and the Sun
The Oak and the Reeds
The Oak and the Woodcutters
The Oaks and Jupiter
The Old Hound
The Old Lion
The Old Man and Death
The Old Woman and the Physician
The Old Woman and the Wine-Jar
The Old Woman, standing up in the Court, argued:  "This man here
The Olive-Tree and the Fig-Tree
The One-Eyed Doe
The Owl and the Birds
The Owl next advised them to pluck up the seed of the flax, which
The Ox and the Frog
The Oxen and the Axle-Trees
The Oxen and the Butchers
The Panther and the Shepherds
The Partridge and the Fowler
The Peacock and Juno
The Peacock and the Crane
The Peasant and the Apple-Tree
The Peasant and the Eagle
The Philosopher, the Ants, and Mercury
The Piglet, the Sheep, and the Goat
The Playful Ass
The Pomegranate, Apple-Tree, and Bramble
The Project gratefully accepts contributions in money, time,
The Prophet
The Quack Frog
The Raven and the Swan
The Rich Man and the Tanner
The Rivers and the Sea
The Rose and the Amaranth
The Salt Merchant and His Ass
The Sea, perceiving that they intended to throw the blame on him,
The Seagull and the Kite
The Seaside Travelers
The Seller of Images
The Serpent and the Eagle
The She-Goats and Their Beards
The Shepherd and the Dog
The Shepherd and the Sea
The Shepherd and the Sheep
The Shepherd and the Wolf
The Shepherd's Boy and the Wolf
The Shepherd-boy, now really alarmed, shouted in an agony of
The Shipwrecked Man and the Sea
The Sick Kite
The Sick Lion
The Sick Stag
The Snake was quickly revived by the warmth, and resuming its
The Sparrow and the Hare
The Spendthrift and the Swallow
The Stag at the Pool
The Stag in the Ox-Stall
The Stag, the Wolf, and the Sheep
The Swallow and the Crow
The Swallow, the Serpent, and the Court of Justice
The Swan and the Goose
The Swollen Fox
The Thief and His Mother
The Thief and the Housedog
The Thief and the Innkeeper
The Thief laid hold of his coat and entreated him to stop,
The Thieves and the Cock
The Thirsty Pigeon
The Three Tradesmen
The Thrush and the Fowler
The Tortoise and the Eagle
The Town Mouse and the Country Mouse
The Traveler and Fortune
The Traveler and His Dog
The Travelers and the Plane-Tree
The Trees Under the Protection of the Gods
The Trees and the Axe
The Trumpeter Taken Prisoner
The Two Bags
The Two Dogs
The Two Frogs
The Two Frogs
The Two Men Who Were Enemies
The Two Pots
The Two Soldiers and the Robber
The Two Travelers and the Axe
The Vain Jackdaw
The Vine and the Goat
The Viper and the File
The Walnut-Tree
The Wasp and the Snake
The Wasps, the Partridges, and the Farmer
The Weasel and the Mice
The Widow and Her Little Maidens
The Widow and the Sheep
The Wild Ass and the Lion
The Wild Boar and the Fox
The Wolf and the Crane
The Wolf and the Fox
The Wolf and the Goat
The Wolf and the Horse
The Wolf and the Housedog
The Wolf and the Lamb
The Wolf and the Lion
The Wolf and the Lion
The Wolf and the Sheep
The Wolf and the Shepherd
The Wolf and the Shepherds
The Wolf called out to him and said, "The Priest will slay you in
The Wolf in Sheep's Clothing
The Wolf, looking up, said, "Sirrah! I hear thee:  yet it is not
The Wolf, the Fox, and the Ape
The Wolf, with a lack of sense proportioned to his enormous size,
The Wolves and the Sheep
The Wolves and the Sheepdogs
The Woman and Her Hen
The Woodcutter advised him to take shelter in his own hut, so the
The Workman claimed it and expressed his joy at its recovery.
The best intentions will not always ensure success.
The construction of a fable involves a minute attention to (1)
The continual observance of this twofold aim creates the charm,
The desire for imaginary benefits often involves the loss of
The dishonest, if they act honestly, get no credit.
The eggs, allowing for all mishaps, will produce two hundred and
The end of life was reserved for the Dog, wherefore the old man
The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop
The fables were in the first instance only narrated by Aesop, and
The following are the sources from which the present translation
The gift of a friend?'
The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the
The greatest kindness will not bind the ungrateful.
The hero is brave in deeds as well as words.
The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it
The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into
The least outlay is not always the greatest gain.
The loiterer often blames delay on his more active friend.
The memory of a good deed lives.
The more honor the more danger.
The official release date of all Project Gutenberg Etexts is at
The safeguards of virtue are hateful to those with evil
The value is in the worth, not in the number.
There is no believing a liar, even when he speaks the truth.
Thereafter, feeling his life a burden from the shame and ridicule
These fables, again, were among the books brought into an
These few facts are all that can be relied on with any degree of
These terms of praise, it must be confessed, cannot be bestowed
They are not wise who give to themselves the credit due to
They quickly agreed to exchange the produce of their day's sport.
They tell us that we could get sued if there is something wrong
They were first brought to light, after a patient search and
They who act without sufficient thought, will often fall into
This "Small Print!" by Charles B. Kramer, Attorney
This "small print" statement also tells you how to distribute
This PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext, like most PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in
This entertaining sight brought the people in crowds to laugh at
This etext may contain a "Defect" in the form of incomplete,
This inferiority of some to others is sufficiently accounted for
This is ten thousand titles each to one hundred million readers,
This is ten thousand titles each to one hundred million readers.
This is the 100th Etext file presented by Project Gutenberg, and
This life by Planudes contains, however, so small an amount of
Those who assume a character which does not belong to them, only
Those who seek to please everybody please nobody.
Those who suffer most cry out the least.
Time and place often give the advantage to the weak over the
To carry out her design, she climbed to the nest of the Eagle,
To create these etexts, the Project expends considerable efforts
To this the Crow replied, "I despise the weak and yield to the
Tortoise, who replied, laughing:  "Though you be swift as the
Traveler stopped to rest, and sought shelter from the heat under
Truth and the Traveler
Try before you trust.
Two blacks do not make one white.
Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived
Union is strength.
United States copyright on or for this work, so the Project (and
Use serves to overcome dread.
VERSIONS based on separate sources get new LETTER, shaks10a.txt
VERSIONS based on separate sources get new LETTER, xxxxx10a.txt.
Various public performers contended for the prize.  Among them
Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of
Vavassor,[15] a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ARE MADE TO YOU AS
WHAT IF YOU *WANT* TO SEND MONEY EVEN IF YOU DON'T HAVE TO?
WHEN A FOX who had never yet seen a Lion, fell in with him by
WHEN MAN first saw the Camel, he was so frightened at his vast
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WOLF, meeting with a Lamb astray from the fold, resolved not to
WRITE TO US! We can be reached at:
We had better bear our troubles bravely than try to escape them.
We must make friends in prosperity if we would have their help in
We need your donations more than ever!
We need your donations more than ever!
We produce about one million dollars for each hour we work.  One
We produce about two million dollars for each hour we work.  The
We would prefer to send you this information by email
We would strongly prefer to send you this information by email
Weasel said that he had a special hostility to mice.  The Bat
Western Empire, has handed down some of these fables in verse,
What is most truly valuable is often underrated.
What's bred in the bone will stick to the flesh.
Whatever you do, do with all your might.
When all other email fails try our Michael S. Hart, Executive Director:
When each had fully stated his case the Ape announced this
When he saw them leaping about in the net upon the rock he said:
When its head was knocked off, out came a stream of gold, which
When she saw that she could get no redress and that her words
When the Crane had extracted the bone and demanded the promised
When the Fox approached the tree, the Dog sprang out and caught
While the Sparrow was thus speaking, a hawk suddenly seized him
While the two were reclining in their chamber, Venus wishing to
Who will wake you to your daily tasks or tell you when it is time
Why is this "small print" statement here?  You know: lawyers.
Why, you two fellows are better able to carry the poor beast than
Wolf passing by and immediately began to taunt and revile him.
Wolf should come, we will kill him."  The Wolf, hearing these
Wolf was at once taken and flayed; whereon the Fox, turning to
Woodcutter:  whereon he called to him and reproached him, saying,
Workman seized it greedily, and declared that truly it was the
Xanthus and Jadmon, the latter of whom gave him his liberty as a
YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
Yielding up her last breath, she gasped forth this lament:  "O
You agree that if you distribute one or more copies of this
You agree that if you distribute this etext or a copy of it to
Youth's first duty is reverence to parents.
Zeal should not outrun discretion.
["Small Print" V.12.08.93]
[10] Both these publications are in the British Museum, and are
[11] Fables may possibly have been not entirely unknown to the
[12] Post-medieval Preachers, by S. Baring-Gould.  Rivingtons,
[13] For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio
[14] Professor Theodore Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii.
[15] Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was
[16] The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the
[17] Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting
[18] See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of
[19] Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and
[1]  Only give exact copies of it.  Among other things, this re-
[1] A History of the Literature of Ancient Greece, by K.  O.
[1] M. Bayle thus characterises this Life of Aesop by Planudes,
[1] you may not read or use the etext, and [2] you will receive
[2]  Honor the terms and conditions applicable to distributors
[2] Select Fables of Aesop, and other Fabulists.  In three books,
[3]  Pay a trademark license fee of 20% (twenty percent) of the
[3] Some of these fables had, no doubt, in the first instance, a
[4] Hesiod.  Opera et Dies, verse 202.
[5] Aeschylus.  Fragment of the Myrmidons.  Aeschylus speaks of
[6] Fragment.  38, ed.  Gaisford.  See also Mueller's History of
[7] M. Bayle has well put this in his account of Aesop.  "Il n'y a
[8] Plato in Ph2done.
[9] Apologos en! misit tibi
[Mac users, do NOT point and click. . .type]
a Mule, both well laden.  The Ass, as long as he traveled along
a PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext) disclaims all liability to you for
a Wild Sow, with her young, took shelter in a hollow at its foot.
a bug in it that scrambles the date [tried to fix and failed] a
a cock."  Jupiter replied, "Why do you blame me without a cause? I
a covering of hides; and nothing so good as leather."
a dead body.  When he was quite gone, the other Traveler
a defense; why, then, O Mother! do the hounds frighten you so?"
a double allowance of barley.  From that day the Hen became fat
a feast, and there is always much food remaining; come and sup
a goat, she suddenly seized a piece of the flesh, and carried it,
a great favorite with his master, who often fondled him and
a heavily armed soldier mounted the Horse, and riding him to the
a lamb and carried him aloft in his talons.  A Jackdaw, who
a leaf and let it fall into the stream close to her.  The Ant
a little pleasure we have destroyed ourselves."
a most appropriate subject for your falsehoods, as I am sure none
a narrow passage which led to his stall.  A young Calf came up,
a proverb, "The Phrygian has spoken better than all."
a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it on request within
a reward.  The Cobbler, under the fear of death, confessed that
a single man of your troop.  I have no arms, and carry nothing
a single small Fish as the result of his day's labor.  The Fish,
a small portion, that he might carry home the rest; but the Mule
a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend
a vow to offer some frankincense at his shrine.  But when rescued
a word of salutation to his host, who had not given him any cause
able to eat afforded the Fox much amusement.  The Crane, in his
about 300 B.C., is said to have made the first collection of
about a hundred and fifty of these fables.  Little is known of
about his master as he had seen the Lapdog do, but he broke the
about, bit the Crow with a mortal wound.  In the agony of death,
about, so that the Partridge became grievously troubled and
above disclaimers, exclusions and limitations may not apply to
absurdites grossieres qui l'on y trouve le rendent indigne de
accept the following terms, conditions and disclaimers.  If you
accommodate him.
accomplish for your own benefit, and for my master's injury."
accord, incur destruction and trust yourself in the house of your
accordance with his own nature and powers.  The Fox discovered
according to my deserts.  If I had only been willing to assist
account of his greater abundance of food, said, "How shamefully
acknowledged as King of all the collected beasts?'  While he was
act sincerely by me, and show yourself in your true colors.  If
addressed him:  "Butt away as much as you will.  I have no fear of
addressed him:  "I would advise you to go into that field.  It is
addressed himself to a File, and asked of him the favor of a
admit a wolf into the fold?'
admit any interference from you in our affairs."
admitted him into the cote, they found that he made more havoc
admonition against the power of flattery.  There is no need of a
adulthood, proceeded to steal things of still greater value.  At
adversity.
advice and said, "Why? If I should do so, it would be as if I
advice without perceiving the presence of the adviser.  Thus the
advice," his companion replied.  "Never travel with a friend who
advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion and
afraid of a tiny gnat, I will no more complain, nor wish myself
afraid of both.  The Lion cheerfully assented to the proposal.
after a good day's sport, he always gave the Housedog a large
after a while taught it to steal lambs from the neighboring
after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the
after his buffetings with the deep.  After a while he awoke, and
after his death, took their spades and mattocks and carefully dug
after the nuptials, the Eagle said, "Fly off and bring me back
after us, you would in the same manner prefer them to ourselves."
after warning him that he would repent his request, caused him to
after, he went to the daughter who had married the tilemaker, and
afterward he came up to a Shepherd and fawned upon him, wagging
afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on
afterwards a birdcatcher came and stood under the tree, and laid
afterwards the Bat again fell to the ground and was caught by
afterwards, finding her words were true, they wondered at her
again caught in a snare, he passed by Apollo and made the same
again in want of dates, and therefore looks quiet."
again to the inn.
again.  The Eagle took flight, and pouncing upon a hare, brought
against the injustice of Providence, which would for the sake of
against the intended mischief.  And, lastly, he inveighed against
against the signboard, jarring herself terribly.  Having broken
against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The
ages, the position of the first of moralists.[7]
agreed to assist the Wild Ass with his strength, while the Wild
aimed at my roots, but I do grieve at being torn in pieces by
air, brought back the shabbiest possible mouse, stinking from the
alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at
alike to all, but singly, and separately; and one by one to those
alive, you would soon find out that his claws were stronger than
all countries.
all killed his sheep, and then his goats, for the maintenance of
all other men, but you destroy the clothes of him who feeds you."
all others' rights are protected, I alone should suffer wrong."
all poisons, and obtained a great name for himself by long-winded
all present themselves before him, when he would himself choose
all the profit.
all the time he was speaking, to the hut where the Fox lay
all the young fellows will propose to me, but I will toss my head
all these things, changed his mind, and commiserated the Horse.
all very well in the spring, but mine protect me against the
all your locusts too!"
all, beginning with yourself?'
all.  He first blamed the work of Neptune because he had not made
alliance being formed between them.  One very cold wintry day, as
alliance with him to their mutual advantage.  The Lion replied,
alone and terribly dejected.  He inquired of her, "Who art thou?"
alone challenged him to combat.  The Bowman immediately shot out
along a pool and twittering gaily.  He supposed that summer had
along with a burning cinder, to her nest.  A strong breeze soon
alternatively give you a second opportunity to receive it
although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as
altogether contradictory and unreasonable; for when I paid you
altogether deficient in spirit, he assumed such boldness as to
always fought on the side which he felt was the strongest.  When
am sure than I can see, Mother!"  In the desire to prove to him
am, and I will undertake to find some favorable opportunity of
am."
ambassadorial missions, undertaken at the command of Croesus, was
ambassadors to Jupiter entreating for a King.  Perceiving their
ambush in the hope of making them his prey, but was afraid to
amity.  The Hare said, "Oh, how I have longed to see this day, in
among the beasts, a Lion and a Boar came at the same moment to a
among themselves.  When he failed to heal their disputes by his
an a woman in her quarrels.  I repeat that I am altogether more
an acre in length, be afraid of the Lion? Ought I not to be
an arrow and said to the Lion:  "I send thee my messenger, that
an axe."  They had not gone far before they saw the owner of the
an ill-favored and contemptible insect who delights in sucking
an intimate acquaintance with a Frog, who lived for the most part
an old man, said, "Let us cease lamenting, my mates, for, as it
and
and
and
and
and I do believe you, Fox, to have stolen what you so stoutly
and Juno.  When the sum at which they were valued was named, he
and a Housedog, taught to watch the house.  When he returned home
and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS.
and a third blow with his axe.  When he reached the hollow of the
and accounts for the universal favor, of the fables of Aesop.
and acquaintances.  His Dog availed himself of the occasion to
and aghast, stood looking at the wagon, and did nothing but utter
and amused himself by frightening all the foolish animals he met
and as the Traveler and the owner of the Ass both claimed it, a
and attack us before we have done any harm.  If you would only
and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables
and besides, I by no means wish to come near you."
and breaking its horn, begged the Goat not to tell his master.
and captured a great haul of fish.  He managed by a skillful
and care, but hates and neglects the other.  It happened once
and citizens of great renown."  The Fox replied, "You have chosen
and decreed that henceforth the Ills should visit the earth in
and downs of fortune."
and drew up conditions for a universal league, in which the Wolf
and drove him for the third time to the coast, where he bought a
and each one helped himself to a share of the food which had been
and editing by those who wish to do so.  To be sure you have an
and enjoy its contents at his leisure.  The Fox, unable even to
and exclaimed:  "Woe to me a stranger! that in this place where
and expelled him from the mansions of Olympus.
and helpless, were roasted in their nest and dropped down dead at
and her kittens.
and if you rid me of these which are already satiated, others
and immediately pretended to be lame.  The Wolf, coming up,
and jest, beneath the fiction of an occurrence happening among
and killed him.  The Hare was comforted in her death, and
and killing the tree.  But finding the Fig-Tree denuded of
and later than the era of Aesop, rightfully bears his name,
and lay down in a dark corner.  A Mouse, supposing him to be
and learning the reason of his doing so, said to him, "You are
and leave us as we are."
and lift up my voice to the stars, while you walk below, like a
and live with us as brothers should? We differ from you in one
and make his meal on him.  The Bull, on approaching the Lion's
and not separating before one had well beaten the other.  He then
and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons
and offered to go before and show him the way by which he could
and ordered them to break it in pieces.  They tried with all
and pointed out the prey; the Lion sprang on it and seized it.
and preserved his life by his melody.
and refuse them every one."  At this moment she tossed her head in
and said to him, "O thou most base fellow? how can I believe
and said, "Destruction is preparing for you, and for me too,
and said, "It was not my fault.  master:  my spirit was as good as
and said, "What would you do if you had to live here always as we
and seeing the Hart, shot an arrow from his bow and struck it.
and sent a second deputation to Jupiter to pray that he would set
and sleek, and never once laid another egg.
and slew a larger number of them in one day than the Kite could
and squeaked and resisted violently.  The Sheep and the Goat
and still others after them.  A very old Mouse, who had escaped
and stood under the branches, saying how earnestly he desired to
and strong, you submit to the wrongs you receive from men and
and supperless, so contrary to his wont.  He replied:  "Why,
and swifter, and more used to running, and you have your horns as
and that all his goods were being stolen.  He sighed heavily and
and that the herbage was most tender.  She replied, "No, my
and the Kid was dancing, some hounds hearing the sound ran up and
and the Lamb, the Panther and the Kid, the Tiger and the Stag,
and the Sow, terrified by the Eagle, did not dare to go out from
and the founder of this class of writing, which has ever since
and then you will die from the loss of it."
and there hatched seven young birds.  A Serpent gliding past the
and therefore man in his middle age is fond of work, devoted to
and to the crow, unfavorable auguries.  These are all contented
and too much work made a petition to Jupiter to be released from
and variety of his horns, but felt angry with himself for having
and waking him from his slumber thus addressed him:  "Good Sir,
and was employed by that monarch in various difficult and
and when he inquired how she had got on and how the servants had
and when the trumpet summoned him to his standard, the Soldier
and while they eat the mutton throw only the bones to you.  If
and wished that he himself could obtain the same honors.  He went
and with men.  I envy you your beauty and your perfume."  The Rose
and would not permit the shepherd to approach.
and you for dry weather, with which of the two am I to join my
animals he was the most tender in his regard for man, for he had
animals of the field, the birds of the air, the trees of the
announced to him that the doors of his house had been broken open
another King.  Jupiter, displeased with all their complaints,
another Weasel, whom he likewise entreated not to eat him.  The
another neighbor purchased him and allowed his feathers to grow
another.
answer:  "You have only to thank yourselves for the misfortunes to
answered him:  "We indeed wish you well, but the danger is not
answering birds?'  The Birdcatcher spared his life, and determined
any danger, but supposing that on the morrow they would find him
any person who invented a new amusement for the occasion.
any wound."
anyone, you will indemnify and hold the Project, its officers,
anywhere near him as to that, there were in Rhodes many persons
apparatus or confederates, and the very sense of expectation
appeared on the stage.  The Buffoon grunted and squeaked away
application.
apply to you, and you may have other legal rights.
appointed day arrived, and the birds had assembled before
appointed, and seeing the preparations for so grand an
approach him.  Soon afterwards, observing that he was an animal
are a friend whom I would love to hear enjoying good eating."  The
are not only blind, but that you have lost your sense of smell.
are not yet even within sight."
are occupied with one short narrative, from which the moral
are the most continually in peril of the axe."  Jupiter made
are times when the small and lowly are the strongest to do
are unable to heal your own lame gait and wrinkled skin?'
army to command them, and that they were exposed to dangers from
arose, and the Lamp was immediately extinguished.  Its owner lit
arriving at home they prepared to kill the Cock, who thus pleaded
as I can hire, and will get in the harvest."  The Lark on hearing
as a king could be.  During his reign he made a royal
as he could.  The shepherd, seeing what had happened, ran up and
as he remembered.  Demetrius Phalereus, a philosopher at Athens
as it were a hundred eyes, and until he has come and gone, your
as its feeding ground.  A Fox came across him, and being very
as many as he could possibly hold, but when he tried to pull out
as the war lasted, he looked upon him as his fellow-helper in all
as they could to their holes.  The generals, not being able to
as treasure trove of his kingdom, and counseled him to lay hold
as was the custom among men.  After these preparations he
as you have hairs in your beard, you would never have gone down
as your words, and if your hands had not been traitors to your
as yours, going to be King over the Beasts?"
ascend the steep path of the mountain, felt his load to be more
aside, therefore, your fears.  I return as an enemy only to those
ask me? Is it that the level way through the desert is closed?"
asked him which he would like best, to go up hill or down.  The
asked him, "How can you pretend to prescribe for others, when you
assailed with impunity, he let drive at his forehead with his
assembly and addressed the citizens:  "Of what folly have you been
assembly, he sat down amidst universal applause.  The Camel,
assembly.
assertion to be simply impossible, assented to the proposal; and
assigned by the will of the Fates--to thee, beauty; to the eagle,
assigned to any one of these places, yet there are a few
assistance, was unable to do so, as he could not by any means
assistance.  The Wolf, having no cause of fear, at his leisure
assured him that he was not a mouse, but a bat, and thus a second
at his request because he was not satisfied with his size and
at night.
ate greedily.  Their feet, however, became so smeared with the
ation, modification or addition to the etext by you or for which
attack him on account of his great size, resorted to a trick to
attack him, and galloped after him for that purpose.  He had run
attack them while they kept together.  Having at last by guileful
attacking him, approached and placed his foot upon his lap.  The
attained the use of their wings and the full plumage of their
attempt to injure one of them.  The Shepherd at first stood on
attempted to lick his master, and jumped upon his back.  The
attention fixed on the sky, he fell accidentally into a deep
attention to the summons.  At last the Goatherd threw a stone,
attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and
attract purchasers, he cried out that he had the statue to sell
attracted other street dogs, who came up to him and inquired how
attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a
avenged with a stroke of his tusks a long-remembered injury.
away.  The Tanner put off his departure from time to time, saying
awoke and scudded away.  The Lion was unable after a long chase
axe pursuing them, and he who had picked up the axe said, "We are
axes in addition to his own.    The Workman, on his return to his
back a double burden.
bade him pour upon the wounds the lungs of a Goat.  They at once
bare plowlands, eating there wheat-stocks and roots pulled up
battle."  "Forbear," said the Miller to him, "harping on what was
be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and
be eaten by you."
be epileptic and fall into a ditch and so obtain rest.  The Ass
be fraught with lessons of general utility, and of universal
be injured, the Fox led him to a deep pit and arranged that he
be instructed, he travelled through many countries, and among
be like us in outside appearances.
be overladen with a multiplicity of details, nor distracted by a
be praised for what I have been, than to be blamed for what I
be relit"
be sold to a tile-maker.  Shortly afterwards, finding that he had
be sure to repay your kindness." The Lion laughed and let him go. It
be very heavy, they danced about for joy and supposed that they
beasts; and wherever we have any ancient and authentic account of
beautiful plumage.  Supposing that the Swan's splendid white
beautiful voices.  They replied, "The dew."  The Ass resolved that
beautiful.  When their strife was at its height, a Bramble from
became entangled in the ram's fleece and he was not able to
became poorer and poorer.  At last, being very angry, he took his
because he composed so large a number (all framed in the same
because its berries were so delicious.  A Fowler observed her
because of his promise.  He thus answered the Bee:  "You shall
because of the beauty of his plumage, the birds indignantly
become broken-winded, was sent by his owner to the farm.  The
become greatly extended and magnified, and he said to himself,
becoming his servant.  Each undertook his proper duty in
been caused by you."
been exposed to a two-fold accusation.  He is charged on the one
been furnished by himself.  "It is a double grief to me," he
before him bread, barley, beans, dried figs, honey, raisins, and,
before his feet.  The Viper, turning about, stung him, and
before you had inspected the way up, nor have exposed yourself to
began chasing the Wolf.  Turning to the Kid, he said, "It is just
began to boast of their respective superiority to each other in
behind him, was led away to the place of public execution.  His
being carried away by the rush of the stream, was on the point of
being greatly alarmed, he threw himself into the river, where a
being in great torment and not knowing how to rid himself of his
being very envious of the handicraft of each, found fault with
believe me, any order of merit, but on the contrary a mark of
believe me, is sweet as the lyre of Apollo, I shall indulge
benefit of men, that they might rise in time for their labors.
benefit."
bent on mischief, took from his pocket a handful of nuts and
besought her to stop chirping.  The Grasshopper refused to
besought permission to rear her puppies in the same spot.  The
between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few
big enough to satisfy the hunger of a Hawk who, if he wanted
bility, cost and expense, including legal fees, that arise
bird! what have you done? By thus appearing before the springtime
birdcatcher came to ensnare them in his nets.  The Cranes, being
birdcatcher threw down the twigs, and the noise made the Dove
birds, and made proclamation that on a certain day they should
birds.  Seeing a thrush sitting upon a tree, he wished to take
bitterly reviled him.  The Lion said to the Fox, "It is not thou
blame me, my friend, but find fault with the master, who has not
blind, I was to give him nothing.  Now he declares that I am
blindness, I am not able to see a single thing in it."
blood I have left."
blood of Aesop" became a well-
blood-sucking flies settled upon him.  A Hedgehog, passing by,
bloomest for ever in renewed youth."
boar in the chase.  He seized him boldly by the ear, but could
boaster, are now all thy gay trappings, thou who are thyself
bold stroke at its roots.  The grasshoppers and sparrows
boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.[16]  These
bolted to the brink of a deep precipice.  While he was in the act
book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider
borne his name, and has secured for him, through all succeeding
bosom and imitated the squeaking of a little pig so admirably
both of these.  It will contain, like the Tale, a short but real
branches with stones and sticks.  The Walnut-Tree piteously
briny."
brought it all on myself! Why could I not have been contented to
brought out on any stage before.  This report being spread about
brought out the villagers three or four times by crying out,
brought up a golden axe, inquiring if he had lost it.  The
bruised.  His master, sending for a leech, asked his advice.  He
bundle from his head.  When the Peasant rose in pursuit, the
buried in a hole in the ground by the side of an old wall and
burst forth into song and thus made himself known by his voice,
bursting out into a great rage, devoured the Ass.  Then he
business."
but all the beasts of the forest fled at his approach.  The Lion
but by swinging too hastily, missed its head and cut off only the
but encouraged him.  He next time stole a cloak and brought it to
but now that I have ceased you do so merrily."
but this one brass trumpet."  "That is the very reason for which
but when she was safe within the cave, sprang upon her and tore
buzzing insect? If it enters my ear, my fate is sealed.  I should
by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert
by William Shakespeare
by a Wolf.  Seeing he could not escape, he turned round, and
by a man younger than herself, made a point, whenever her admirer
by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an
by an almost universal consent, allowed to have been born about
by an early doom.  But thou art immortal and dost never fade, but
by and earnestly begged for a little food.  The Ants inquired of
by crowing in the nighttime and not permitting them to sleep.
by evil conduct; and you, my daughter, that you may make up for
by his flight the good or evil course of future events.  Seeing
by poverty, began to practice medicine in a town in which he was
by reason of their numbers had prevailed to possess the earth.
by some be classed amongst works of this description.  The one is
by the imagination, and not necessarily associated with the
by the narration of some of his wise fables, to reconcile the
by those with whom you passed the whole day!"
by your equipment.
by, ridiculing the ashen hue of its plumage and saying, "I am
calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the
called out to a passing traveler for help, but instead of holding
called out to him and said, "Get along with you! for I will now
came a Buffoon well known among the populace for his jokes, and
came close to hold a conversation with him.  After a time he
came to feed his cattle, but did not see the Stag; and even the
came to the lump of gold, and stole it.  The Miser, on his next
can no longer consider you as a friend," said the Satyr, "a
can you ride upon the beast, while that poor little lad there can
cannot eat the hay himself, and yet refuses to allow those to eat
cannot understand what ailed me to prefer the mill before the
capital of Lydia; Samos, a Greek island; Mesembria, an ancient
capture him.  But the Mouse reached his hole in safety.  Though
capture the beasts of the forest with greater ease.  The Lion
captured and eaten by the Weasels.
care and eat enough to last me both today and tomorrow."  While he
care that his sickness should be publicly known.  The beasts
careful maintenance of the individual characteristics of the
carefully divided the spoil into three equal shares and modestly
carefully provided for, while he himself had scarcely enough to
cargo of sponges instead of salt.  The Ass, again playing the
carpenters and the farmers, the axe would not so frequently be
carried by the Ass in addition to his own, and at the top of all
carried off a prisoner, and was eaten by the Hawk.
carry heavy loads of wood, subjecting him to much slavish
carry him, he would contrive effective weapons against the Stag.
carrying heavy burdens"; and he further advised him to pretend to
carrying the faggots to the city for sale one day, became very
casting his net into the sea, made an excellent haul of fish.
catch mice as he once did.  He therefore rolled himself in flour
caught and carried away an ostrich in my talons."  The Eagle,
caught him.  He at once clipped the Jackdaw's wings, and taking
cause of their complaint.  One of them said, "The Sun, now while
cause: [A] distribution of this etext, [B] alteration,
caused an intense silence.  He suddenly bent his head towards his
causing the man to call loudly upon Hercules for help.  When the
cd etext/etext91
cd etext/etext91
ceased to take any notice of it and would not move.  The Farmer,
celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I,
century, when the Byzantine emperors were the great patrons of
certain day to carry out their purpose, and sharpened their horns
certainly want much more for this, as it is the statue of the
certainty, in reference to the birth, life, and death of Aesop.
chair.  The boy congratulated himself on his good looks; the girl
chance for the first time in the forest, he was so frightened
chance with a Fisherman who was bringing home a basket well laden
characterized by the strictest observance of these rules.  They
characterized himself.  The Horse chose his earliest years and
charge, rushed into the very midst of the enemy.  The Horse was
charge.  An Ape undertook to adjudge the matter between them.
chatter, they discovered his true character and drove him forth,
cheer, expressed his satisfaction in warm terms and lamented his
cheers of the spectators.  Next the Countryman commenced, and
child in speed and spirit."  On the next day, being driven a long
child.
choose to alternatively give you a replacement copy.  If you
circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into
citizens of Delphi were visited with a series of calamities,
civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the
clad in his heavy coat of mail.  The Horse fell down straightway
claim, and.  as she still refused, summoned her before the Judge.
claims all liability to you for damages, costs and expenses,
clamor you would raise if I were to do as you are doing!"
cleansing his feathers as often as he would, he could not change
clear-toned bells fastened to his neck.  His companion followed
climbed onto it and floated in safety to the bank.  Shortly
close beside him.  "For," he said, "if you will bring me drink, I
close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several
club, and drove him away into the forest.
coat in the Thief's hand and ran as fast as he could into the inn
cobwebs away."  While he thus examined everything in turn, he
cock, among the birds of the dunghill."
collected the feathers which had fallen from the wings of his
colony in Thrace; and Cotiaeum, the chief city of a province of
color arose from his washing in the water in which he swam, the
combat.  When they stopped suddenly to catch their breath for a
combatants.  Therefore being condemned by each for his treachery,
come myself tomorrow with my laborers, and with as many reapers
come to my full size.  Pray spare my life, and put me back into
come, and went and sold his cloak.  Not many days later, winter
commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his
committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more
common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of
companion ran up and drew his sword, and then, throwing back his
companion."
companions of yourself, fit at least to be ambassadors and
companions, and stuck them in all parts of his body, hoping
company with each other, but that the Goods should one by one
company."  The Lion said this in the hope that, as the Bull was in
compelled him to drag that heavy log about wherever he went.
compelled to give to it the same undeniable interpretation.  The
compelled to labor.  Shortly afterwards, at the harvest festival,
complained of his distressing cries, saying, "He often handles
complexion.
compressed or any proprietary form (including any form resulting
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read
concealed himself in dark hiding-places, flying always alone and
concealed himself in the branches.  The other, seeing that he
condemned as false, puerile, and unauthentic.[1]  It is given up
confined burst out afresh, and, standing near the lion, he said:
confirmed by later criticism and inquiry.  It remains to state,
conflict.  The Serpent had the advantage, and was about to
conqueror will place on me two sets of panniers?'  "No," rejoined
conqueror, flying up to a high wall, flapped his wings and crowed
conquerors.  A Bat, fearing the uncertain issues of the fight,
conscious of the value of his burden, and tossed up and down the
consist? You can scratch with your claws and bite with your teeth
consistency with which the characters of the animals,
conspicuous to all their troops.  Scarcely had the battle begun,
contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth
contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a
contained in the various translations and disquisitional
contemplated union of Livia, the daughter of Drusus, with Sejanus
contend with the wind, and consequently you are destroyed; while
continue, and the sun shine hot and bright, so that the bricks
continued to walk along merrily by his side.  Presently they came
contrasted it with the luxury and idleness of the Lapdog, till at
contributions in money, time, scanning machines, OCR software,
contrived to take hold of and to pull his ear causing the pig to
convinced that by endeavoring to please everybody he had pleased
copies of this etext if you want to.  As explained in greater
corrector of morals, a censor of vice, and a commender of virtue.
correspondence with the pure Aesopian fable.
costume.  In the evening he was shut up by the shepherd in the
couch and pursued the mouse, wishing to eat it.  Venus was much
could find.  Thus it came to pass that between them both he very
could first strip a wayfaring man of his clothes.  The North Wind
could not possibly get at it.  He tried everything he could think
could rout out the Mouse, and crouching down, went to sleep
could, to a hole so narrow that two could only find room in it by
could.  The Bear soon left him, for it is said he will not touch
could.  The travelers turned towards the sound and wondered what
counsel together, and said, "It is time for us to be off, for if
counsel us."
counsel, as well as those most noted for their courage in the
creatures, were easily beguiled and dismissed the Dogs, whereupon
cried loudly for help, a neighbor ran to the well, and learning
cried out to his companions:  "Stay, my friends, do not do as you
cried out:  "Pray stop, my boys:  what is sport to you, is death to
cries like a child.  A Sparrow upbraided her and said, "Where now
crime.  But when the Lion was released from his cage, he
criminal.  This cruel death of Aesop was not unavenged.  The
critic,[14] as far back as the institution of the Achaian League,
croaking about, as if he had done a good deed.  The unhappy Mouse
crocodile caught him and ate him.  Thus the earth, the air, and
crop, said, "The time has come when I must ask all my neighbors
crow, and her cry, you know, is no omen."
crushed by these strong winds."  They replied, "You fight and
crushed one of them to death.  The Mother coming up, and missing
cubs, and feasted herself and her brood.  The Fox on her return,
cudgel.  The Ass said, "Why, I saw the Monkey do this very thing
dainties."  The Country Mouse was easily persuaded, and returned
damages, costs and expenses, including legal fees, and YOU HAVE
danced as well as any of the courtiers.  The spectacle was often
danger he was running into, took shelter in a farmyard and hid
danger, was about to drink, when the Eagle struck his hand with
dangers from which you had no means of escape."
dare to describe me as useless, and unprofitable?'
dates, and set sail.  But a very great tempest came on, and the
daughter on one condition:  that he should allow him to extract
dawned, the Cock, as usual, crowed very loudly several times.  A
day being intensely hot, and the sun shining in its strength, the
day waiting at the door.  In the evening he heard the same woman
day, when it came out of its hole for food, he took up his axe,
day.  They supposed that the Hen must contain a great lump of
dead.  I find myself, even as I am, better off than the
dead.  The Panther, however, when he had recruited his feeble
dealings of Providence, who hast thyself in a similar manner
death.  Another perished in a similar manner, and then a third,
death:  "I have deserved my present fate; for what had I to do
death:  for you may be assured, that though all the Butchers
deemed a happy windfall the source of my destruction."
deemed the handsomest.  The Monkey came with the rest and
deeper, by that load we too often see of accumulated
defeats was that they had no leaders set apart from the general
defense.  Upon which a Currier stood up and said, "Sirs, I differ
definitely a wolf."
deformity of Aesop, of wondrous apocryphal stories, of lying
delicate affairs of State.  In his discharge of these commissions
delicious! How nice must the Wine itself have been, when it
demanded what sort of food they lived on to give them such
den, saw the huge spits and giant caldrons, and no sign whatever
deny."
departure.  The Lion inquired why he went off so abruptly without
depend upon it you will henceforth pray in vain."
dependent on, the narration, that every reader should be
depict the motives and passions of men, they retain, in an
descended from one of the most noble families in that city.  The
descended from the tree, and jocularly inquired of his friend
described below, [1] the Project (and any other party you may
deserts you at the approach of danger."
desiring to revenge himself on the stranger, asked a man if he
desist, and chirped louder and louder the more the Owl entreated.
desperate from hunger, approached the spot.  He was about to
destroyed, he exclaimed:  "I have been rightly served; why did I
destruction also."
destruction."
destruction."
detail below, if you distribute such copies you may be required
determined to emulate the strength and flight of the Eagle.  He
determined to put an end to themselves and their troubles by
determined to repay him to the best of their ability.  For this
die even though no one should hurt him, threw in some food to
die presently."  The Lion said, "Well, since so huge a beast is
differed in no respect from their other hens.  The foolish pair,
dignity, and if you will come when I reach my own stall in the
diligent perusal of ancient authors, by a Frenchman, M. Claude
dinner and began to eat, the Dog woke up and wagged his tail, as
dinner left their nets upon the bank.  The Monkey, who is the
dip it in the blood from your wound, and go and give it to the
dir [to see files]
dir [to see files]
direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the
directly or indirectly from any of the following that you do or
directors, officers, members and agents harmless from all lia-
disappeared beneath the water a second time, returned with a
disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is
disappeared, the Fox discovered the trick and presenting himself
disappointed and again caused her to return to her former shape.
disappointed, and fiercely abused the dog.  The Hound looked up
disappointment which had befallen them, but because they had
disappointment.  A bystander said to him, "Be satisfied with half
disclaims most of the liability we could have to you if some-
discover if the Cat in her change of shape had also altered her
discovered him, and some threw sticks at him and pelted him with
discovered the secret of the hidden treasure, and digging down,
discovered to his grief that it contained so little water that he
discovered what had happened, but was less grieved for the death
disgrace, a public notice to all men to avoid you as an ill
disguise of fictitious characters, by clothing with speech the
dishes and, seizing him by his fore and hind paws, bundled him
dismiss them from your heels, there might soon be treaties of
distance and said to her, "Think how many men there are who have
distance several times, saw them both stretched on the ground
distance what they thought was a large ship.  They waited in the
distance, and asked him how he was.  "I am very middling,"
distinguish one bird from the other.  By mistake he caught the
distress.
distribute it is limited by the copyright and other laws, and by
distribution and either a Defect in the etext, or any alter-
distrust him.
divert to himself the favor of the guests, proposed to stand up
divided among yourselves, you will be broken as easily as these
division? You are perfect to a fraction."  He replied, "I learned
do in your pride and self-conceit; for even though you have the
do me the favor of going around to the hollow trunk below me, and
do not molest them."  "How is this?'  said the Hedgehog; "do you
do not understand them, or do not agree to and accept them, then
do see very plainly every preparation for your dining on a bull."
do you hurt me so, Mistress? What weight can my blood add to the
do you make so much noise? We bear all the labor, and we, not
do, when you make such a fuss about a mere fall into the water?"
domain, a defective or damaged disk or other etext medium, a
done, and the army disciplined, and the herald Mouse had duly
door stretching himself.  He asked him sharply:  "Why do you stand
double death."
doute il laissa la chose tres imparfaite.  Esope la perfectionne
down and seized him.  The Nightingale, about to lose his life,
down for their future protection.  Jupiter granted their request
drank water, for as yet my mother's milk is both food and drink
dressed himself up as a physician, and, taking his cane and a bag
drink first, and were soon engaged in the agonies of a mortal
drinking horn of the countryman.  The rustic, ignorant of his
drinking long before they reached the hides.
drowned.  With his last breath he said to himself, "I am rightly
drowning.  A Dove sitting on a tree overhanging the water plucked
drudgery and ill-treatment.  War was again proclaimed, however,
dull-head! it is not yet come to this, that men pay worship to an
during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the
each other and were faint from the long combat, they lay down
each other in the chase.  Having secured a large booty, the Lion
earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian
early.  When they had done this, they found that they had only
earnest what he can do."
earnestly begged her to come lower down, lest she fall by some
earnestly begged the Hawk to let him go, saying that he was not
earnestly beseeching the Farmer to spare his life.  "Pray save
earth itself, and when her father died, as there was no earth,
earth, wishes to uproot the oak, so she may on its fall seize our
earth?'
earth?'
earthenware and the other of brass.  The Earthen Pot said to the
eat after my toil, you wake up and wag your tail for food.  Do
eat and not even that without hard work.  But when war broke out,
eat.  The Ass, on the contrary, had much work to do in grinding
eating I will give it you for the sake of my own superior
eating the acorns inadvertently frayed and tore the cloak.  When
edge of the cliff as she possibly could, in the hope of securing
edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857.
editions of these fables, and was republished as late as 1727 by
editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and
effecting my escape."  At the approach of the evening the herdsman
effort, the man let him go and said, "Conquer, but conquer to
either Tale or Parable, it will ever keep in view, as its high
either from fear of an excess of frankness, or from a love of fun
either starved by the one, or to have been overworked by the
elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no
electronically.
else to do, she buried him in her own head.  Hence she obtained
embraced them both, and bestowing his kisses and affection
emergencies and fed him carefully with hay and corn.  But when
eminent degree, their own special features of craft or counsel,
empty sling, chased them away by the terror he inspired; but when
enchanted with the sound, that they tried to imitate it; and, in
enchanted; and, desiring to possess the same charms of melody,
encouraging him to descend.  The Goat, mindful only of his
end of its tail.  After some time the Cottager, afraid that the
endeavored to do as they had done.  Having handled the net, he
endeavoring to pull him back.  When the Ass persisted in his
endowed one portion of it with the qualities which chiefly
enemy and I shall perish together."
enemy, saw a wagon heavily laden with wood, and went and
enemy.  A Bricklayer earnestly recommended bricks as affording
enemy.  He cried out to his captors, "Pray spare me, and do not
enemy?'  The Stag replied:  "Only allow me, friend, to stay where I
enjoy an empty honor and to assume the badge of your nobler sex,
enjoy the good things he has to give?'  "Why," he replied, "I am
enjoyment."
enough to spoil the appetite."
ensure his destruction.  He approached the Bull and said, "I have
entangled in the meshes of a cobweb and was eaten by a spider.
enter the habitations of men.  Hence it arises that Ills abound,
entered, and having had to complain that his oxen had not been
entertained no anticipation of danger.  Some boatmen sailing by
entertainment but some soup made of pulse, which was poured out
entertainment, said in the joy of his heart, "How glad I am that
entirely in his charge.  The Wolf, now that he had the
entreated him not to cut down the tree that sheltered them, but
envious of the praises bestowed on the Monkey and desiring to
equal enthusiasm, proposed timber as a preferable method of
equal.  The Lions made this reply:  "Your words, O Hares! are
erected in honor of my ancestors, who were in their day freedmen
escape injury for your pains.
escape.  A Goat, overcome with thirst, came to the same well, and
etext under the "PROJECT GUTENBERG" trademark (whether electron-
etexts, is a "Public Domain" work distributed by Professor
even if it had been only with those words, for I should have been
evening, I will give you a little sack full of barley."  The Ass
evening, as he wandered through the suburbs with his whole
event, or to some individual acts of wrong-doing.  Thus, the
ever, but I could not help my infirmities.  I rather deserve to
evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the
excited against what is low, ignoble, and unworthy.  The true
exclaimed, "Do not cultivate the favor of this man, but of your
exclaimed, "O foolish creature that I am! For the sake of a
exclaimed, "O wretched me! that those whom I cheer with my fruit
exclaimed, "that I should perish by an arrow feathered from my
exclaimed:  "You richly deserve your fate; for a bird of the air
exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly
exclusively to literature.  He published his Life of Aesop, Anno
excuse for eating him.  He accused him of being a nuisance to men
exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection
exhausted with fatigue.  A Fox, who had gone round them at a
exhortations, he determined to give them a practical illustration
expect him to spare us?'
experienced an equal longing for the contents of the game-bag.
expiring said, "Ah! you who so lately, when you supposed yourself
exposed.
expressed his willingness to accept the Lion as the suitor of his
expressed their sorrow, and came one by one to his den, where the
extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus
extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much
exultingly with all his might.  An Eagle sailing through the air
eyes of their neighbors.
eyes, and on every visit took something away, stealing all her
fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the
fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library
fables of the "Eagle and the Fox" and of the "Fox and Monkey' are
fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum,"[13] a book consisting of a
fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards,
fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but
fabulist, therefore, discharges a most important function.  He is
facts, relating to the birth, life, and death of Aesop.  He is,
faggot, took the sticks separately, one by one, and again put
fail in the performance."
failed to notice him.  The Stag, congratulating himself on his
fairness of her complexion! Oh, if her voice were only equal to
fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to
fallen into worse hands, and noting his master's occupation,
falling back through the meshes of the net into the sea.
falling into a swoon, the man said to himself, "Woe is me! that
familiarity and ill-breeding."
families as food for her young."  Having thus frightened the Eagle
fanned the spark into a flame, and the eaglets, as yet unfledged
farm-bailiff with several laborers passed through the shed and
farmyard when you know that you shake in your shoes if you only
farmyard.  One at last put the other to flight.  The vanquished
fast as I can."
fast as they could to the mountains.  The Goatherd scolded them
fate.  Mercury appeared and demanded the cause of his tears.
father's, which he saw in his sleep, I am shut up on your account
fatigue, on the very brink of a deep well.  Just as he was about
fatigue.
fault, and even if you got it for free and from someone other
faults.  Hence it is that men are quick to see the faults of
favor was the proposal to tie a bell to the neck of the Cat, so
fear as they fed alone, and feasted on them one by one at his own
fears into the Sow, she went and pretended to hide herself in the
feast, I must leave you to enjoy it by yourself.  It is
feathered finery.  But when Jupiter proposed to make him king
feathers, when the owner of the field, looking over his ripe
feats he had performed in the different places he had visited.
fed the one for his table and kept the other for the sake of its
feeling no manner of inconvenience, made no further complaints.
feet and rushed helter-skelter to the deep water for safety.  On
feliciter incipit."  The other is a larger work in two volumes,
fell by accident and rose up again with his load considerably
fell down dead under his burden.  Not knowing what else to do in
fell, and not being able to rise on account of his load, groaned
felling an oak and begged him to show him a safe hiding-place.
fellow if you expect to get anything from me, who am accustomed
fellow who with the same breath blows hot and cold."
females equaled them in dignity.  "Allow them," said Jupiter, "to
few, but is now with all men."
fictitious personages introduced into it.  The narration should
fictitiously introduced, are marked.  While they are made to
fiercely for its possession.  When they had fearfully lacerated
fiercer renewal of the fight, they saw some Vultures waiting in
fifty chickens.  The chickens will become ready for the market
fifty hours is one conservative estimate for how long it we take
fight yourself, your trumpet stirs all the others to battle."
fight, so that they might be better marshaled in battle array and
figures  the beasts of the field and forest, and aimed at the
filching from their very altars a part of the sacrifice offered
files per month, thus upping our productivity to two million/hr.
files per month:  thus upping our productivity from one million.
find surety for your good faith, for how can I trust anyone as a
find that men are sure to impute their calamities to me, however
find you, when the day of payment comes?'
finding that the Hare also had run off, he said, "I am rightly
finger and caused great pain and inflammation, so that the young
first began to sprout, to pull it all up out of the ground and
first estate; but I have found thee for no purpose.  I would
first let me ask you to hold my clothes, or I shall tear them to
first tried his power and blew with all his might, but the keener
first, and obtained, as on the preceding day, the applause and
first.  On seeing him the third time, he so increased in boldness
flank, and again biting him, retreated to his hole.  The Bull
flay a wolf alive and wrap his skin yet warm around you."  The
flew around with a great whir of his wings and settled upon a
flew upon the sheep and killed them, and then attacked the oxen.
flies which you see are full of blood, and sting me but little,
flocks.  The Wolf, having shown himself an apt pupil, said to the
fly with him, lest they should both be captured, but the animal
fold; the gate was closed, and the entrance made thoroughly
folly in thinking that everything round must be an egg."
fondling her child and saying:  "You are quiet now, and if the
food, leaped upon him, and was instantly caught and squeezed to
food, ought to pursue the larger birds.  The Hawk, interrupting
food, painted himself white and joined them in order to share
food.  As he passed the door of a cottage built in the forest, he
fool, fell down on purpose when he reached the stream, but the
foot and obtained food for herself and her kittens, but feigning
foot of the Mouse tightly to his own.  Thus joined together, the
foot, and was giving his whole mind to the discovery of the
for I know well when to go fast, and when to go slow."
for I should not have maltreated the Vine that saved me."
for a list of books
for a list of books
for a long time were handed down by the uncertain channel of oral
for a long time, and at last said, "If you had treated a dog in
for he loved the race of man, but could not refuse the request
for help, until you have done your best to help yourself, or
for his life:  "Pray spare me; I am very serviceable to men.  I
for it by sending an explanatory note within that time to the
for me to give the water to them than to you."
for me, and am not able to find one."  "Take me," returned the
for men, who in return for your services flog you with whips and
for offense.  "I have reasons enough," said the Bull.  "I see no
for safety, so much more perilous."
for safety.  The Thief made off with the coat and did not return
for the "Right of Replacement or Refund" described below, the
for the contest.  But one of them who was exceedingly old (for
for the fruit."  But said Minerva, "Let anyone say what he will
for the third time and brought up the axe that had been lost.
for their ingratitude in leaving him, when during the storm he
for them to lie on.  Those lazy fellows have not even swept the
for they come not one by one, but in troops, and by no means
for whatever I should whiten, you would immediately blacken again
for your assistance against greater antagonists?'
for your reading for education and entertainment.  HOWEVER, THIS
for your wool, or your milk, but he lays hold on me for my very
forgot their dancing and became (as indeed they were) Monkeys
forgotten; and it is at the commencement of the fourteenth
formed into troops, regiments, and battalions.  When all this was
formed such very different expectations.  One of their company,
former contents.  She greedily placed it several times to her
former masters.  On bringing him home he resorted to every means
former owner, lest he should again hunt for you and deprive you a
forsaken even the man on whose head they grew."
forsooth!
forth and slaughtered the cattle, and, killing the Shepherds who
forth below, apply if you wish to copy and distribute this etext
forth from his companions.  He pulled up his horse, and with
forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions
found a bed beneath in the hollow trunk.  When the morning
found a convenient hole, moved into the middle of the trunk; and
found himself surrounded by a whole army of Ants, near whose nest
found some Wild Goats mingled among them, and shut them up
foundation of her house, so its inhabitants might more easily
foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the
four great feet came to the pool and crushed him to death with
fourteenth century.  His life was prefixed to all the early
frankincense, and asked, "What is it?'  The young Mole said, "It
free again in the forest, and the Shepherd to be pardoned and
free copyright licenses, and every other sort of contribution
freedman in the ancient republics of Greece, was the permission
freedman, imitated many of these fables in Latin iambics about
frequent use the pleasure of your exchange, and each will again
friend unexpectedly came in.  The bird-trap was quite empty, as
friend who is able to fly away from his bargain whenever he
friend, it is not for the pasture that you invite me, but for
friend," replied the other, "do not say 'I,' but 'We' have found
friends, than to become the food of Crows or Vultures."
frighten him also, but the Fox no sooner heard the sound of his
frisking and fawning as well as he could.  He next tried to jump
from Delphos which was to be the signal of his death, in turning
from a place of concealment, took an accurate aim and wounded him
from a trellised vine.  She resorted to all her tricks to get at
from counter to tail, and a man went along to groom me; and now I
from him thou mayest learn what I myself shall be when I assail
from his danger, he forgot his promise.  Shortly afterwards,
from man, only to throw myself into the mouth of a wild beast?'
from public view; the other lived in a gully containing little
from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera
from the failure of the means of living.
from the farm.  He often lamented his own hard fate and
from the hedgerow, the Town Mouse said to his friend, "You live
from the physicians the means of healing you?'  The Lion commanded
from which an irremediable poison, the bird-
from word processing or hypertext software), so long as
from you altogether:  there is no material for resistance equal to
fruit.  For the sake of the nuts, the passers-by broke its
ftp mrcnext.cso.uiuc.edu
ftp mrcnext.cso.uiuc.edu
full of fine oats, which I have left untouched for you, as you
further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a
further information is included below.  We need your donations.
fury."
galloped about in a very extravagant manner, and said to himself:
galloped off.
gave them his own attributes:  hence every man is in his youth
generally prevailed, and the audience came rather to ridicule the
generals bound their heads with straws, that they might be more
gentleness of the beast's temper, he summoned courage enough to
gently."  "That was just why it stung you," said his Mother.  "The
germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct
get credit for it.
get him at night, when it was dark, and he was not able to
get in on account of the ornaments on their heads, were all
get or mget [to get files. . .set bin for zip files]
get or mget [to get files. . .set bin for zip files]
get out, and began to groan and lament his fate.  Another Fox
get rid of the weight of the brush, which was a very great
give thy light in silence.  Know that not even the stars need to
given it.  He called them to his bedside and said, "My sons,
gives him the preference over all other mythologists.  His
giving me the sovereignty of the sea, has quite denied me the
go and take a stone, and place it in the hole, and fancy that the
go food ready in my hand, for the sake of pursuing birds which
goal.  On the day appointed for the race the two started
gold in its inside, and in order to get the gold they killed it.
gold is still lying there.  It will do you quite the same
good can I be to you, and how little am I worth? I am not yet
good friend, cease from this unseasonable boasting.  The larger
good; but they lack both claws and teeth such as we have."
gown.  In this dress I will go to the Christmas parties, where
gradually led him towards the pool in which he lived, until
grapes.  A Goat, passing by, nibbled its young tendrils and its
grave-hillock.
great bulk of them are not the immediate work of Aesop.  Many are
great glee joined in the joke by saying, "What a marvel it is
great mimics of men's actions, they showed themselves most apt
great size.  Now he considered that it would be neither an easy
greater acceptance when the reader is led, unconsciously to
greater caution, "But suppose the water should fail us.  How can
greatest number of whelps at a birth.  They rushed clamorously
greatly alarmed and, rising from his seat, attempted to run away.
green all the year round, the Fig-Tree changed its leaves with
greeted them with this salutation:  "What sort of a king do I seem
grew angry, and could not bear the self-praises of her Brother,
grew proud of his bell and went tinkling it all over the
grief and learning the cause, said, "Pray do not grieve so; but
grievously lamented the destruction of his sheep and oxen, but
groaning beneath his heavy burden, said to himself:  "I am treated
ground and limped away, howling dreadfully.  His yelling soon
ground, and all her imaginary schemes perished in a moment.
guard and drive off thieves with their stings.  But the Farmer
guilty? You have not hesitated to entrust your heads to a man,
gullet-bag and lay down on the shore to die.  A Kite saw him and
habits of life, let down a mouse in the middle of the room.  The
had attacked him, raged with angry fury.  Then they who had
had become accustomed.  A few days afterwards a heavy wagon
had compassion on it, and taking it up, placed it in his bosom.
had done, said, "You silly creature! why have you hatched these
had enslaved himself to the service of man.
had married the gardener, and inquired how she was and how all
had not given up the rights of the ash, we might yet have
had not proceeded far when they met a Lion.  The Fox, seeing
had obtained what he desired.  The Peddler saw through his trick
had reached the goal, and was comfortably dozing after her
had recently occupied.  As soon as he entered, a He-Goat left in
had taken a large catch.  When they had dragged the nets to the
had taken as many beasts as their necessities required, the Lion
had taken more care of them than of his own herd.  One of them,
hairless, ill-featured young Monkey as a candidate for the
hammering on the anvil, you sleep on the mat; and when I begin to
hand with having had before him a copy of Babrias (to whom we
handle for his axe.  The Trees consented to his request and gave
handling and mine are very different things.  He catches you only
handling of his net to retain all the large fish and to draw them
handsome in shape, and powerful in attack.  I have jaws well
happened shortly after this that the Lion was caught by some hunters,
harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred
hard, so that he could not take the herd to their usual feeding
hardly keep pace by the side of you?'  The good-natured Miller
hart@vmd.cso.uiuc.edu (internet)   hart@uiucvmd   (bitnet)
harvest; but the Farmer reaped nothing that year and returned
has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall
has no business to seek its food from the sea."
hastened away as fast as he could run.  A neighbor saw him
hastened to his den with rapid steps.  After a few days he came
have been only an ass."
have experienced with what speed you run away, know right well
have given you all the attributes which I possess myself, and
have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off
have suffered an eclipse, to have disappeared and to have been
have you at a birth?'  The Lioness laughed at them, and said:
have your request, but it will be at the peril of your own life.
having been permitted to draw out your head in safety from the
having his whole thoughts directed towards the sky.  While thus
he climbed up into the tree and shook them down.  The Sheep
he collected as many stones as he could carry and dropped them
he did it to warm his hands because they were so cold.  Later on
he found a tame Partridge for sale.  He purchased it and brought
he had caught nothing, and he had to kill a pied Partridge, which
he had enjoyed his supper.  He replied, "Why, to tell you the
he had fled to her for assistance, she had used him worse than
he had no knowledge of medicine, and was only made famous by the
he had not placed the heart of man on the outside, that everyone
he had tamed for a decoy.  The bird entreated earnestly for his
he is found in Corinth, and at another in Athens, endeavouring,
he is single, parches up the marsh, and compels us to die
he met a friend, a Fuller, and entreated him to come and live
he said that he did it to cool the meat, which was too hot.  "I
he said, "this shows what sort of judges you are."
he should try out the animal before he bought him.  He took the
he visited the different petty republics of Greece.  At one time
he was driven forth from the light of day, and henceforth
he was standing.  One of them climbed up and stung him, and he
he would live only upon dew, and in a short time died of hunger.
he you."  "Anything to please you," said the old man; "we can but
head! Yet it is of no value, as it entirely lacks brains."
healed her and demanded the promised payment.  The Old Woman,
healed.  I on the contrary affirm that I am still blind; for when
healing, when my father only taught me the trade of a butcher?'
hear his roar at a distance?'
heard a Mother say to her child, "Be quiet, or I will throw you
hearing this the Lion groaned and lamented very much and,
heaven, and said:  "Just now I vowed to offer a lamb to the
heavier loads to carry and harder work in the brick-field, he
heavily.  Some Frogs frequenting the pool heard his lamentation,
heels.  The expiring Lion said, "I have reluctantly brooked the
heels."  The Ass held his peace, and made only a silent appeal to
help me now and scold me afterwards."
help them.  They replied, "We would willingly have helped you, if
henceforth with undisputed mastery.
her beauty, she would deservedly be considered the Queen of
her cave.  And thus they both, along with their families,
her cheese, lets fall, as it were by accident, the strongest
her crest, which is popularly said to be her father's
her greater safety.  She turned her sound eye towards the land
her in the air.  "I will give you," she said, "all the riches of
her shell to pieces.  The Tortoise exclaimed in the moment of
her to pieces.  "Woe is me," exclaimed the Doe, "who have escaped
her voice, eagerly flew up.  The Owl came forth from her hollow,
her whelp.  A wild-boar Hunter, seeing her distress, stood at a
her wings by the blow, she fell to the ground, and was caught by
her, and she again commended him.  The Youth, advanced to
here the life of the ants, while in my house is the horn of
herself, but used the shears so unskillfully that with the fleece
hid themselves.  At last the Country Mouse, almost famished, said
hidden.  The huntsman took no notice of the signs, but believing
him a visit and partake of his country fare.  As they were on the
him a young ash-tree.  No sooner had the man fitted a new handle
him for breaking his promise, he turned around and cried out,
him home at night, gave him to his children.  On their saying,
him horns, but even deprived him of a portion of his ears.
him immediately to tell him the cure, when he replied, "You must
him on account of his color.  expelled him from living with them.
him said:  "A fine Lion you are, to be frightened of a Mouse."
him several slices of meat in order to pacify the Housedog, so
him the capture of the Ass if the Lion would pledge his word not
him to be a man (whom he is always said to befriend), came and
him to come and live with him, saying that he would enjoy greater
him while on shipboard.  As he sailed off the coast of Greece, a
him, "Why did you not treasure up food during the summer?'  He
him, and tore him to pieces.
him, said with a smile, "You should have moved your master not to
him, said:  "I should indeed have lost my senses if I should let
him, with a request that he would feel it, and say what it was.
him.
him.  The Stag immediately took to flight, and exerting his
himself easily at a safe distance from the Lion.  But entering a
himself in a shed among the oxen.  An Ox gave him this kindly
himself of a serious illness, the Governor of the town determined
himself the right to be considered the father of Greek fables,
himself upon the Lion and stung him on the nostrils and the parts
himself with the Goat's horns, he safely reached the mouth of the
himself, a Lion appeared at the pool and crouched to spring upon
himself, and by a wily stratagem succeeded.  "How handsome is the
himself, bristled up with pride, gave himself airs, and refused
himself, to have his sympathies enlisted in behalf of what is
himself.  He ran to the river and threw his axe on purpose into
himself:  "Woe is me! How I have deceived myself! These feet which
his Horse, but at the same time stole his oats and sold them for
his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are
his blasts, the closer the Traveler wrapped his cloak around him,
his breath, and feigned the appearance of death as much as he
his cloak, and demanded that it should be shaken out.  When that
his cloven heel."  The Frog, puffing herself out, inquired, "if
his complaining.  On learning what had happened, he said to him,
his crafty foe and said, "Ah! you that lie there, may you prosper
his deliverer, for seeing the Peasant sitting under a wall which
his den, Mistress Wolf inquired of him why he returned wearied
his door.  The Thief sat down beside him and talked with him.  As
his good looks, the latter for her extraordinary ugliness.  While
his guard against him, as against an enemy, and kept a strict
his hand, he was prevented from doing so by the neck of the
his heart and saw in that single glance that its feathers had
his history.  Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up in
his household.  The storm still continuing, he was obliged to
his lair.  A Lion met him in the path, and seizing the lamb, took
his lair.  Being in want of food, he called to a Sheep who was
his lime-twigs for the Dove, which sat in the branches.  The Ant,
his metals the Dog slept; but when, on the other hand, he went to
his mistake, his Mother placed before him a few grains of
his monastery.  He took an active part in public affairs.  In
his mouth, saw his own shadow in the water and took it for that
his neck asked him who it was that fed him so well and yet
his neck so that the Dog might give notice of his presence
his neighbors' faults, and a large bag behind filled with his own
his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in
his oats, gave the Ox an abundance of hay, and fed the Dog with
his own profit.  "Alas!"  said the Horse, "if you really wish me
his own ugliness, searched through the woods and fields, and
his own, because the stream swept it away.
his path.
his present service and provided with another master.  Jupiter,
his properties, came upon a Mask, an admirable imitation of a
his skin arose from dirt contracted through the neglect of his
his slumbers.  He rose up and shook himself in great wrath, and
his tail as if to say, "I am a suppliant, and seek your aid."  The
his teeth, and cut off his claws, as his daughter was fearfully
his time while in prison, awaiting the return of the sacred ship
his tyranny.
his wife, who had been a spectator to all that took place, said,
his wing, and, seizing the drinking horn in his talons, carried
his wont, was seen by a Hawk who, being in need of food, swooped
his word, hastened forward in the chase.  As soon as they were
his.  When the Workman said it was not, he dived into the pool
hit upon this expedient to rid himself of his importunities.  He
hold of a Bramble to save himself.  Having pricked and grievously
holes.  The Cat was no longer able to get at them and perceived
hollow of the tree.  When night came she went forth with silent
home grieving sorely.
home lay across a stream into which his Ass, making a false step,
home on a visit to her father.  After a short time she returned,
home.  As they went along they chanced to pass a deep well, amply
honey that they could not use their wings, nor release
honeycomb, he threw down his axe, and looking on the tree as
honor, I reaped no benefits:  but now that I maltreat you I am
hope of seeing it enter the harbor, but as the object on which
hope that the figs would ripen.  A Fox seeing him sitting so long
horns.  The Lioness came up, and bitterly lamented the death of
horseback who begged the hare of him, under the pretense of
hour he found that instead of obtaining revenge on the Stag, he
house, related to his companions all that had happened.  One of
house, would give him nothing.  The Physician insisted on his
house.  However when the summer returned again, he lay asleep
household.  Wishing to find out if she had the same effect on the
hovering near an altar, on which some villagers were sacrificing
however it reached the beach, they discovered that it was only a
however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject.
human blood, I wish that I could have killed you even if I had
human conduct, and yet it so conceals its design under the
human head.  He placed his paws on it and said, "What a beautiful
hundred hours is a conservative estimate for how long it we take
hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini,
hungry ate him up.  Just as he was on the point of being eaten,
huntsmen and hounds.
huntsmen, attracted by the rustling of the leaves, looked back,
hysical medium (such as a disk), you must return the physical
iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a
ically, or by disk, book or any other medium), you will:
idleness, because you were presently to be sacrificed."
if he could only discover the thief who had stolen the Calf, he
if he should beget other suns?'
if he would ask for a share of his meal.  His master one day,
if you now should crop my leaves, and cut me down to my root, I
if you touch me ever so slightly, I shall be broken in pieces,
if, according to my custom, I tell the truth?'  The Ape quickly
ill, but to good, will."
image down from its pedestal and dashed it against the wall.
immediately appeared in answer to his summons and asked for what
immediately clutched the Fox, and attacked the Ass at his
immediately let go of his own, and fiercely attacked the other
immediately took up his son behind him.  They had now almost
immediately trampled them all to death with his foot.  Mercury
imminent danger, approached the Lion and promised to contrive for
impartially on each, said, "I wish you both would look into the
impetuous, headstrong, and obstinate in maintaining his own
implied warranties or the exclusion or limitation of consequen-
in a river.  Not being able to reach them, they agreed to drink
in an intentional travestie of human affairs.  The 'ainos,' as
in body, but in mind."
in common and could not live together, but were engaged in
in her beak.  A Fox, seeing this, longed to possess the meat
in his den.  A Mouse ran over his mane and ears and woke him from
in his stomach, he said, "I deserve all this torment, for my
in his turn and dance for their amusement.  He moved about in so
in his wanderings.  At last coming upon a Fox, he tried to
in keeping me from being swept under by paper mail as follows:
in machine readable form.  The Project gratefully accepts
in need of immediate help, and he is wont to give his good gifts
in ridicule of pompous pretenders; and his Crow, when she drops
in size.  The splendor of the emerald shines in your neck and you
in style and rules of grammar, by making for themselves new and
in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned
in the chase:  and the third share (believe me) will be a source
in the company of the sheep and did not make the slightest effort
in the day they sat down to eat, and the food prepared was quite
in the first week of the next month.  Since our ftp program has
in the history of the origin and descent of these fables.  The
in the hollow of an oak, crept into the hole and made a hearty
in the hope that the fish, attracted by his melody, would of
in the middle of the night.
in the present day, by general consent, as unworthy of the
in the presentation of The Complete Works of William Shakespeare
in the summertime.  A Grasshopper, perishing with famine, passed
in the water.  The Frog, one day intent on mischief, bound the
in these and in later times.  The rhetoricians and philosophers
in this palace as if I had been a girl:  what shall I now do to
in which he was warned that his son would be killed by a lion.
in which much blood was shed.  The Weasels were always the
in, from which he died not many days later.
inaccurate or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or
incidents now generally accepted by scholars as established
including legal fees, and [2] YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLI-
including this Small Print statement.  Such copies can be
inconvenience.  One of them interrupting him said, "If you had
incurred a heavier penalty."
indeed, sir, sadly deceiving yourself; you are indulging a hope
indication whatever of your having slaughtered a sheep, while I
indignation, set upon him with clubs and drove him out of the
induced them to plow its waters, it grew rough and destroyed
indulging in these proud thoughts, a Lion fell upon him and
inflicted a mortal bite on the Cottager's infant son.  Grieving
informed him of the difficulty they were both in and suggested a
ing it, you can receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid
inhabitants of those cities to the administration of their
injuries done him by Lycambes.  So also the fables of the
injuring you.
injury?'  The Bald Man replied, "I can easily make peace with
inquired of the Bull if he would like him to go.  The Bull
inquired the cause of his lameness.  The Ass replied that passing
inquired what was the matter and why his ears moved with such a
instantly."  The Dog, wagging his tail, replied:  "O, master! I am
instead of a sheep, and killed him instantly.
instead of actors.  Pulling off their masks and tearing their
instruction, and will necessarily seek to inculcate some moral
instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on
insults of the brave, but to be compelled to endure such
intended; for you now see that there are creatures who are still
intentions.
interpreting all he said (and how could she do otherwise?) into
interrupted them, saying:  "I have already two oxen, who, without
intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the
into a broad flat stone dish.  The soup fell out of the long bill
into the Scazonic[17] iambics, in which Babrias is known to have
into the presence of the Lioness and demanded of her the
into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days,
into the snares of death."
into three shares.  "I will take the first share," he said,
introduction of the animals or fictitious characters should be
invite a stranger Dog, a friend of his, saying, "My master gives
irritated at the escape of his prey, injected his poison into the
is a pebble."  His Mother exclaimed:  "My son, I am afraid that you
is copyright protected, and since the materials and methods you
is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or
is it that when we flow into your tides so potable and sweet, you
is often snappish, irritable, hard to please, and selfish,
is presented in cooperation with World Library, Inc., from their
is thy remarkable swiftness of foot? Why were your feet so slow?"
is true.  I have the advantages you mention, but when I hear even
is true.  You are a capital bird at telling the time of day.  But
isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John
it again, and said:  "Boast no more, but henceforth be content to
it aloft.
it at all.
it at once as an offering to his benefactor.  A Fox, seeing this,
it enticed men with the calmness of its looks, but when it had
it foreboded, when one of them said to his companion, "Let us
it from him.  Standing at a safe distance, the Wolf exclaimed,
it from the Ass, by witnessing his fate."
it home to be reared with his Gamecocks.  When the Partridge was
it home to his Mother.  She not only abstained from beating him,
it may be on, and but for the "Right of Replacement or Refund"
it on fire.  The Fox by a strange fatality rushed to the fields
it to the person from whom you received it describing such
it, and fitting his twigs to a proper length, watched intently,
it, and, pouncing upon it with his talons, carried it aloft.  The
it, gave himself a heavy slap.  Escaping, the Fly said mockingly,
it, till the Ass, not liking the noise nor the strange handling
it:  "What a lovely flower is the Rose, a favorite alike with Gods
its name denotes, is an admonition, or rather a reproof veiled,
its own Feathers," by Aeschylus;[5] the "Fox avenging his wrongs
j'aimerais mieux attribuer la gloire de l'invention; mais sans
ject Gutenberg Association / Illinois Benedictine College".
journey, and feeling very wearied, he exclaimed in a disconsolate
judgment for my crimes, or for any other cause; but this I do
jumping from a lofty precipice into a deep lake below.  As they
just as any other Ass would.  The Lapdog knew many tricks and was
just in the same proportion as you are what you pretend to be!"
justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the
kill me, who will announce to you the appearance of the dawn?
killed him.  He exclaimed with a too late repentance, "Wretched
killed the Goat, and so healed the Ass.
kindly helped him in the hour of need.  One of them again
kinds of life-sized animals, among which was the picture of a
king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the
king, commanded them to be seized and brought before him, that he
knavery, not only took away the golden axe, but refused to
knew that way long before you were born."
knocked at the door and inquired of the inmates how they all did,
know how I got out of the house."
know, that when I yawn for the third time, I actually turn into a
knowledge and deemed her to be the wisest of birds.  Hence it is
knowledge he is a Daw; but he would like you to think an Eagle."
knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full
known adage, bearing witness to the truth that deeds of wrong
labor with my companions, and not wish to be idle all the day
labor, and resolute to amass wealth and to husband his resources.
labor, resolved to kill the cock who roused their mistress so
lacerated or destroyed the whole flock.
lack of discipline.  They therefore chose as leaders Mice that
laid to your roots."
lamenting when too late the destruction of his companions, said
land not far from Athens, he asked the Monkey if he were an
land, and after all to find this seashore, to which I had come
language purposely intended to convey a hidden and secret
large faggot of sticks, and one of them said to his companions,
large misfortunes.
large ram, with the intention of carrying him off, but his claws
large sum of gold for distribution among the citizens, he was so
large sum, to put her head into his mouth and draw out the bone.
last he was caught in the very act, and having his hands bound
last of all, brought a dainty piece of cheese from a basket.  The
last one day he broke his cords and halter, and galloped into his
laughed aloud and said, "It may be all as you say, I only know
lay violent hands on him, but to find some plea to justify to the
lazily replied, "Why should I, pray? Do you think it likely the
leaders of armies."  The Ape and all his court, gratified with the
leaped to such a distance that no man of his day could leap
learn whom he has attacked."  On this, he who had fought with the
learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary,
learned the cause of his grief, plunged into the stream and
learned.
learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence
learning, and amidst the splendors of an Asiatic court, that we
least in the eyes of me his mother, the dearest, handsomest, and
leave me without a word of thanks."  The Fox replied, "Indeed, I
leaves behind in the very vessel which contained it so sweet a
leaves of a Vine.  The huntsmen, in their haste, overshot the
leaves, the snow fell through to the ground, and did not injure
leaves.  The Vine addressed him and said:  "Why do you thus injure
led them all out to feed, and the Wild Goats scampered away as
led to a disgraceful death."
left the Hare to follow him.  The Hare, scared by the noise,
left to himself the smallest possible morsel.  The Lion said,
left? But I shall not have to wait long for my just revenge; for
legends, and gross anachronisms, that it is now universally
leisure.
leisure.
length of time it had lain about the fields.  "Is this," said the
lesson-book, I should not have come to this, nor have been thus
let you know what is the respective strength of a Goat and a
lie, commanded that a handsome present be given to the flatterer.
life is still in peril."  At that moment the master himself
life with stones, and those who gave me food
life.
life."
life:  "What would you do without me when next you spread your
lifting up the load, you may place it again upon my shoulders."
light of wing, fled away at his approach; while the Geese, being
lighted a fire, and warmed them.  He let the Horse make free with
lighter, as the water melted the sack.  The Peddler retraced his
like that useless little Lapdog!"
like us in so many things, not be entirely of one mind with us,
likewise inquired of her how she fared; she replied, "I want for
limb should excite your pity.  Besides, I am no Crane, I am a
lime, would be extracted and by which they would be captured.
lion.  When the young Prince saw this, his grief at being thus
listened favorably to these proposals, and, entering the den of
listened to his words, and falling into a ditch, was very much
literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of
little matter now.  will by and by confer on me a greater
little ones, for the man is in earnest this time; he no longer
little pleasant food I have deprived myself of my life."
live near each other.  The Eagle built her nest in the branches
lived.  Thus, the fable of the "Hawk and the Nightingale" is
living, and took up residence in the lakes and pools.  But
loaded him with the loudest applause.  A Countryman in the crowd,
loaded with an abundance of riches."
login:  anonymous
login:  anonymous
long conversations conducted by fictitious characters under the
longer hearing the hour from the cock, woke them up to their work
look at the file size will have to do, but we will try to see a
look together into a mirror that was placed on their mother's
looking upon the Sea, loaded it with reproaches.  He argued that
looking upwards, he unknowingly trod upon a Viper asleep just
looks of aversion."  He said, "O Wife, if you were disliked by
loud cries to Hercules to come and help him.  Hercules, it is
loved and well cared for by men, and they often pat my head and
luxurious, the wrathful, &c.  None of the stories are precisely
made a great stir, and the theater was crowded in every part.
made a trial of him, he answered, "I do not need a trial; I know
made her way into it and began to catch and eat them one by one.
made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year
made use of that which belonged only to girls.  The father
made, the Physician, time after time, applied his salve to her
make loud lamentations.  A neighbor, seeing him overcome with
make me provide the meat also."
make me useful to him."
make the acquaintance of the owner of so magnificent a voice.
make themselves ridiculous.
make you a present of the hare."
making any promises, do all these things.  It is surely better
making wedges of its own branches for dividing the trunk.  The
man hearing this, quickly made his son mount the Ass, and
man is no longer content to scare us, but begins to show us in
man whom he murdered.  On his reaching the river Nile he saw a
man, vexed and ashamed, made the best of his way home again,
manage to pass.  "Save yourself the trouble," said the Bull; "I
mannered dog."
many a field had he plowed) thus spoke:  "These Butchers, it is
many a trap and snare, observed from a safe distance the trick of
many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved
many stories are interwoven on all kinds of subjects.  It has no
marked with an unexceptionable care and attention to their
marketplace.  One day an old hound said to him:  Why do you make
marks of his footsteps or knew where his lair was.  "I will,"
master's house, kicking up his heels without measure, and
master, "You must now go to the war on foot, for you have
master, and his constant companion.  While he hammered away at
master, permit me to live and I will entice many Partridges to
maxim, social duty, or political truth.  The true Fable, if it
may be on may contain errors and defects (collectively, the
me back with the reins.  Away, therefore, with your insolence,
me in an instant; but if you want my fleece and wool, there is
me without a cause, and crop my leaves? Is there no young grass
me! this overestimation of myself is the cause of my
me, Master," he said, "and let me go free this once.  My broken
me, and I have only one wish, that there may be a heavy fall of
me, who am myself always accustomed to fasten upon others."
me."
meal-bag, we will not come near you."
meal.  The File replied, "You must indeed be a simple-minded
meal.  When he finished, he was so full that he was not able to
meaning other than that contained in the words themselves; and
meaning, and that not so much by the use of language, as by the
means of warning themselves of the approach of their great enemy
meat from his own table.  Grateful for these favors, the animals
mediaeval scholars.  There are two celebrated works which might
medium with your request and retain no copies of it.
medium, you must return it with your note, and such person may
member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle,[19]
members and agents harmless from all liability, cost and ex-
men had sown, as it was a plant which boded no good to them.
mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the
mercilessly feed on their flesh and drink their blood without
merry guise, to convey instruction.  Phaedrus, the great imitator
might be dried."  He said to her, "If your sister wishes for rain,
might beat the lion.  But one of the tree's prickles pierced his
might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits.
might know what was said of him among men.  He ordered at the
might no longer be associated with the Ills, as they had nothing
might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of
might read the thoughts of the evil disposed and take precautions
mill instead of going out to battle.  But when he was compelled
million dollars per hour this year we, will have to do four text
million dollars per hour; next year we will have to do four text
mind, and unite to assist each other, you will be as this faggot,
mine ever be in such a plight; for the weight of this chain is
minster Abbey, 1485.[10]  It must be mentioned also that the
mirror every day:  you, my son, that you may not spoil your beauty
mischief."
miserably in our arid homes.  What will be our future condition
misfortunes, and admitted by Augustus to the honors of a
misfortunes.  The other replied, "I am indeed glad that I was
mishap; and he added that the meadows lay where he was standing,
modes of conveying instruction.  Each is distinguished by its own
modification, or addition to the etext, or [C] any Defect.
moment he yawned the third time and set up a terrible howl.  The
moment think of shutting up a Lion along with you in your
money, and sent it back to his master.  The Delphians, enraged at
more hungry will come in their place, and will drink up all the
more timid than ourselves."
more."
morning, at cockcrow.  The maidens, aggravated by such excessive
mortally.  The Eagle gave one look at the arrow that had entered
mortals.  For this purpose he assumed the character of a man and
most beautiful of all."
most imitative of animals, descended from the treetop and
most positive proof the greatness of their mistake.  "Look here,"
most ungrateful creatures! You provide wool to make garments for
mould, and conformed to the same fashion, and stamped with the
mourn, but at once invoke the gods that my life may be
mouth and blew in it.  When the Satyr again inquired the reason,
mouth and galloped away.  The Wolf, being thus fearfully mauled,
mouth and jaws of a wolf."
mouth than he became a laughingstock to all who heard him.  The
mouth, and eyes, when too late, repented of their folly.
much by their own folly they have really brought them on
much to answer for.  They always bark whenever we approach you
must be attacked, fell flat on the ground, and when the Bear came
must die in their company."
my Mother in her ear."  She came close to him, and he quickly
my friend and I must have our dinners."
my mouth, you will be greatly mistaken.  This sudden kindness at
myself from this spider, the most inconsiderable of insects!"
myself in drinking some nectar which Pallas lately gave me.  If
myself, because I know there was no intention to hurt.  But you,
myself, if I had not heard your bray."
narration of a story either founded on facts, or created solely
narrative, that wise choice in the introduction of the animals,
narrative; it will seek, like the Parable, to convey a hidden
natural attributes, and to the qualities attributed to them by
natural instincts, bit its benefactor, inflicting on him a mortal
natural way.  On the morrow a still larger crowd assembled in the
naturally flows, and with which it is intimately associated.
nature as calm and firm even as this earth; but the winds
nature the enemy of all birds.  The Bat assured him that he was
necessities.
neither a narrator, nor an allegorist.  He is a great teacher, a
nest from its hole in the wall ate up the young unfledged
nestlings.  The Swallow, finding her nest empty, lamented greatly
nets? Who would chirp you to sleep, or call for you the covey of
never have indulged your ears at the cost of your belly."
new copy has at least one byte more or less.
next find honors paid to the name and memory of Aesop.  Maximus
next time you touch a Nettle, grasp it boldly, and it will be
no long distance, when the Lion, turning about, seized him and
no purpose the burden of life, as of all the trees that grow we
no unnecessary pain.  If we get rid of them, we shall fall into
nobody, and lost his Ass in the bargain.
none but those who work are entitled to eat?'
nook, and flying down, greedily seized him.  The Serpent, turning
nor a necessary work to make himself such a house as would
nor are you stronger than I am.  For in what does your strength
nose, and drawing it backwards and forwards said, "O most
not I, he would have taken thee up, and have set thee in thy
not a bird, but a mouse, and thus was set free.  Shortly
not allow it to grow.  She said acorns would produce mistletoe,
not be grievous to me, if I could only see my Enemy die before
not have thought so," said the other, "by the way you load him.
not known.  He sold a drug, pretending that it was an antidote to
not make the slightest use of it."
not retain his hold because of the decay of his teeth, so that
not want to be rid of them?'  "No," returned the Fox, "for these
not yourself lost your tail, my friend, you would not thus
notes, and an Essay on Fable. Birmingham, 1864.  P.  60.
nothing at all; while I am everywhere used for roofs and houses."
nothing but lies, were traveling together and by chance came to
nothing, and have only one wish, that the dry weather may
notice that there are many prints of feet entering your cave, but
number of Cranes, which came to pick up his seed.  With them he
number.  The remaining birds at once forsook his fields, crying
nurtured and reared in spite of the neglect to which it was
oak, Venus the myrtle, Apollo the laurel, Cybele the pine, and
observed that the Elephant shook his ears very often, and he
observing all that has passed, said, "So help me, Hercules, he
obtained from ancient authors prior to the time in which he
occasionally incorporated with the editions of Phaedrus.
of Aesop, plainly indicates this double purpose to be the true
of Antioch, A.D. 315, wrote a treatise on, and converted into
of Aristophanes, line 808.
of Athens).  Supposing that a man was meant, the Monkey answered
of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.[12]  The
of Jerusalem, but of a considerably later origin, and existing
of a benefactor who bestowed wealth and helped to heap up riches.
of a sudden by the cries of the enemy.  He appealed to the Ass to
of a tall tree, while the Fox crept into the underwood and there
of another Dog, with a piece of meat double his own in size.  He
of cleaning, and subjected the man to incessant scrubbings.  The
of cowardice or courage, of generosity or rapacity.
of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures
of fortune and called to mind his former state, saying, "Ah!
of good omen and always attracted the attention of men, who noted
of great evil to you, unless you willingly resign it to me, and
of her son.  She resolutely said, "I know not whether Jupiter
of her young than for her inability to avenge them.  A just
of his flock rather than as a plotter of evil against it; and
of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor.
of his livelihood, he sat down on the bank and lamented his hard
of incomplete, inaccurate or corrupt data, transcription errors,
of instruments becoming his profession, went to call on them.  He
of it.  The Monkey approached carelessly and was caught in the
of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has
of mutton for their dinner.  Approaching them, he said, "What a
of sinking, the one in the stern inquired of the pilot which of
of some terrible calamity, out came a Mouse.
of song.  But having heard the neigh of the horse, they were so
of stealing something which should enable him to pay his
of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of
of that monster."
of the Crane at every mouthful, and his vexation at not being
of the Farmer who had captured him.  It was the time of the wheat
of the animals deserved the most credit for producing the
of the evils of disunion; and for this purpose he one day told
of the face devoid of hair.  While trying to crush him, the Lion
of the field came again a few days later and saw the wheat
of the flock.  When the Shepherd returned to find his flock
of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This
of the sheep, and, without saying a word, quietly took his
of the strong."  And after the Hare said this, he ran for his
of the waves, and suggested that they contract an alliance,
of the year 2001.
of their master.
of throwing himself over, his owner seized him by the tail,
of to reach the water, but all his efforts were in vain.  At last
of which the crew and passengers were all drowned.  He inveighed
of wind blew off his hat and wig, at which a loud laugh rang
of yawning and again howled like a wolf, as he had at first.  The
of yore, for it is the common lot of mortals to sustain the ups
of your ancestors will be able to contradict you."
off as fast as he could.  The Hunter ran after him, as if he was
office of the writer of fables.
often pondered how she might obtain two eggs daily instead of
often releases Etexts that are NOT placed in the Public Domain!!
old age in these days? Do you see that idle lad riding while his
old father has to walk? Get down, you young scapegrace, and let
old man, was equally zealous in removing every gray hair she
omnia. Amsterdam. 1709.
on all the fables in this collection.  Many of them lack that
on her Brother, and spitefully accused him of having, as a boy,
on her.  She was in the habit of waking them early in the
on purpose in the same spot, and, regaining his feet with the
on seeing this, charged his sling with stones, and killed a great
on the Eagle," by Archilochus.[6]  Many of them again are of later
on the fruits of my exertions."  The Housedog replied, "Do not
on the land, when by my nature and habits I am only adapted for
on the surface, tied to the foot of the Frog.  A Hawk observed
on their return from the forest asked the Ass to allot his due
on these fables,[11] by causing the interpolation with them of
on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal
once made up their quarrel, saying, "It is better for us to make
one by one with his beak into the pitcher, until he brought the
one criminal perchance sailing in the ship allow so many innocent
one fled away; the other stood his ground and defended himself
one he had lost.  On his saying that it was not his, Mercury
one of her sons, inquired of his brothers what had become of him.
one of my imputations."  The tyrant will always find a pretext for
one of the bystanders.
one that was most idle and the greatest eater of them all.
one, and at last, to gain her purpose, determined to give the Hen
only I am in search of, not the Lion himself."
only in Latin.  It is divided into four books, and consists of
only secure my own escape from him in safety."
only served as a harbor for the sparrows and grasshoppers.  He
only to be looked for that we, who just now were over-rejoiced,
only to serve the turn of a Fox."
opened the door, and they both ran off squeaking, as fast as they
opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the
opinion.  The Ox took under his patronage the next term of life,
opportunity, fell upon the sheep, and destroyed the greater part
opposition.  Dr. Bentley[18] met with an able antagonist in a
or cd etext/articles [get suggest gut for more information]
or cd etext/articles [get suggest gut for more information]
or cd etext92
or cd etext92 [for new books]  [now also cd etext/etext92]
or cd etext93 [for new books]  [now also in cd etext/etext93]
or codes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment.  But
or hound, and her injured eye towards the sea, from whence she
or hound.  He replied, "I do it advisedly; for it would never do
ordained that he be sold to a tanner.  The Ass found that he had
order to secure food more easily.  Encased in the skin of a
origin, and are to be traced to the monks of the middle ages:  and
other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to
other infringement, a defective or damaged disk, computer virus,
other of my former masters, than to have been bought by my
other to a tile-maker.  After a time he went to the daughter who
others came to Sardis, the capital of the famous king of Lydia,
others, and yet are often blind to their own failings.
others.
others."
out a helping hand, the man stood by unconcernedly, and scolded
out his hand to take him.  The Scorpion, showing his sting, said:
out of her senses, she crept down to the cave of the Sow, and
out of the window, and the Wolf shall eat you."  The Wolf sat all
out with your litter to find food, the Eagle is prepared to
out."
outside the hole.  The Mouse peeped out, crept furtively up his
outstrip me in your rapid flight.  How then shall I be able to
over all the beasts of the forest, and what a disgrace it is,
over every portion of their land.  They found no treasure, but
over his loss, the Father resolved to kill the Snake.  The next
over them another sovereign.  He then gave them an Eel to govern
over to the teeth and claws of his companions.
over.  There is one other yet to pass through the shed, who has
overboard, and barely escaped with his life in the empty ship.
overcome with heat, undressed and bathed in a stream that lay in
overturned in a housekeeper's room, and placing their feet in it,
own goats just sufficient food to keep them alive, but fed the
own hard fate.  Just as they were beginning to eat, someone
own hospitality.
own race, consorted exclusively with the lions.  An old sly Fox,
own shadow reflected in the water, he greatly admired the size
own wings."
owned by two masters in succession, both inhabitants of Samos,
owner.  On being asked how, in so short a time, he could have
owners, wounded with a sword the Mule carrying the treasure,
paid no attention to the request.  The Ass shortly afterwards
pain, the Lion returned into the forest.  Some time after, the
painted on a signboard.  Not supposing it to be only a picture,
panniers filled with money, the other sacks weighted with grain.
panniers, what matters it to me whom I serve?'
panting convulsively, thus entreated for his life:  "O Sir, what
paroles sont d'un autre."  And again, "C'est donc a Hesiode, que
part he took in the conversations held with these philosophers,
partake of him with me, I shall be delighted to have your
passed through the gully and crushed him to death under its
passing by heard his cries, and coming up, inquired the cause of
passing, and asked him to fetch some water from a stream flowing
password:  your@login
password:  your@login
patrimony and had but one good cloak left.  One day he happened
payment, the Wolf, grinning and grinding his teeth, exclaimed:
peace and reconciliation between us."  The Sheep, poor silly
peace was proclaimed, his deceitful conduct was apparent to both
pecking him with their beaks.  Failing to obtain food among the
pense, including legal fees, that arise by reason of your
people, and gave a public notice that he would handsomely reward
per text is nominally estimated at one dollar, then we produce 2
per text is nominally estimated at one dollar, then we produce a
perceiving his design, stung him in the foot.  In pain the
perching herself on one of the branches, cawed as loudly as she
perfume!"
perished from hunger, and afforded ample provision for the Cat
permission and without paying royalties.  Special rules, set
persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.  Planudes has
person you received it from.  If you received it on a physical
persons in her father's house, he made some excuse to send her
persons to perish.  As he was indulging in these reflections, he
persuaded by these words, accepted him as her mate.  Shortly
petitioned for another change of master.  Jupiter, telling him
philosophers Phaedo, Menippus, and Epictetus, in later times,
pieces.  I know not, sir, when I got this habit of yawning, nor
pillars and posts, and prove yourselves so serviceable to the
pitcher.  Unwilling to lose his filberts, and yet unable to
piteously entreated, saying: "If you would only spare my life, I would
place of his concealment.  Supposing all danger to have passed,
place they should move for safety.  "There is no occasion to move
place to place in every direction, and have sought and learnt
placed for his use; so that he died, not from his sickness, but
placed himself under him, to convey him on his back in safety to
placed in the library in cases under glass, for the inspection of
placed the faggot into the hands of each of them in succession,
placed the hide of the Ass, after he had skinned him.  The Mule,
places, but was obliged to keep them in the fold.  He gave his
placing his paw upon his lap, pulled it out; thus relieved of his
plain, and so intimately interwoven with, and so necessarily
plan, the Eagle, being in want of provision for her young ones,
play with another dog.  The Hare said to him, "I wish you would
pleasant palace and adorned its walls for his amusement with all
pleased every ear with his song, he himself no sooner opened his
pleases?'
pleasure to his friend, the Cook saw him moving about among his
plenty.  I am surrounded by every luxury, and if you will come
plowlands and roots from the hedgerow, where I can live in
point d'apparence que les fables qui portent aujourd'hui son nom
point only.  We live in freedom, but you bow down to and slave
pointed to a figure of himself, saying to the Sculptor, "You will
poor beast replied, not without a touch of reason:  "Why do you
portion to each of the three partners in the treaty.  The Ass
position of high renown.  In his desire alike to instruct and to
possible for even a Mouse to confer benefits on a Lion."
possible on account of the cold, determined to make himself a
possibly do you much harm."  The Man, laughing, replied, "Now you
posthumous honors; for a statue was erected to his memory at
pounce upon in a whole year.
pounce upon one of your little pigs."  Having instilled these
pounced upon him and carried him off in his talons.  The
pour la plupart, quant a la matiere et la pensee; mais les
power of living upon the land."
powerful than you; and if you doubt it, let us fight and see who
powerful, and agreed that he should be declared the victor who
practiced a trade destructive to their race.  They assembled on a
praise of the water, saying it was excellent beyond measure, and
pray wake up:  for if you fall into the well, the blame will be
precious stone and exclaimed:  "If your owner had found thee, and
preface to the volume which we have described, points out that
preliminary version may often be posted for suggestion, comment
preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst
prepared for themselves greater troubles, for their mistress, no
prerogative, and inseparable attribute, the great purpose of
presence of witnesses:  that if he should cure her blindness, he
present blessings.
present owner, who will even after I am dead tan my hide, and
presented himself, and striking the Philosopher with his wand,
presented, with all a mother's tenderness, a flat-nosed,
pretending that he concealed a little pig beneath his clothes
pretending to be angry and shaking his stick at him, said, "You
primary and private interpretation.  On the first occasion of
prime old wine and which still retained the fragrant smell of its
proceed on our journey, my friend, for it is only the caw of a
proceeded far when they met a company of women and children:
proceeded from words to blows, and while the men fought, the Ass
proclaimed to all the beasts that he was a learned physician,
proclaimed war by challenging the Weasels, the newly chosen
proclamation for a general assembly of all the birds and beasts,
produced her young.  Not long after they had agreed upon this
produced some fruit entirely out of season, and waited in the
profit of me."  The Fisherman replied, "I should indeed be a very
projected audience is one hundred million readers.  If our value
projected audience is one hundred million readers.  If our value
prolong his life.  At night they returned home, not dreaming of
prolonged."  She replied, "Alas! my son, which of the gods do you
promise to offer frankincense to Mercury.  Mercury soon appeared
promised a royal reward to the one whose offspring should be
promised amply to repay him the favor which they asked.  The
promised reward.  A general laugh saluted her on the presentation
promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that
properly fed, he went up to their racks and cried out:  "Why is
property little by little.  And when he had got all she had, he
protested, and each plucked from him his own feathers, leaving
provided with teeth, and feet furnished with claws, and I lord it
provoked at their covetousness that he refused to divide the
pry into what is in heaven, do you not manage to see what is on
public domain and licensed works that can be freely distributed
public domain etexts, royalty free copyright licenses, and
publication of this era which most probably has influenced these
publicly advised them to cut off their tails, saying that they
published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller,
published in the fourteenth century by Caesar Heisterbach, a
puffs and advertisements.  When the Cobbler happened to fall sick
pupils, and when arrayed in their rich clothes and masks, they
purchasing it.  However, when the Horseman got the hare, he rode
pure, honorable, and praiseworthy, and to have his indignation
purpose have I," said the bird, "this dumb beauty so long as I am
purpose representation of human motive, and the improvement of
purpose, they divided the term of his life between them, and each
purposely placed his head under the wheels, saying, "At least my
put a bridle in his mouth, and to let a child drive him.
put collars on your necks.  They make you also guard their sheep,
put into the poultry-yard, they struck at it and followed it
put on his charger its military trappings, and mounted, being
put some of these fables into Latin elegiacs, which are given by
quickly drove him down, beating him severely with a thick wooden
quidem proverbiis omnis et totius sapientiae speculum claret et
quite ready; it is you for whom I am waiting."
rain, in order that the plants may be well watered."  Not long
rainbow; while you have not a bit of color on your wings."
raised himself from the indignity of a servile condition to a
rate or corrupt, you may send notice within 90 days of receiving
rather have one barleycorn than all the jewels in the world."
reach the land.  The Lion abused him as a traitor.  The Dolphin
reached the town.    "Pray, honest friend," said a citizen, "is
reaching the very brink, he suddenly jumped in, dragging the
reader.  The Fable partly agrees with, and partly differs from
readily assented and the Fox leaped upon his back.  Steadying
realized that the huge log was motionless, they swam again to the
really must have been out of your senses to fasten yourself on
reason he had called him.  The Old Man hurriedly replied, "That,
reason to lament the loss of their children, whose deaths have
reason why we must the more kill you," they replied; "for when
rebuke of particular classes of men, the boastful, the proud, the
receive this etext from as a PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext) dis-
received it electronically, such person may choose to
received it with a note explaining such Defects.  Such person
reckoning.  When he had waited some days in vain, he saw the
recognized the Shepherd as the man who healed him, and instead of
recover for him the axe he had thrown into the pool.
recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of
reduced to the condition you so lately treated with contempt?'
reeds, caught her.  The Thrush, being at the point of death,
reflection on herself.  She ran off to her father.  to be avenged
reflections."[3]  An equal amount of praise is due for the
refrain from quarreling with each other."
relate to one simple action, consistent with itself, and neither
related by Hesiod;[4] the "Eagle wounded by an Arrow, winged with
relations."
release himself, although he fluttered with his feathers as much
remained, she should give him nothing.  This agreement being
remove if a neighbor proved unpleasant.  Jupiter, indignant at
rendered him by the Eagle.
repeated with great applause, till on one occasion a courtier,
replied the Lion, "but why do you stand without? Pray enter
replied, "I did not know you had come, and I shall not miss you
replied, "I do not heed your threats; I only care for him who
replied, "I had not leisure enough.  I passed the days in
replied, "I indeed, dear Amaranth, flourish but for a brief
replied, "Nay, my friend, blame not me, but Nature, which, while
replied, "No, thank you.  I did not ask that; it is his track
replied, "Thank you.  But I can't think that you, who refuse me a
replied, "That I might attain your royal hand, there is nothing
replied, "The arrangement is impossible as far as I am concerned,
replied, "You do not see the difference between us:  I was only
replied:  "Quite true, dear Mother; and if you will show me the
reprinted in 1851.  This work consists of conversations in which
reproached his companion, saying, "It is very hard to have all
reproaching himself with his cowardice, wished that he might die.
request and transformed her into a beautiful damsel, so that the
request, the Woodman, no longer afraid, set upon him with his
requested that the Wolf pull it out, lest when he ate him it
requested the Fox to do him the favor to make a division.  The
requested the two others to make the first choice.  The Lion,
resolved to cut it down, and taking his axe in his hand, made a
respective rulers Periander and Pisistratus.  One of these
restored to his friends.
retained our own privileges and have stood for ages."
retribution, however, quickly fell upon the Eagle.  While
return late in the evening, what must have been felt towards you
returning to his own country, of the many wonderful and heroic
revenge, tied some rope well soaked in oil to his tail, and set
reward be given for a lie, with what gift may not I be rewarded,
reward for his learning and wit.  One of the privileges of a
reward she would give him if he would take her aloft and float
right hand and on his left, and that a throne be placed for him,
right to the Shadow.  The owner maintained that he had let the
rightly served for pitying a scoundrel."
rights, and you may also have other rights.
rise to its high requirements, ever aims at one great end and
rising up, and not knowing what to do, was sadly perplexed.  At
roar, came and gnawed the rope with his teeth, and set him free, exclaiming:
roaring out in a rage against him, the Fox sought an opportunity
robbed me; but now that I have discovered the thief, I would
robed, like a king, in gold and purple and all the colors of the
robes, they fought with one another for the nuts.  The dancing
run away and hide themselves in their holes at his approach.  But
running and said, "Oh! you fellow there! you say you can foretell
running for a dinner, but he for his life."
rustic produced the little pig from his cloak and showed by the
sacred character as ambassador, executed him as a public
sacred, took great care of it.
sacrifice, if he should catch you."  On which the Lamb replied,
sad plight under a merry guise, the Fox indulged in a lavish
safe, exulted over my calamity, have now reason to deplore a
safety from danger and more abundant food.  The other refused,
safety, and without fear."
safety, began to express his sincere thanks to the Oxen who had
sages, and is related so to have pleased his royal master, by the
said that he had a kind of entertainment which had never been
said the Wolf, "You feed in my pasture."  "No, good sir," replied
said the Wolves to the Sheep.  "Those evil-disposed Dogs have
said the man, "at once show you the Lion himself."  The Hunter,
said to himself, "I shall no longer distress myself at being
said to the other, "What a singularly useless tree is the Plane!
said, "Ah, my good madam, even though you should turn into a
said, "And are you indeed to make yourself a judge of the
said, "I am rightly served, for why did I attempt the art of
said, "Master, how can you expect the sheep to be safe if you
said, "Pray cease to flow into me, and then you will not be made
said, "Who are you who dare to feed on my limbs, and to cost me
said, "Your children are in great danger; for as soon as you go
said, appeared and thus addressed him:  "Put your shoulders to the
said, groaning:  "It would have been better for me to have been
said:  "I know, friend Wolf, that I must be your prey, but before
said:  "There can henceforth be no peace between us; for whenever
sale.  When no one appeared willing to buy it, in order to
same lineaments, image, and superscription) as to secure to
same time that all the Apes be arranged in a long row on his
sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation,
saw her, and taking a successful aim, mortally wounded her.
saw his anguish and inquired if he should drive away the flies
saying that he felt it so very hard to leave a place to which he
saying that if they were ill, he would be happy to prescribe for
saying that of all the animals they ought to be the best friends,
saying, "Although it hurts me very much, I only touched it
saying, "Pray wait, sir, and hold my clothes, or I shall tear
scalding.  The Man raised one of the dishes a little towards his
scampered off in large numbers to carry out their resolve, the
scanning machines, OCR software, public domain etexts, royalty
scheme for their common escape.  "If," said he, "you will place
sculptors.  Phaedrus thus immortalizes the event:
sea-birds of her hard fate, that no one would teach her to fly.
searched and analyzed, the copyright letters written, etc.  This
searched and analyzed, the copyright letters written, etc.  This
searched every corner of his den to find the Mouse.  A Fox seeing
seashore.  Standing on a projecting rock, he played several tunes
season! If no cruel hand pluck me from my stem, yet I must perish
seated himself in the stem, and the other in the prow of the
second opportunity to receive it electronically, or a refund of
second time of your wings."
secure the means of living by your plunder?'  "Well, I have often
secure.  But the shepherd, returning to the fold during the night
see but a load of wood."
see me you will be thinking of the death of your son."
seeing the Fox, inquired if the water was good.  Concealing his
seeing the rapid disappearance of the Frogs, one of the Hares
seeing them shut up in this prison-house."
seeing this, said, "May I never make myself so ridiculous as you
seem to you?'  "Thou art," he said, "a most excellent Ape, and all
seems to me, sorrow is always the twin sister of joy; and it was
seize what he wants and to run off; and you, too, can quickly
seized her ear with his teeth and bit it off.  The Mother
seized her, and put her to death.
seldom went out to dine without bringing him home some tidbit to
sell him, being such a one as you describe, when you may yourself
sent a Heron, who preyed upon the Frogs day by day till there
sentence:  "I do not think you, Wolf, ever lost what you claim;
separate sentence to explain it; no possibility of impressing it
servant caught a severe cold, but he never changed his color or
servants, hearing the strange hubbub and perceiving the danger of
served, for having let go of the food that I had in my hand for
served; for what business had I who had never handled a net to
service; for when the gold was there, you had it not, as you did
set in again with renewed frost and cold.  When he found the
set off as fast as you can."
settlement of the dispute.  "And you," they said, "how many sons
seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet
several fables never before published.  In the year 1844,
shall certainly die by mine own hands, for no evil, whether it be
shall continue so, if you will only be good enough to go away,
shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this
shall not beat me at that trick!"  and at once proclaimed that he
shall not remain supperless"; and he made a meal of him.
shall now with less scruple take your life, because you are
shall provide the wine to pour over you when you are led as a
share of his spoil.  The Hound, feeling much aggrieved at this,
share which they each had in the affairs of mankind; for the Ills
share, and said that he would no longer find out the prey, but
sharp lookout, or you will lose some of your own flock."
she could find no place of burial for him.  She let him lie
she flew towards it with a loud whir and unwittingly dashed
she had found a store, but had not used it, she had kept it for him
she jumped upon a peg, and suspending herself from it, pretended
she sheared the flesh.  The Sheep, writhing with pain, said, "Why
shedding the grain from excess of ripeness.  He said, "I will
sheep"; but no one paid any heed to his cries, nor rendered any
sheep, he pastured with the flock deceiving the shepherd by his
sheepfold."
shelter and protection from Man.  He received them kindly,
shepherd again consented.  But at last the Bitch, protected by
ship being in danger of sinking, he threw all his merchandise
ship.  A violent storm arose, and with the vessel in great danger
shore they found but few fish:  the nets were full of sand and
shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of
should be seized and killed.
should beg every Dog in the town to bite me."
should fall into it.  The Lion, seeing that the Ass was secured,
should have thanked you fervently if your deeds had been as good
should injure his throat.  The Wolf consented and lifted up the
should next have something to make us sad."
should perish, yet will men never want beef."
should receive from her a sum of money; but if her infirmity
should repay me with these painful requitals!"
shoulders and set out homewards.  On his way he met a man on
shoulders."  "Woe's me!"  said the flea; "this very patting which
shut the gate.  When the Lion found that he could not escape, he
si heureusement, qu'on l'a regarde comme le vrai pere de cette
signified that the two men should be brought before him, and
silent, supposed him to be one of themselves and admitted him to
silver axe in his hand, and again asked the Workman if it were
similar misfortune."
simple fellow if, for the chance of a greater uncertain profit, I
simplicity, he cast down a huge log into the lake.  The Frogs
since the one was the king of beasts on the earth, and the other
singing."  They then said in derision:  "If you were foolish enough
singly:  while the Goods proceed from Jupiter, and are given, not
singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain
sir, pray spare my life, and destroy me not, for I cannot
sits above you, and who quickens my pace with his whip, or holds
sitting had fallen to pieces; and he marveled at the service
size full of acorns, and spreading his cloak under the branches,
size of a lion among wolves, in a herd of lions you are
size that he ran away.  After a time, perceiving the meekness and
skilful introduction of fictitious characters; and yet unlike to
skilled in the use of drugs and able to heal all diseases.  A Fox
slain a fine sheep, my friend; and if you will come home and
slaughter his yoke oxen for food.  On seeing this, his Dogs took
slave for my father and mother.  Look too, at my feathers--
slave for them day by day, while I, being so small a creature,
slightest credit.
slower of flight and heavier in their bodies, were captured.
small hillock, he saw at its foot a Lion feeding on the Calf.
small or large, ought to be tolerated."
small well to drink.  They fiercely disputed which of them should
smile to the Heifer:  "For this you were allowed to live in
so cautious; for if you yesterday treated us better than the
so long as they are not your equals in strength or courage."
so much trouble in catching you?'  The Flea replied, "O my dear
so wild a region, the Muleteer placed upon the Mule the load
soft as silk to your hand, and not in the least hurt you."
soient les memes qu'il avait faites; elles viennent bien de lui
some bread and salt in the hole.  The Snake, slightly hissing,
some distance, at one time biting her with his teeth as if he
some of these fables into verse, but he thus versified only such
some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced
some travelers approaching, the Crow flew up into a tree, and
someone else entered to take something out of a cupboard,
son dismount, and got up himself.  In this manner they had not
song of triumph, flew away.  But shortly afterwards he became
song.  When the time came for killing the Goose, the cook went to
sons would give the same attention to his farm as he himself had
soon found that he had not a hair left on his head.
sorrow, whereupon the young man said, "I wish to say something to
sorte de production."   M. Bayle.  Dictionnaire Historique.
sown with wheat.  For a long time the Farmer, brandishing an
spared his life, fearing for their safety, surrendered to him
speaks the truth in what he says; for I did promise to give him a
special characteristics.  The Tale consists simply in the
spectacle thus came to an end amidst the laughter and ridicule of
speech and related it to his mother, inquiring of her to what
speech, my friend; what you thought right then, think right now.
speech."
speeches succeeded in separating them, he attacked them without
spied the tips of the antlers of the Stag peeping out of the
spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid
sponges became swollen with water, greatly increasing his load.
spring upon the Ass, when the Cock (to the sound of whose voice
squatting on it in contempt.  After some time they began to think
squeak.  The Crowd, however, cried out with one consent that the
squeezing.  They had scarcely begun their repast again when
stable with kicks and clubs and cuffs.  The Ass, as he returned
statement; and that you distribute exact copies of this etext,
statue carved in stone, which represented "a Lion strangled by a
staying so long in one spot, and having well bird-limed his
steps and refilled his panniers with a larger quantity of salt
sticks."
stint?'  The Ox replied:  "I do not wish to be ungrateful, for I am
stones, and the men were beyond measure cast downso much at the
stones, while others, moved with compassion towards one about to
straight way, I will promise to walk in it."  The Mother tried in
stranger.  Not long afterwards he saw the Cocks fighting together
strangers more abundantly in the hope of enticing them to stay
strangle the bird.  A countryman saw them, and running up, loosed
straw.  Then summoning his laborers, he ordered that the Stag
stream, and, bringing up a golden axe, inquired if that were the
stream.  It fell among some Reeds, which it thus addressed:  "I
strength and prowess.  As they were disputing, they passed a
strength of body, and desired yet more, not only refused to give
strength, freed himself with a sudden bound from the pit, and
strength; to the nightingale, song; to the raven, favorable,
stretched at his full length and appeared to himself to be of a
strong enough to cheat you, but which will never reward you with
strong.
strong.  I know whom I may bully and whom I must flatter; and I
struck at by these Gamecocks, when I see that they cannot even
studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810.
stupid clamors of the crowd.  The Governor then called a public
such an exhibition of yourself? That bell that you carry is not,
such as you were when you crept in, and then you will easily get
such inveterate faultfinding, drove him from his office of judge,
such respect for him that he would not even touch his dead body.
such slender and weak feet.  While he was thus contemplating
such vain disputings."
suddenly falling on me create these waves, and lash me into
suddenly he let her go, and she fell on a lofty mountain, dashing
sued in connection with your distribution.
sum of money if I should recover my sight:  but if I continued
summit of a tall cliff, and looking over the sea, saw in the
superabundant crop.
superiority of the counsellor, which often renders counsel
supplied with water, and when they saw it, one of the Frogs said
supposed that he was thus evilly treated because he was a
supposed to have been written by Archilochus, to avenge the
supposing it to be an egg.  Soon afterwards suffering great pain
supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of
sure of overtaking him, but the Horseman increased more and more
surpassed in song?'   "The lot of each," replied Juno, "has been
surrounded by too many dangers to please me.  I prefer my bare
swiftness, so that they unanimously decided to call him "Lion."
swooped down while the Fox was out, seized upon one of the little
table and smashed all the dishes upon it to atoms.  He then
take my life without cause or without inquiry.  I have not slain
take wing.
taking her up in his talons he carried her almost to the clouds
taste it, met with a fitting requital, after the fashion of her
taught me to labor, but to depend for subsistence on the labor of
tax deductible to the extent allowable by law ("IBC" is Illinois
tax deductible to the extent allowable by law ("IBC" is Illinois
teaching of any moral lesson.  The Parable is the designed use of
teeth when there was no danger threatening from either huntsman
tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity
terror:  "Pray, do come and help me; the Wolf is killing the
than before.  When he came again to the stream, the Ass fell down
than he could bear.  He entreated his companion to relieve him of
than he took off one garment after another, and at last, fairly
than us.  So, among other things, this "small print" statement
that Ass your own?'  "Yes," replied the old man.  "O, one would
that I can again turn in a moment from an Ass to a Horse?'
that I would not have promised, however much I knew that I must
that being such as I am, I should be frightened by the crowing of
that follows this statement, you indicate that you agree to and
that hairs which are not mine should fly from me, when they have
that he applied to him an expression which has since passed into
that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop,
that he knew him very well and that he was an intimate friend.
that he nearly died with fear.  On meeting him for the second
that he supposed it would be the prow, the Man said, "Death would
that he was subject to, broke the cords that bound him and,
that he went up to him and commenced a familiar conversation with
that he will be just the same as the one he chose for his
that he would leave soon.  But as he still continued to stay, as
that he would not alarm his master by barking.  As the Thief
that if the Horse would receive a bit in his mouth and agree to
that into the bargain."
that it could at the most be a small boat, and not a ship.  When
that it gave more light than the sun.  Then a sudden puff of wind
that it would be the last time that he could grant his request,
that lay upon the path, and said, "I have found an axe."  "Nay, my
that no dependence can be placed on your valor."
that prior to this publication of M. Mezeriac, the life of Aesop
that she might get the earliest tidings of the approach of hunter
that she must tempt them forth by some device.  For this purpose
that the Mice, being warned by the sound of the tinkling, might
that the Wolf would be his surety.  The Sheep, fearing some fraud
that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and
that the young one which was caressed and loved was smothered by
that their housekeeping expenses would be lessened.  The Fuller
that were tormenting him.  "By no means," replied the Fox; "pray
that when she appears they look to her as knowing all things,
that you would eat the dead and not the living."
the "PROJECT GUTENBERG" trademark.
the "Speculum Sapientiae," attributed to St.  Cyril, Archbishop
the Aesopian fables, we find it to be the same."[1]
the Ass a little in his need, I should not now be bearing,
the Bull dug into the walls with his horns, he tired before he
the Carpenter quickly picked up and said, "Well, I think thou art
the Cat," there was no one found to do it.
the Cat.  Among the many plans suggested, the one that found most
the Cock expostulated in piteous tones from his perch:  "If you
the Countryman to be kicked out of the theater.  On this the
the Crab said, "I well deserve my fate, for what business had I
the Dog and the Hare, should live together in perfect peace and
the Eagle, full of fear of the Sow, sat still on the branches,
the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they
the Fox.  He declared that he had not seen him, and yet pointed,
the Hart began to nibble the tendrils of the Vine.  One of the
the Hawk to defend them.  He at once consented.  When they had
the Jackdaw nothing but a Jackdaw.
the Lamb in a mournful tone of voice, "I was not then born."  Then
the Lamb, "I have not yet tasted grass."  Again said the Wolf,
the Lion fled away as fast as he could.  The Ass, observing his
the Lion had a combat with a wild bull, and called on the Dolphin
the Lion of not paying any respect to him who had the rule over
the Lion, it is said, has a singular aversion) crowed loudly, and
the Literature of Ancient Greece, vol.  i.  pp.  190-193.
the Monkey stood up and danced.  Having vastly delighted the
the Owl to be beside herself and said that she was mad.  But
the Parable.  The fabulist is to create a laugh, but yet, under a
the Red Sea."  "I will teach you to fly then," said the Eagle; and
the Shadow of the Ass.  As this afforded only protection for one,
the Shepherd came down and saw what was done, he said, "O you
the Shepherd.  "Then," said the Ass, "as long as I carry the
the Wolves destroyed the unguarded flock at their own pleasure.
the Wolves, they were set upon and torn to pieces.
the act of reclining to eat, he might attack him to advantage,
the act of seizing her, when a fine young Hart trotted by, and he
the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students
the attack of the man himself?'
the audience.
the bark of a single dog I feel ready to faint, and fly away as
the battle was at its height, a Sprat lifted its head out of the
the beast was as big as that in size."  "Cease, Mother, to puff
the best material for an effective resistance.  A Carpenter, with
the bird exclaimed:  "O unhappy me! who have found in that which I
the bird, set him free.  The Eagle did not prove ungrateful to
the birds found that the sling was only swung in the air, they
the boar escaped.  His master, quickly coming up, was very much
the bodyguard of her Whelps, who had now grown up and were able
the bottom of the tree.  There, in the sight of the Eagle, the
the boy for his imprudence.  "Oh, sir!"  cried the youth, "pray
the bystanders interrupted him, saying:  "Now, my good man, if
the cave sharply attacked him with his horns.  The Bull quietly
the chance of obtaining more."
the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely
the coil of the Serpent and let the Eagle go free.  The Serpent,
the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the
the commencement of the Christian era.  Aphthonius, a rhetorician
the conditions of this "Small Print!" statement.
the conversation began to flag, the Thief yawned terribly and at
the corn-mill and in carrying wood from the forest or burdens
the crowd made lowly prostration before the Image.  The Ass,
the curious.
the current into a very deep ravine, where he lay for a long time
the distance between them.  The Hunter, sorely against his will,
the distance to feast on the one that should fall first.  They at
the etext or a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it.
the exclusion or limitation of consequential damages, so the
the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that
the fable, so conspicuous in the great Greek fabulist.  The exact
the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis
the favourite, and minister of Trajan.  These fables, however,
the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted
the flesh.  The Fox quickly picked it up, and thus addressed the
the fold.  After a long and fruitless search, he made a vow that,
the fortunes of others; how is it you did not foresee your own?'
the gain of which they were assured day by day.
the gate and released the Lion.  On his departure the Farmer
the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of
the great patron, in that day, of learning and of learned men.
the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the
the ground at the point of death.  A Boar rushed upon him, and
the hands of unskillful operators, and thus suffer a double
the head of the Elephant, and he replied, "Do you see that little
the hedge itself.  The Bramble, interrupting him, said, "But you
the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian
the horns of the bull below his eyes, so he might better see
the idol to make him rich, but in spite of his entreaties he
the injury.
the justice of the gods.  Not long afterwards the Horse, having
the land of Apes.  One of the Apes, who had raised himself to be
the master spare not his oxen, who work for his gain, how can we
the means of satisfying his hunger.  He more particularly
the money (if any) you paid to receive it.
the more encouraged, believing them to be true; but now put up
the most beautiful among them to be king.  The Jackdaw, knowing
the most famous of Greek poets, in much obscurity.  Sardis, the
the narration itself; (2) the deduction of the moral; and (3) a
the neighboring hedge lifted up its voice, and said in a boastful
the number of your family, the greater your cause of sorrow, in
the occasion of his death.  Having been sent to Delphi with a
the occasion.  The Ox saw what was being done, and said with a
the old man rest his weary limbs."  Upon this the old man made his
the olive is more dear to me on account of its fruit."  Then said
the ostrich you promised me."  The Kite, soaring aloft into the
the owner released the Ox from his yoke, but bound the Heifer
the oxen from eating the hay which had been placed for them.
the passers-by when a person ran up in great haste, and
the perpetual alarm to which they were exposed, with one accord
the plain, carried his load with ease, but when he began to
the pond warned his friend to change his residence and entreated
the pool at the same place, and sat down on the bank to weep.
the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the
the quantity, and you will readily draw out your hand."
the reflection cast upon her voice, set up a loud caw and dropped
the refund and replacement provisions of this "small print!"
the rich, and then you can catch me again, and make a handsome
the same time howled like a wolf.  The Innkeeper said, "Why do
the sea.  I shall soon become a large fish fit for the tables of
the sea?'
the seasons.  A shower of snow fell upon them, and, finding the
the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made
the shearer, who will shear and not hurt me."
the shore.  When the Dolphin arrived with his burden in sight of
the snare, she replied, "O Monkey, and are you, with such a mind
the summer's heat, they left it and set out together for another
the tale, but also to practice and to perfect themselves thereby
the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of
the too great affection of the Mother, while the despised one was
the two ends of the ship would go down first.  On his replying
the two.  The Leopard exhibited one by one the various spots
the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin
the vines repaid their labor by an extraordinary and
the war was over, he only allowed him chaff to eat and made him
the water alike refused shelter to a murderer.
the writings that bear his name.
the year 620 B.C., and to have been by birth a slave.  He was
the year I shall have money enough from my share to buy a new
theater, but now partiality for their favorite actor very
thee, who hast disowned and wronged thy former patron?'
thee."  The wounded Lion rushed away in great fear, and when a Fox
their being composed they were intended to refer to some passing
their color, while through want of food he perished.
their cote.  But when one day he forgot himself and began to
their flocks and begged only for their lives.  To them the
their master, quickly relieved him, and drove out the Ass to his
their mutual protection, went out into the forest to hunt.  They
their nets into a river, and narrowly watched their proceedings.
their own accord dance into his net, which he had placed below.
their past folly.
their path.  One of them climbed up quickly into a tree and
their plentiful maintenance.  The Doves, as long as he was
their resolve and refused their assistance to the Belly.  The
their scholars, not only inviting them to discuss the moral of
their shoulders over a bridge near the entrance to the town.
their strength, and were not able to do it.  He next opened the
them all and of not coming to visit him.  At that very moment the
them all by his performance that they elected him their King.  A
them and cure them.  They replied, "We are all very well, and
them at once resolved to try and secure the same good fortune for
them down with its weight, at once despoiling it of its beauty
them for their pains.  The Wolf, however, did truly come at last.
them from their hiding-places, and in the scuffle with their
them into his sons' hands, upon which they broke them easily.  He
them produce finer grapes.  The Wasps said that they would keep
them to bring him a bundle of sticks.  When they had done so, he
them to pieces in my fury, when I turn into a wolf."  At the same
them, "If you go on in this way, you will soon destroy by
them, "it proves what I was a-saying.  What respect is shown to
them, and seizing the Kid scampered off as fast as he could.  The
them, but wearied herself in vain, for she could not reach them.
them, when one of the Frogs, lifting his head out of the water,
them.  The Sea, assuming the form of a woman, replied to him:
them.  When the Frogs discovered his easy good nature, they sent
them.  When the Satyr asked the reason for this, he told him that
themselves down at noon under the widespreading branches of a
themselves ill-treated in the appointment of so inert a Ruler,
themselves in the depths of the pool.  But as soon as they
themselves, and were suffocated.  Just as they were expiring,
themselves."
then addressed them in these words:  "My sons, if you are of one
there gaping? Everything is ready but you, so come with me
there is a great treasure hid in one of my vineyards."  The sons,
there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove
there such a scarcity of fodder? There is not half enough straw
there, broke in the tiling.  The owner went up after him and
there," cried one of them, "did you ever see such fellows, to be
thereby to make himself the most beautiful of all.  When the
therefore remain unbroken, and escape."
these fables.  Phaedrus, a slave by birth or by subsequent
these thy companions after thy example are excellent Apes too."
these wedges made from my own branches."
these words said to her brood, "It is time now to be off, my
they agreed that the Fox should choose the course and fix the
they are not the least like those of a Crane."   The Farmer
they exclaimed, "O foolish creatures that we are, for the sake of
they journeyed, they passed through a cemetery full of monuments.
they looked was driven nearer to shore by the wind, they found
they talked, the Man put his fingers to his mouth and blew on
they were accustomed to find their food.  After this, he
they were playing one day as children, they happened by chance to
thing is wrong with your copy.
things went with her.  She said, "All things are prospering with
think will pity you? Is there one whom you have not outraged by
thinking that he had a capital opportunity, accused the Fox to
thinking that they bowed their heads in token of respect for
third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled
thirst, thoughtlessly jumped down, but just as he drank, the Fox
this be all true there is no need of witnesses.  Suppose this
this fable as existing before his day.  See Scholiast on the Aves
this labor, while you, who do not assist in the chase, luxuriate
this man, being on foot, would contrive darts armed with feathers
this milk will be sold, will buy at least three hundred eggs.
this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning,
this treatment, accused him of impiety, and, in spite of his
this way, you would have had your deserts from his sharp teeth."
this:  I have taken you with these robbers, the Cranes, and you
thorn, when the Ass, with his heels, kicked his teeth into his
thorn-tree, meaning to cut a stick from its branches so that he
those of Aesop, and none have the concinnity, terseness, and
those who go out early in the morning with their flocks and
thou who mockest me, but the roof on which thou art standing."
though I be silent."
though thus originating in special events, and designed at first
thought so little of, for I have lost nothing, nor am I hurt with
thought that they gave him this name in earnest, and, leaving his
threw him the pieces of meat, the Dog said, "If you think to stop
threw it into the river, but became tangled in the meshes and
threw them upon the stage.  The Monkeys at the sight of the nuts
through a hedge he had trod with his foot upon a sharp thorn.  He
throwing down his load, besought "Death" to come.  "Death"
thrown on me, and I shall get an ill name among mortals; for I
thus hoping to become rich all at once, deprived themselves of
thus prolong my life to a good old age."
thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy
tial damages, so the above disclaimers and exclusions may not
till you can deceive others who do not know you.  I, indeed, who
time escaped.
time the same exchange day after day.  Finally a neighbor said to
time went on, the rich man became accustomed to the smell, and
time, he was still much alarmed, but not to the same extent as at
tiny insect, see what you have done to yourself to add insult to
tion of this etext by you, whether or not for profit or under
title of the book is this:  "Speculum Sapientiae, B.  Cyrilli
to IBC, too)
to IBC, too)
to Jupiter, and besought him to give him horns.  Jupiter, vexed
to Phalaris.  In a similar manner, the fable from Phaedrus, the
to a Lion.  The Lion concealed himself on seeing her approach,
to a neighboring cedar, "The first step has lost us all.  If we
to all who do not administer to his comfort or to his
to back off at the first attack he replied:  "You counsel me in
to be Rhodes, and leap for us."
to be afraid, she kept a lookout all through the day.  Meanwhile,
to be dead.  One of the Mice, peeping stealthily out, saw her and
to be in good condition, you should groom me less, and feed me
to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The
to be spared his life.  The Weasel refused, saying that he was by
to bite them without notice.  His master suspended a bell about
to catch the Hart, and returned to feed upon the Hare.  On
to caution the inhabitants of Himera against granting a bodyguard
to change her into the form of a woman.  Venus consented to her
to commerce.  He sold all his flock, invested it in a cargo of
to defend himself and said, "And who of all those who have come
to defend themselves, asserted her exclusive right to the place
to each other, "It is time for us to be off to Liliput:  for this
to fall into the water, Dame Fortune, it is said, appeared to him
to get any etext selected, entered, proofread, edited, copyright
to get any etext selected, entered, proofread, edited, copyright
to grind instead of serving in the wars, he bewailed his change
to harm the Fox.  Then, upon assuring the Ass that he would not
to have to sharpen my weapons just at the time I ought to be
to help him with his harvest is not really in earnest."  The owner
to help him.  The Dolphin, though quite willing to give him
to help me with my harvest."  One of the young Larks heard his
to his axe from it, than he began to use it and quickly felled
to his den, and lying down there, pretended to be sick, taking
to his friend:  "Although you have prepared for me so dainty a
to his stall beaten nearly to death, thus lamented:  "I have
to identify, transcribe and proofread public domain works.
to its widest extent, swallowed it down with the utmost relish,
to me a most mighty king."  "And what is your estimate of those
to me."  Upon which the Wolf seized him and ate him up, saying,
to meet special circumstances, are so admirably constructed as to
to mind the axes and saws which are about to hew you down, you
to move another step.  The driver, seeing him thus stop, laid his
to obtain meat for the next day, mistakenly caught up the Wolf
to pay us if you distribute using our trademark, and if we get
to pick out a fine young Cock just attaining to his comb.  But
to receive from me any repayment of your favor; now you know that it is
to see a Swallow, which had appeared before its season, skimming
to seize them, the Shepherd began to look upon him as a guardian
to sell him.  They had not gone far when they met with a troop of
to shut up a wolf with them, when his Dog perceiving the wolf
to sing all the summer, you must dance supperless to bed in the
to snatch a lamb from the fold, but he himself fell prey to the
to spare it, and they would sing to him and lighten his labors.
to take an active interest in public affairs; and Aesop, like the
to take from everyone, and never to give anything in return."
to take my honey, I may kill him."  Jupiter was much displeased,
to test his skill.  For this purpose he called for a cup, and
to the Lion, stood on the outside of the cave, at a respectful
to the farmhouse, when she fell a-musing.  "The money for which
to the other, "Let us descend and make our abode in this well:  it
to the same place, to find that the wall under which he had been
to the shore; but he could not prevent the smaller fish from
to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is
to town with his friend.  On his arrival, the Town Mouse placed
to visit the bird-trap in the morning?'  He replied, "What you say
to visit their king, except the Fox.  The Wolf therefore,
to which had made the most perfect work.  They agreed to appoint
to which he was exposed, he schemed to convince all the other
to you have benefited you so much as I, who have traveled from
to you to be, O strangers?'  The Lying Traveler replied, "You seem
together and with the help of a pole endeavored to carry him on
together to consider the best means of protecting it from the
together with his burden, himself as well."
together with his own for the night.  The next day it snowed very
together.  The Tortoise never for a moment stopped, but went on
tolerant only of his own household, but averse to strangers and
tom the soles of his feet, he accused the Bramble because, when
tone:  "I must have made a mistake; my father, after all, could
tone:  "Pray, my dear friends, in my presence at least cease from
top of the water, dismissed their fears, climbed up, and began
tore him to pieces.
tore himself with his claws, until he punished himself severely.
tormented him with reflections on his unhappy fate in being
touching them with his hands.  The whelp of a Wolf was brought
toute."
tradition.  Socrates is mentioned by Plato[8] as having employed
transformed me from a Horse into an Ass; and how can you expect
translated by Robert Dodsley, accompanied with a selection of
translated into prose.  Avienus, also a contemporary of Ausonius,
trap, and leading the Monkey to the place where it was, said that
trap; and on his accusing the Fox of purposely leading him into
trapped a Stork that had fractured his leg in the net and was
traveling cloak said, "I'll at him, and I'll take care he shall
treated her, she replied, "The herdsmen and shepherds cast on me
treated these poor Ants?'
treatment from thee, a disgrace to Nature, is indeed to die a
tree in company with a Kite.  "Why," said the Kite, "do I see you
tree, he found a hive full of honey.  Having tasted the
trees not yielding fruit, inquired the reason for their choice.
trees to be under their special protection.  Jupiter chose the
tremor every now and then.  Just at that moment a Gnat settled on
trepidation at the mere crowing of a Cock summoned courage to
trudging along the road on foot when they might ride?'  The old
true, O Jupiter!"  he said, "that I am gigantic in strength,
true, slaughter us, but they do so with skillful hands, and with
trunk.  A Fox passing by asked him why he thus sharpened his
trust my sheep to a Wolf?'
trusts his friends, but will reap the field himself."
truth, I drank so much wine that I remember nothing.  I do not
truth, and is so full of absurd pictures of the grotesque
try and catch fish?'
try."  So, alighting with his son, they tied the legs of the Ass
trying to neigh, they forgot how to sing.
tumbling off the pole, fell into the river.  Upon this, the old
turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on the
turn, asked the Fox to sup with him, and set before her a flagon
turned piper to please you."
turned to him.  "And pray how do I and these my friends around me
turning about, said to him:  "That is the very reason why we are
turning very pale and chattering with his teeth from fear,
tutor to Louis XIII of France, from his desire to devote himself
twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery
unauthorized distribution of a work that is not in the public
unceasing warfare; and that an indissoluble law might be laid
unceasingly with his stings, wounded him to death.  The Snake,
under the Project's "PROJECT GUTENBERG" trademark.
under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies
under the paw of the Lion."
under the water and drowned him.
under the weight, no longer equal to the burden, and said to his
understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with
undertook to distribute the prey, and for this purpose divided it
undone."  "Nay," replied the other, "keep to your first mode of
undoubtedly selected.
unexpected favors to myself, you have some private ends to
unfold a tail gorgeous with painted plumage."  "But for what
unfortunate Swallow lifeless on the ground, he said, "Unhappy
unfortunately.  The Wild Sow, whom you see daily digging up the
uninjured by all the attempts of your enemies; but if you are
uninterred for five days, and on the sixth day, not knowing what
unison with her thoughts, when down fell the milk pail to the
unity of design, that close connection of the moral with the
universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers
universal popular consent.  The Fox should be always cunning, the
unmistakable deduction of the lesson intended to be taught by
unpalatable, is kept out of view, and the lesson comes with the
unpleasant smell of the tan-yard, he pressed his neighbor to go
unruffled calm of the Sea, he interrupted him and said, "It is
unsuspected danger.
until at last, resigning all hope of victory, the Wind called
until they made a public reparation of their crime; and, "The
up and felt him with his snout, and smelt him all over, he held
up angrily, he caught him and was about to kill him, when the Mouse
up for his own deprivation.  He assembled a good many Foxes and
up the chase.  A goat-herd seeing him stop, mocked him, saying
up the river, but it happened that they burst themselves with
up to a group of old men in earnest debate.  "There," said one of
up to date first edition [xxxxx10x.xxx] please check file sizes
up to him and caught him.  When too late, he thus reproached
up to them?'
up with his hounds and inquired of the Woodcutter if he had seen
up, perched himself on the branches of a tree, while the Dog
upbraided him as an unnatural child, whereon he replied, "Ah! if
upon the Sun to see what he could do.  The Sun suddenly shone out
us, and we do not cry out."  To this the Pig replied, "Your
us."
use I gave credence to the words of a woman!"
use will effect the Project's reputation, your right to copy and
using them."
utmost speed, as long as the plain was smooth and open kept
utterly ridiculous a manner that the Beasts, in a fit of
vain, and submitted without remonstrance to the reproof of her
vain; for if he sends so fearful a messenger, how shall I abide
valuable goods:  but now, though he swears I am cured of my
vanquished Cock immediately came out of his corner, and ruled
variety of circumstances.  The moral or lesson should be so
various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new
various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at
various statues, he demanded the price of two figures of Jupiter
various versions of the fables.  Ausonius,[9] the friend of the
vengeance on their persecutors.  They entreated Jupiter that they
veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This
verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of
very great amusement."
very much bruised, sick, and unable to move.  A swarm of hungry
very same axe that he had lost.  Mercury, displeased at his
very slowly."
vessel.  Determined to keep as far apart as possible, the one
victim to the sacrifice."
victors.  The Mice thought that the cause of their frequent
violent dispute arose between them as to which of them had the
violent tempest arose in which the ship was wrecked and he, his
vipers which, when they shall have grown, will inflict injury on
visit, found the hole empty and began to tear his hair and to
visited her, to pull out some portion of his black hairs.  The
visited in this disguise a Sculptor's studio having looked at
visits to the spot and decided to watch his movements.  He soon
voice than he exclaimed, "I might possibly have been frightened
volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum
wage war successfully with the hugest beasts, should perish
wake them up in the night to their work."  "That is the very
waking my porter, so that he may open the door and let you in."
waking up, and moving as fast as he could, he saw the Tortoise
wanted, said, "If you would be cured, take a piece of bread, and
wanting."
wants, while you do nothing but take your rest, and enjoy
warm, nourished them into life.  A Swallow, observing what she
warning:  "O unhappy creature! why should you thus, of your own
was congratulating himself and wagging his tail to convey his
was crossing through the water he lost his footing, stumbled and
was done and nothing was found, they cheered the actor, and
was from the pen of Maximus Planudes, a monk of Constantinople,
was greatly disturbed by the noise of a Grasshopper and earnestly
was intended, excused herself, saying, "The Wolf is accustomed to
was neither wrathful, cruel, nor tyrannical, but just and gentle
was not safe, he flew toward him and with his talons snatched a
was physically damaged when you received it, you may return it
was soon suffocated by the water, and his dead body floated about
was the matter.  While they were assembled in anxious expectation
was the sovereign ruler of all the inhabitants of the ocean.  The
watch over his movements.  But when the Wolf, day after day, kept
water and began to pelt them with stones.  They killed several of
water within his reach and thus saved his life.
water, and traversed by a country road.  The Frog that lived in
water, flew to it with delight.  When he reached it, he
waves and said that he would reconcile their differences if they
we are, and how we prevail over even the king of beasts."  The
we get out again from so great a depth?'
we had not known who you were, and with whom you were fighting."
we on the contrary bend before the least breath of air, and
wearied with his long journey.  He sat down by the wayside, and
weight of his load much diminished, brayed triumphantly as if he
well advanced in years.  The elder woman, ashamed to be courted
well and made off as fast as he could.  When the Goat upbraided
well away, the Fox departed without taking any notice of the
well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he
well.  While he lamented and bewailed his sores and bruises, and
went to look at daily.  One of his workmen observed his frequent
were accustomed to give the Fables of Aesop as an exercise to
were an enemy.  When the Ass saw that the huge beast could be
were despised, the Owl attacked the chatterer by a stratagem.
were heard, and crowds of people came from all parts to see what
were most renowned for their family descent, strength, and
were none left to croak upon the lake.
were terrified at the splash occasioned by its fall and hid
were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's
were to forego my present certain gain."
were willing to help him in punishing the Stag.  The man replied
what I deserve; for I, who am only a butcher, should not have
what had happened said:  "Hark ye, old fellow, why, in striving to
what it was the Bear had whispered in his ear.  "He gave me this
what we do is useful, the glory of it is vain."
whatever else you can think of.  Money should be paid to "Pro-
whatever she should ask.  She therefore besought him, saying,
wheat.  The brood had almost grown to their full strength and
wheels sank down deep into a rut.  The rustic driver, stupefied
wheels, my man.  Goad on your bullocks, and never more pray to me
wheels.
when a great rout overwhelmed the Mice, who scampered off as fast
when he saw a Scorpion, and mistaking him for a locust, reached
when occasion called him one day into the city, he left the sheep
when poultry will fetch the highest price, so that by the end of
when she recovered her sight and saw none of her goods in her
when the Mice further debated who among them should thus "bell
when you go away."
where he had no chance of reaching her.  He called to her and
where she might litter.  When her request was granted, she
where to strike.  He then condemned the work of Jupiter, because
whereupon the two Mice, more frightened than before, ran away and
wherever he went.  Thinking it a mark of distinction, the Dog
whether it is the cub of a Fox, or the whelp of a Wolf, but this
whether these attacks of howling were inflicted on me as a
which I may dance."  The Wolf complied, and while he was piping
which Julianus Titianus, a contemporary writer of no great name,
which constitute the charm and excellency of true Aesopian fable.
which decorated his skin.  But the Fox, interrupting him, said,
which have proved my destruction."
which he grasped at in the water, because it was a shadow; and
which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one
which is 10% of the expected number of computer users by the end
which may or may not bear a special reference to the hearer, or
which the Lion jeeringly replied, "It was righteously yours, eh?
which the Mouse said, "The great do not always prevail.  There
which the new animal left all the others and at once joined the
which the weak shall take their place with impunity by the side
which they greedily seized while taking no notice of the grain.
which treatment the Eagle was weighed down with grief.  Later,
which would fly faster than the wings of the Birds themselves.
which you are exposed:  for if you did not make such excellent
while I purposed to hunt another, I am myself fallen unawares
while filling it with water, pretended to mix poison with the
while she no longer gives them advice, but in solitude laments
whip lustily about his shoulders and said, "O you perverse
who are able to discern them.
who bound him by strong ropes to the ground. The Mouse, recognizing his
who can."
who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest
who had seen it all happen told him to be of good courage and not
who injured me."
who might heal him.  A friend, meeting him and learning what he
who revilest me; but this mischance which has befallen me."
who saw him do it and whom he could call as witnesses.  One of
who was sent on an embassy to Venice by the Byzantine Emperor
whole Body quickly became debilitated, and the hands, feet,
whom he sought to make his prey.  An archer, who saw the Eagle
whom no one could employ to make even the shoes for their feet."
whom they stole, and got off as fast as they could.  Upon
wife, the Frogs lifted up their voices in clamor to the sky.
will allot the prize to my son, but this I do know, that he is at
will conquer."  The Gnat, having sounded his horn, fastened
will enjoy them in common, till we all are surfeited."  The Dogs
will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the
will find means to provide myself with meat."  "Yes," said the
will furnish us with shelter and food."  The other replied with
will give you, in his or its discretion, a replacement copy of
willing to save it at the cost of betraying your friends and
willingly add a full-grown Bull to the Calf I have lost, if I may
wind, I will beat you in a race."  The Hare, believing her
wings and put him into his poultry-yard with the other birds, at
winter."
winter."
wish to retain the fruits of his own sport."
wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to
wishes?'
wishing to take his fleece and to avoid expense, she sheared him
with a long narrow mouth, so that he could easily insert his neck
with a slow but steady pace straight to the end of the course.
with all his warmth.  The Traveler no sooner felt his genial rays
with cords and led him away to the altar to be slain in honor of
with fish.  The Huntsman wished to have the fish, and their owner
with food by force, resolved to do so by artifice.  He returned
with him and of making them his own.  When the thaw set in, he
with him, saying that they should be far better neighbors and
with his stout right hand.  The Robber being slain, the timid
with his strokes the noblest giants of the forest.  An old oak,
with his voice that the audience declared he had a porker under
with me tonight."  The Dog thus invited went at the hour
with me, as I wish you would, you shall have an ample share of my
with men, built herself a nest in the wall of a Court of Justice
with quiet and easy step.  All of a sudden Robbers rushed upon
with such a rueful look?'  "I seek," she replied, "a mate suitable
with the Kid lying untouched in the middle.  He ran in between
with the endowments allotted to them."
with the hire of the Ass, hired his Shadow also.  The quarrel
with their teeth.  A Fox, seeing them, said, "If this lion were
with two bags suspended from his neck   all bag in front full of
with wings and clouds, who can with difficulty move about on the
with your charcoal."
with your copy of this etext, even if what's wrong is not our
withdraw his hand, he burst into tears and bitterly lamented his
within 90 days of receiving it to the person from whom you
within to talk with me."  "No, thank you," said the Fox.  "I
without ceremony out of the window.  He fell with force upon the
witnessed the capture of the lamb, was stirred with envy and
wolf and attack men."  With this speech he commenced a second fit
wolves, who exceeded all his fellow-wolves in strength, size, and
women at the same time.  One of them was young, and the other
women collected round a well, talking and laughing.  "Look
wonder how you, who are so light and weak, are not entirely
wood he became entangled by his horns, and the Lion quickly came
wood, or the beasts of the forest, that the reader shall receive
wool? If you want my flesh, there is the butcher, who will kill
words, that many of these fables must have been at least
words, went home, gasping with cold and hunger.  When he reached
work in us such a change, and make us salty and unfit to drink?"
worthy of notice, as it illustrates a custom of common use, both
would accept him as an umpire.  One of the Dolphins replied, "We
would capture it on his own account.  The next day he attempted
would do the same thing on the next day, though in a much more
would far rather be destroyed in our battle with each other than
would have reason to wish that you had grown up a Bramble, not a
would have saved me I despised, and I gloried in these antlers
would not only look much better without them, but that they would
would not pass unpunished.  Neither did the great fabulist lack
would offer a lamb in sacrifice to Hermes, Pan, and the Guardian
would take her life, and at another fawning upon her, as if in
wound.  "Oh," cried the Farmer with his last breath, "I am
wounded and fell dead on the battlefield.  Then the Ass, seeing
wretched creature that I am! to take such precaution against the
wretched little sluggard! what shall I do to you? While I am
written A.D.  1658, at the request of the celebrated M. Balzac
written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then
yard, caught him at last, and being determined to take an ample
years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern
yesterday, and you all laughed heartily, as if it afforded you
yet a third time to Jupiter to beg him to choose for them still
yet this collection, though thus made up of fables both earlier
yet, my son," she replied; "the man who only sends to his friends
yielded to any beast of the forest, encountered in his old age a
you are a friend, why do you bite me so hard? If an enemy, why do
you are responsible.  This provision applies to every distribu-
you are treated:  at one time grinding in the mill, and at another
you can think of.  Money should be paid to "Project Gutenberg
you do not dislike it, come to me and we will drink it together."
you fawn on me?'
you had beaten me when I first stole and brought to you that
you have not only killed yourself, but you have wrought my
you howl so fearfully?'  "I will tell you," said the Thief, "but
you in recompense for your mercy to me."  The Fowler replied, "I
you like, whenever it happens to me, brings with it my inevitable
you not know that labor is the source of every blessing, and that
you see around me?'  "These," he made answer, "are worthy
you should be put to death," they said; "for, while you do not
you wake your neighbors, you entirely put an end to our
you will be persuaded by us, you will give us the sheep, and we
you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
you, but of the Lion.  Let that monster go away and I will soon
you, ought to cry out."
you, while receiving benefits from me and resting under my shade,
you.  This "small print" statement gives you specific legal
you?'  With these words he stretched out his hands toward a
young ones which she had hatched.  A Crow hearing her, said:  "My
younger, on the contrary, not wishing to become the wife of an
your back and escape, and will help you out afterwards."  The Goat
your cost."
your courage never fails you except in this one instance."  On
your forefeet upon the wall and bend your head, I will run up
your hands will only make me more watchful, lest under these
your lack of beauty by your virtues."
your sword in its sheath and hold your equally useless tongue,
your teeth."
yourself in luxury and self-indulgence?'  The Members carried out
yourself out," said her son, "and do not be angry; for you would,
yourself, who are in want of food."
youth saw her and loved her, and took her home as his bride.
zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the
