










Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
BERTRAM.'
Exit WIDOW
Exit ALEXAS
Exeunt omnes
PAROLLES.'
[A march afar]
Exit SOOTHSAYER
DIANA CAPILET.'
Exeunt ATTENDANTS
Exit an ATTENDANT
[Giving a letter]
[Flourish. Exeunt]
[Opening a letter]
[Strikes him down]
[Pointing to LAFEU]
[They blindfold him]
Enter WIDOW and DIANA
Your unfortunate son,
[BERTRAM gives a ring]
[Falling on his sword]
[GUARDS seize BERTRAM]
Exeunt BERTRAM and LORDS
The KING retires attended
[They meet other soldiers]
commenting of this wedding
Exeunt BERTRAM and PAROLLES
[She hales him up and down]
Exeunt ANTONY and EUPHRONIUS
in every corner of the stage]
[Sound a flourish, with drums]
Enter LAFEU
Exeunt BERTRAM, PAROLLES, and ARMY
Exeunt all but ENOBARBUS and MENAS
EPILOGUE.
Enter ANTONY
Enter HELENA
Re-enter the KING
SCENE II. Rome. CAESAR'S house
[Alarum afar off, as at a sea-fight]
[Shout. Flourish of trumpets within]
Enter BERTRAM
Enter LAFEU
Re-enter CLOWN
SCENE IV.
SCENE IX.
SCENE V.
SCENE VII.
SCENE X.
SCENE XIII.
Enter BERTRAM
Enter CLEOPATRA
Enter HELENA
SCENE II.
SCENE III.
SCENE III.
SCENE IV.
SCENE V.
SCENE VI.
SCENE VII.
SCENE VII.
SCENE VIII.
SCENE X.
SCENE XIII.
SCENE XIV.
[They heave ANTONY aloft to CLEOPATRA]
whole ARMY
with others
EROS following
Enter ALEXAS
Enter MARDIAN
Enter PAROLLES
Enter PAROLLES
Exeunt ANTONY, CLEOPATRA, and ENOBARBUS
Re-enter CLOWN
Re-enter LAFEU
SCENE IX.
SCENE VI.
SCENE VIII.
SCENE XI.
SCENE XI.
SCENE XII.
SCENE XII.
SCENE XV.
and IRAS
with other CAPTAINS
Enter BERTRAM
Enter EROS
Enter PAROLLES
Enter SCARUS
Enter SOOTHSAYER
Enter a GENTLEMAN
Enter a MESSENGER
THE SONG
and others
with others
Enter BERTRAM, guarded
Enter CANIDIUS
Enter DIOMEDES
Enter ENOBARBUS
Enter PAROLLES
Enter PAROLLES
Enter THYREUS
Enter VARRIUS
Enter VENTIDIUS
Enter a MESSENGER
Enter a MESSENGER
Enter a SERVANT
Enter a SOLDIER
Enter servants
Exeunt CLEOPATRA, ENOBARBUS, and the rest
Re-enter EROS
and ENOBARBUS
meeting them
A plain near Actium
ACT IV. SCENE I.
CAESAR'S camp
Enter CLEOPATRA
Enter PAGE
Enter PAROLLES
Enter a GENTLEMAN
Enter a MESSENGER
Exeunt ANTONY, EROS, CAPTAINS and soldiers
Re-enter ANTONY
[Music of the hautboys is under the stage]
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144
145
146
147
148
149
150
151
152
153
154
A plain in Syria
ACT III. SCENE I.
ALEXAS, with others
CLEOPATRA'S palace
Enter A MESSENGER
Enter three or four LORDS
Exeunt ANTONY and CLEOPATRA, with the train
Exeunt all but ENOBARBUS, AGRIPPA, MAECENAS
Re-enter WIDOW with HELENA
Alarum. Enter ENOBARBUS
Between the camps
Between the two camps
Enter MARDIAN the eunuch
Enter a MESSENGER
Enter the MESSENGER again
Re-enter ENOBARBUS
with eunuchs fanning her
Alexandria. A monument
Athens. ANTONY'S house
CAESAR'S camp in Egypt
Enter ANTONY and CANIDIUS
Enter ANTONY and EROS
Enter DIOMEDES, below
Enter EROS with armour
Enter PAROLLES guarded, and
Enter a MESSENGER
Enter an armed SOLDIER
Exit, PAROLLES guarded. A short alarum within
Re-enter LAFEU with HELENA
Rome. CAESAR'S house
the noise of a sea-fight
A hill near Alexandria
ANTONY'S camp near Actium
Alexandria. ANTONY'S camp
Another part of the plain
Athens. ANTONY'S house
Enter ANTONY and ENOBARBUS
Enter ANTONY and SCARUS
Enter DERCETAS and a guard
Enter a SOLDIER of CAESAR'S
FIRST SOLDIER as interpreter
'Why the Grecians sacked Troy?
Alexandria. CAESAR'S camp
And gave this sentence then:
Another part of the plain
CAESAR reading a letter
Enter ANTONY and OCTAVIA
Enter CAPTAINS and soldiers
Enter CLEOPATRA, attended
Enter KING, HELENA, and ATTENDANTS
Enter a company of soldiers
Enter another MESSENGER with a letter
There's yet one good in ten.'
Was this King Priam's joy?'
Enter ANTONY and VENTIDIUS
Enter CAESAR and his army
Enter CLEOPATRA and ENOBARBUS
Enter OCTAVIA, with her train
Enter the MESSENGER as before
Enter three or four servitors
Re-enter ANTONY and ENOBARBUS
Which men full true shall find:
Your cuckoo sings by kind.
[The two companies separate and place themselves
of PACORUS borne before him
'Among nine bad if one be good,
'Was this fair face the cause' quoth she
Alexandria. CLEOPATRA'S palace
Alexandria. CLEOPATRA's palace
Alexandria. CLEOPATRA's palace
Alexandria. CLEOPATRA's palace
Among nine bad if one be good,
Enter ANTONY With attendants
FRENCH LORDS, with a TROOP OF SOLDIERS
Fond done, done fond,
Under the walls of Alexandria
With that she sighed as she stood,
With that she sighed as she stood,
[Music plays. ENOBARBUS places them hand in hand]
[Pointing to the servant who carries off LEPIDUS]
Alexandria. CLEOPATRA'S palace
Alexandria. CLEOPATRA'S palace
CAESAR'S camp before Alexandria
Enter BERTRAM, LAFEU, and PAROLLES
Enter HELENA and the two FRENCH GENTLEMEN
Exeunt all but LAFEU and PAROLLES who stay behind,
For I the ballad will repeat,
Re-enter a SERVANT with THYREUS
Your marriage comes by destiny,
Alexandria. Before CLEOPATRA's palace
Enter CAESAR, AGRIPPA, and MAECENAS
Enter CAESAR, with his army, marching
Enter ENOBARBUS and EROS, meeting
Enter four or five of the guard of ANTONY
Field of battle between the camps
On board POMPEY'S galley, off Misenum
Come, thou monarch of the vine,
Cup us till the world go round!
Cup us till the world go round,
Enter ANTONY and SCARUS, with their army
Enter CAESAR, MAECENAS, and AGRIPPA
Enter CLEOPATRA, led by CHARMIAN and IRAS,
Enter EUPHRONIUS, Ambassador from ANTONY
Enter HELENA in the dress of a pilgrim
Enter, below, ANTONY, borne by the guard
In thy fats our cares be drown'd,
POMPEY, AGRIPPA, MAECENAS, ENOBARBUS, MENAS,
Plumpy Bacchus with pink eyne!
With thy grapes our hairs be crown'd.
A sennet sounded. Enter CAESAR, ANTONY, LEPIDUS,
Enter CAESAR, ANTONY, LEPIDUS, and OCTAVIA
Alarums. Enter ANTONY, and SCARUS wounded
Enter ANTONY, with a MESSENGER and attendants
Enter EUPHRONIUS, the Ambassador; with ANTONY
Alarum. Drums and trumpets. Enter AGRIPPA
Enter ANTONY and CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, IRAS,
Enter CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, IRAS, and ALEXAS
Alarum. Enter ANTONY, again in a march; SCARUS
CANIDIUS marcheth with his land army one way
Enter AGRIPPA at one door, ENOBARBUS at another
Enter CLEOPATRA, ENOBARBUS, CHARMIAN, and IRAS
Flourish. Enter the DUKE OF FLORENCE, attended; two
Trumpets sound. Enter ANTONY and EROS, a SOLDIER
over the stage, and TAURUS, the Lieutenant of
Enter VENTIDIUS, as it were in triumph, with SILIUS
Flourish. Enter AGRIPPA, CAESAR, With DOLABELLA
Away!
CAESAR, the other way. After their going in is heard
Captain,
Enter ANTONY, CLEOPATRA, ENOBARBUS, CHARMIAN, IRAS,
Enter CAESAR, AGRIPPA, and MAECENAS, with his army;
Enter CLEOPATRA and her maids aloft, with CHARMIAN
Enter CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, IRAS, and MARDIAN
Enter a CENTURION and his company; ENOBARBUS follows
Nile
and other Romans, OFFICERS and soldiers; the dead body
horse;
me,
sorrow shoots
wars!
with a rheum;
within] So-
Flourish. Enter ANTONY, CLEOPATRA, her LADIES, the train,
It does from childishness. Can Fulvia die?
Music plays. Enter two or three SERVANTS with a banquet
made, you lose your city. It is not politic in the commonwealth
'After my flame lacks oil, to be the snuff
'But yet' is as a gaoler to bring forth
'I am conqueror of myself.' Thou art sworn, Eros,
'I hate', from hate away she threw,
'O, bless my brother!' Husband win, win brother,
'Say the firm Roman to great Egypt sends
'Stroy'd in dishonour.
'Tis a commodity will lose the gloss with lying; the longer kept,
'Tis a hard bondage to become the wife
'Tis an unseason'd courtier; good my lord,
'Tis bitter.
'Tis but the shadow of a wife you see,
'Tis not my profit that does lead mine honour:
'Tis sport to maul a runner.
'Tis the last service that I shall command you.
'Tis well th'art gone,
'Too young' and next year' and "Tis too early.'
'Twere pregnant they should square between themselves;
'Twill be two days ere I shall see you; so
'Twixt these extremes at all.
'Twould burst at this. Captain I'll be no more;
'We blush that thou shouldst choose; but, be refused,
'When from my finger you can get this ring,
'When he swears oaths, bid him drop gold, and take it;
'em?
A Roman thought hath struck him. Enobarbus!
A balance more replete.
A better ear. Menas, I did not think
A blessed lottery to him.
A brain that nourishes our nerves, and can
A braving war.
A bridegroom in my death, and run into't
A certainty, vouch'd from our cousin Austria,
A charge too heavy for my strength; but yet
A cistern for scal'd snakes! Go, get thee hence.
A counsellor, a traitress, and a dear;
A counterpoise, if not to thy estate
A diminution in our captain's brain
A forked mountain, or blue promontory
A guide, a goddess, and a sovereign,
A halter'd neck which does the hangman thank
A leaner action rend us. What's amiss,
A little I can read.
A lover of thy drum, hater of love.                   Exeunt
A lying trophy; and as oft is dumb
A man who is the abstract of all faults
A mangled shadow. Perchance to-morrow
A market-maid to Rome, and have prevented
A master-leaver and a fugitive!
A meaner than myself; since I myself
A million moe, now lost- she, Eros, has
A modest one to bear me back again.
A morsel for a monarch; and great Pompey
A most unnoble swerving.
A mother, and a mistress, and a friend,
A native slip to us from foreign seeds.
A nobleness in record. But I will be
A nursery to our gentry, who are sick
A parcel of their fortunes, and things outward
A phoenix, captain, and an enemy,
A poor physician's daughter my wife! Disdain
A poor physician's daughter-thou dislik'st
A poor unlearned virgin, when the schools,
A private man in Athens. This for him.
A seeming mermaid steers. The silken tackle
A senseless help, when help past sense we deem.
A shrewd one to's.
A shrewd turn, if she pleas'd.
A sister I bequeath you, whom no brother
A soldier and his horse.
A space for farther travel.
A statue than a breather.
A strange invisible perfume hits the sense
A stranger, no offender; and inform him
A strumpet's boldness, a divulged shame,
A tower'd citadel, a pendent rock,
A traitor you do look like; but such traitors
A vapour sometime like a bear or lion,
A very serious business calls on him.
A wife of me, though there my hope be done.
A workman in't.
A young man married is a man that's marr'd.
Aboard my galley I invite you all.
Absolute queen.
Acquaint my mother with my hate to her,
Acquire too high a fame when him we serve's away.
Adieu till then; then fail not. You have won
Admir'd Octavia. Great Mark Antony
Adoption strives with nature, and choice breeds
Adore our errors, laugh at's while we strut
Advise him.
Affairs of Antony; there did dissuade
After he scores, he never pays the score.
After well-ent'red soldiers, to return
Against a sworder! I see men's judgments are
Against his liking. Think you it is so?
Against our borrowing prayers.
Against the blown rose may they stop their nose
Against the flint and hardness of my fault,
Against the proclamation of thy passion,
Against your vain assault.
Age cannot wither her, nor custom stale
Agrippa further speak.
Ah, thou spell! Avaunt!
Alcides, thou mine ancestor, thy rage;
All but new things disdain; whose judgments are
All his revenue.
All is well ended if this suit be won,
All length is torture. Since the torch is out,
All little jealousies, which now seem great,
All men are bad and in their badness reign.
All my sad captains; fill our bowls once more;
All repetition. Let him not ask our pardon;
All strange and terrible events are welcome,
All that is virtuous-save what thou dislik'st,
All that is won and lost. Give me a kiss;
All the whole synod of them!
All there is thine.
All this the world well knows yet none knows well,
All yet seems well; and if it end so meet,
All your true followers out.
All's Well that Ends Well. Still the fine's the crown.
Already at my house.
Already, will their good thoughts call from him.
Am I or that or this for what he'll utter
Ambitious love hath so in me offended
Amiss to tumble on the bed of Ptolemy,
An Antony, that I might do you service
An argument that he is pluck'd, when hither
An armour all of gold; it was a king's.
An honourable trial.
An host of tongues; but let ill tidings tell
And Florence is denied before he comes;
And Fortune play upon thy prosperous helm,
And I am all forgotten!
And I beseech your Majesty to make it
And I had that which any inferior might
And I have heard Apollodorus carried-
And I shall lose my life for want of language.
And I will boot thee with what gift beside
And I'll be bid by thee.
And I, an ass, am onion-ey'd. For shame!
And I, hence fleeting, here remain with thee.
And aid me with that store of power you have
And all great fears, which now import their dangers,
And all of you clapp'd up together in
And all the gods go with you! Upon your sword
And all the haunt be ours.- Come, Eros, Eros!
And all the honours that can fly from us
And all the secrets of our camp I'll show,
And all the unlawful issue that their lust
And all they foul that thy complexion lack.
And am well studied for a liberal thanks
And angels offic'd all. I will be gone,
And answer 'Thanks.' I duly am inform'd
And answer me declin'd, sword against sword,
And are by me with child,' etc. This is done.
And ask'd thee mercy for't.
And at that time he got his wife with child.
And at the port expect you.
And at this time most easy 'tis to do't,
And be as sweet as sharp. We must away;
And be perform'd to-night. The solemn feast
And be undone by 'em!                         Exit MESSENGER
And blemish Caesar's triumph. Let him take thee
And boarded her i' th' wanton way of youth.
And both shall cease, without your remedy.
And bow'd his eminent top to their low ranks,
And bring me how he takes my death. To th' monument!
And brokes with all that can in such a suit
And burgonet of men. He's speaking now,
And by a gem of women, to be abus'd
And by the leave of my good lord the King,
And call her hourly mistress. Who was with him?
And carry back to Sicily much tall youth
And celebrate our drink?
And cry 'Your will?' Have you no ears? I am
And dare not speak their knowledge. Antony
And death once dead, there's no more dying then.
And deeper than oblivion do we bury
And did deserve his change. For what I have conquer'd
And do invite you to my sister's view,
And drink carouses to the next day's fate,
And drown consideration.                              Exeunt
And earns a place i' th' story.
And ev'ry hair that's on 't, Helen, that's dead,
And ever welcome to us.
And feast the army; we have store to do't,
And feel I am so most. O Antony,
And fertile every wish, a million.
And fight maliciously. For when mine hours
And fighting foot to foot.
And find your Grace in health.
And finish all foul thoughts. O Antony,
And for his ordinary pays his heart
And for the contents' sake are sorry for our pains.
And found her wondrous cold; but I sent to her,
And full of purpose.
And gain by ills thrice more than I have spent.
And get her leave to part. For not alone
And give me mine again.
And give true evidence to his love, which stands
And give you to the gods.
And gives his potent regiment to a trull
And go to't with delight.
And have my learning from some true reports
And have my thanks for all.           Exeunt, hearing ANTONY
And he shall surety me. But for this lord
And he will fill thy wishes to the brim
And hear me speak a word.
And hellish obstinacy tie thy tongue,
And helper to a husband. But, O strange men!
And her quietus is to render thee.
And his affairs come to me on the wind.
And hoist thee up to the shouting plebeians;
And hold our best advantage.                          Exeunt
And in our faults by lies we flattered be.
And in our name, what she requires; add more,
And in our sports my better cunning faints
And is become the bellows and the fan
And is enough for both.
And is not like the sire. Honours thrive
And it appears he is belov'd of those
And it grows fouler.
And keep the turn of tippling with a slave,
And kings have been your fellows.
And lack not to lose still. Thus, Indian-like,
And lawful meaning in a lawful act;
And leave his master Antony. For this pains
And leave his navy gazing.
And let me buy your friendly help thus far,
And let the Queen know of our gests. To-morrow,
And look on their endeavour.                          Exeunt
And loves to grant, reprieve him from the wrath
And made a gap in nature.
And made their bends adornings. At the helm
And mak'st conjectural fears to come into me
And make the hearts of Romans serve your ends!
And make the wars alike against my stomach,
And make this haste as your own good proceeding,
And make thy fortunes proud. The blow thou hadst
And make your peace with Caesar.
And manifest experience had collected
And mock our eyes with air. Thou hast seen these signs;
And mock us with our bareness.
And more thirsts after.
And my appointments have in them a need
And my integrity ne'er knew the crafts
And neither way inclines.
And not a serpent's poison. Say our pleasure,
And not be all day neither.                       Exit LAFEU
And not have spoke on't. In me 'tis villainy:
And now behold the meaning.
And now you should be as your mother was
And of his old experience th' only darling,
And on your finger in the night I'll put
And other of his conquer'd kingdoms,
And our twelve thousand horse. We'll to our ship.
And palter in the shifts of lowness, who
And pleasure drown the brim.
And plighter of high hearts! O that I were
And poison it in the source, and the first stone
And pray God's blessing into thy attempt.
And put you in the catalogue of those
And put yourself under his shroud,
And quietness, grown sick of rest, would purge
And rather muse than ask why I entreat you;
And saved my life saying 'not you'.
And say 'Ah ha! Y'are caught.'
And say 'God quit you!' be familiar with
And say a soldier, Dian, told thee this:
And say'st it is not fit.
And seal'd between us.
And send to darkness all that stop me. Come,
And serving you so long!
And set thee by Jove's side. Yet come a little.
And shall become you well, to entreat your captain
And she is dead; which nothing, but to close
And shortly comes to harvest.
And show what we alone must think, which never
And sinks most lamentably. Had our general
And snatch 'em up, as we take hares, behind.
And so proceed accordingly.                           Exeunt
And so rebel to judgment.
And so should you.
And soberly did mount an arm-gaunt steed,
And speak as loud as Mars. By Jupiter,
And still conclusion, shall acquire no honour
And such a twain can do't, in which I bind,
And suffer'd my command.
And sway our great designs!
And take in Toryne?- You have heard on't, sweet?
And tell her she is thine; to whom I promise
And that at my bidding you could so stand up.
And that she has discharg'd. What thou wouldst do
And that which most with you should safe my going,
And that you fly them as you swear them lordship,
And the Phoenicians go a-ducking; we
And the ebb'd man, ne'er lov'd till ne'er worth love,
And the gods yield you for't!
And then thou lov'st me for my name is Will.
And then when poisoned hours had bound me up
And thence this slander as I think proceeds.
And therefore know how far I may be pitied.
And therefore, goaded with most sharp occasions,
And these breed honour. That is honour's scorn
And these great tears grace his remembrance more
And these the showers to bring it on. Be cheerful.
And they have earn'd the waste. Poor Antony!          Exeunt
And think to wed it, he is so above me.
And this is all I have done. She's a fair creature;
And thou art all my child. Towards Florence is he?
And thou shouldst tow me after. O'er my spirit
And though I kill him not, I am the cause
And though I make this marriage for my peace,
And though you think me poor, I am the man
And threats the throat of that his officer
And throw between them all the food thou hast,
And to imperial Love, that god most high,
And to proclaim it civilly were like
And to this false plague are they now transferred.
And urge her to a present answer back;
And was a common gamester to the camp.
And watch'd the time to shoot.
And we are women's men.
And we in negligent danger. Cheer your heart;
And we must sleep. That thou depart'st hence safe
And we shall talk before we fight.
And welcome, welcome! Die where thou hast liv'd.
And well am like to do, for I perceive
And well deserv'd. Not helping, death's my fee;
And what impossibility would slay
And what they undid did.
And what thou think'st his very action speaks
And what to your sworn counsel I have spoken
And when we are put off, fall to their throats.
And wherefore I am fled; write to the King
And whine aloud for mercy. Take him hence.
And with our sprightly port make the ghosts gaze.
And with this healthful hand, whose banish'd sense
And with those hands that grasp'd the heaviest club
And word it, prithee, piteously. Hence, Mardian,
And wore us out of act. It much repairs me
And worth it, with addition! But, fair soul,
And worthy shameful check it were, to stand
And would not put my reputation now
And wrinkled deep in time? Broad-fronted Caesar,
And writ as little beard.
And write to her a love-line.
And yet I know him a notorious liar,
And yet I know not- thou didst hate her deadly,
And yet by heaven I think my love as rare,
And yet thou wilt, for I being pent in thee,
And, after some dispatch in hand at court,
And, as the president of my kingdom, will
And, breathless, pow'r breathe forth.
And, having lost her breath, she spoke, and panted,
And, hearing your high Majesty is touch'd
And, hoodwink'd as thou art, will lead thee on
And, look you, here's your letter. This it says:
And, with the rest full-mann'd, from th' head of Actium
Another ring, that what in time proceeds
Answer his emptiness! Caesar, thou hast subdu'd
Antick'd us all. What needs more words? Good night.
Antony yet.
Antony, Antony! Help, Charmian; help, Iras, help;
Appear there for a man. Speak not against it;
Applauding our approach.                              Exeunt
Approv'd so to your Majesty, may plead
Are all too dear for me. Lie they upon thy hand,
Are in the field. A mighty strength they carry.
Are in thy vessel. Let me cut the cable;
Are motives of more fancy; and, in fine,
Are newly grown to love. The condemn'd Pompey,
Are of a mind: he, that they cannot help him;
Are those that often have 'gainst Pompey fought;
Are words and poor conditions, but unseal'd-
Art turn'd the greatest liar.
As 'tis reported, for the King had married him
As 'tis reported, so.
As 'tis with us that square our guess by shows;
As Cleopatra this. But, sir, forgive me;
As I conceive the journey, be at th' Mount
As I have said you did.
As all impediments in fancy's course
As amorous of their strokes. For her own person,
As ample as myself.
As any she belied with false compare.
As captain shall. Simply the thing I am
As he shall like, to quit me. Urge it thou.
As heaven shall work in me for thine avail,
As high as word, my deed shall match thy deed.
As his composure must be rare indeed
As his own state and ours- 'tis to be chid
As his strong sides can volley.
As i' th' command of Caesar. I dare him therefore
As if a god in hate of mankind had
As if his life lay on 't.
As if she sat in's heart; she says all men
As if the world should cleave, and that slain men
As in your royal speech.
As is the morn-dew on the myrtle leaf
As it hath fated her to be my motive
As it rain'd kisses.
As letting her pass so; had I spoke with her,
As low as she would wish it.
As mad in folly, lack'd the sense to know
As matter whole you have not to make it with,
As my thoughts make thee, and as my farthest band
As notes whose faculties inclusive were
As nothing can unroot you.
As oft it loses all. I will be gone.
As often as I guess'd.
As one near death to those that wish him live.
As one that takes his leave. Mine honest friends,
As she had made the overture, she ceas'd,
As that which makes it.
As thou affects.
As thy auspicious mistress!
As to a lover's bed. Come, then; and, Eros,
As to have ask'd him pardon. Let this fellow
As water is in water.
As we rate boys who, being mature in knowledge,
As we'll direct her how 'tis best to bear it.
As when mine empire was your fellow too,
As when thy father and myself in friendship
As with a woman. Come, you'll play with me, sir?
As you are now, for you are cold and stern;
As you did love, but as you fear'd him.
As you owe to your wife.
As you shall give th' advice. By the fire
Ask him upon his oath if he does think
Assemble we immediate council. Pompey
Assist, good friends.
At heel of that, defy him.
At her life's rate.
At least in my opinion.
At market-price have bought.
Attend his further pleasure.
Authority melts from me. Of late, when I cried 'Ho!'
Away!                                                 Exeunt
Away, and for our flight.
Away, my Thetis!
BOTH. Our hearts receive your warnings.
BOTH. We'll take your offer kindly.                   Exeunt
Bajazet's mule, if you prattle me into these perils.
Be bold you do so grow in my requital
Be bounteous at our meal.
Be brooch'd with me. If knife, drugs, serpents, have
Be ever known to patience. My dear'st sister!         Exeunt
Be free and healthful- why so tart a favour
Be gone to-morrow; and be sure of this,
Be jolly, lords.
Be not offended, for it hurts not him
Be not so holy-cruel. Love is holy;
Be nothing of our strife; if we contend,
Be strew'd before your feet!
Be there in person?
Be this sweet Helen's knell. And now forget her.
Be you not troubled with the time, which drives
Be't as our gods will have't! It only stands
Bear hateful memory, poor Enobarbus did
Bear our hack'd targets like the men that owe them.
Bear thine eyes straight, though thy proud heart go wide.
Bear us an errand to him.       Exeunt servants with THYREUS
Beat mine, inhoop'd, at odds. I will to Egypt;
Beat th' approaching Caesar. But if we fail,
Because we brave her. Come.
Become themselves in her, that the holy priests
Becomes a fear, as being o'erpow'r'd. Therefore
Becomes his captain's captain; and ambition,
Been what he knew himself, it had gone well.
Before I speak, too threat'ningly replies.
Before I strike this bloody stroke, farewell.
Before did satisfy you. If you'll patch a quarrel,
Before our army. Thy Pacorus, Orodes,
Before the gods my knee shall bow my prayers
Before the sun shall see's, we'll spill the blood
Before thy face repent!
Before you serve.
Before you, Lepidus.
Beg often our own harms, which the wise pow'rs
Beguil'd all spies.
Beguil'd me to the very heart of loss.
Beguiles the truer office of mine eyes?
Being an obstruct 'tween his lust and him.
Being barber'd ten times o'er, goes to the feast,
Being prepar'd for land.
Believe not all; or if you must believe,
Believe not thy disdain, but presently
Believe't- till I weep too.
Belong to Egypt. Good now, play one scene
Bequeathed down from many ancestors;
Bequeathed down from many ancestors;
Best to preserve it. If I lose mine honour,
Bestow'd his lips on that unworthy place,
Better to leave undone than by our deed
Between her brother and Mark Antony.
Between her heart and lips. She rend'red life,
Betwixt us as the cement of our love
Beyond the mark of thought, and the high gods,
Bid you Alexas
Bless her when she is riggish.
Bless him at home in peace, whilst I from far
Bless this unworthy husband? He cannot thrive,
Blessing upon your vows; and in your bed
Bliss in our brows' bent, none our parts so poor
Bocchus, the king of Libya; Archelaus
Both as the same, or rather ours the elder-
Both suffer under this complaint we bring,
Both what by sea and land I can be able
Breed scrupulous faction; the hated, grown to strength,
Bring him again: the Jack of Caesar's shall
Bring in the admiration, that we with the
Bring me word how tall she is.- Pity me, Charmian,
Brings in the champion Honour on my part
Burn the great sphere thou mov'st in! Darkling stand
Burn'd on the water. The poop was beaten gold;
But 'tis no matter; thou shalt bring him to me
But 'twould offend him; and in his offence
But Antony's hath triumph'd on itself.
But I do wash his name out of my blood,
But I had rather fast from all four days
But I shall lose the grounds I work upon.
But I will eat, and drink, and sleep as soft
But accidents unpurpos'd. Draw, and come.
But bid farewell, and go. When you sued staying,
But comforts we despise; our size of sorrow,
But conquer'd merely.
But do not speak to me. Lead me to my chamber.        Exeunt
But fearing since how it might work, hath sent
But first, I beg my pardon: the young lord
But found no cure, the bath for my help lies,
But give me leave to try success, I'd venture
But give thyself unto my sick desires,
But goers backward.
But here comes Antony.
But in my bosom shall she never come
But know I think, and think I know most sure,
But knows of him no more. My dearest madam,
But lend and give where she is sure to lose;
But let determin'd things to destiny
But let it be. Bring me to Antony.
But let it be; I am quickly ill and well-
But let the world rank me in register
But let's about it.                                   Exeunt
But like a common and an outward man
But love hate on for now I know thy mind,
But may not be so credulous of cure,
But more of this hereafter. You, Diana,
But most it is presumption in us when
But must condemn it now. Desist, and drink.
But my intents are fix'd, and will not leave me.        Exit
But never hope to know why I should marry her.
But never tax'd for speech. What heaven more will,
But now 'tis made an H.
But now he's gone, and my idolatrous fancy
But on us both did haggish age steal on,
But one to dance with. By heaven, I'll steal away.
But only she; and she deserves a lord
But pay me terms of honour, cold and sickly
But pray you stir no embers up. Here comes
But puts it off to a compell'd restraint;
But rather make you thank your pains for it.
But say I could not help it.
But she is arm'd for him, and keeps her guard
But since the cuckoo builds not for himself,
But since you have made the days and nights as one,
But soon that war had end, and the time's state
But such a one, thy vassal, whom I know
But take the High'st to witness. Then, pray you, tell me:
But tell me then, 'tis so; for, look, thy cheeks
But that I am your most obedient servant.
But that I know them. Do they charge me further?
But that your daughter, ere she seems as won,
But that your trespass now becomes a fee,
But the plain single vow that is vow'd true.
But thence I learn and find the lesson true,
But there's no goodness in thy face. If Antony
But this is not the best. Look, prithee, Charmian,
But till the troops come by,
But was a race of heaven. They are so still,
But we keep whole by land. This speed of Caesar's
But what at full I know, thou know'st no part;
But what indeed is honest to be done.
But when we in our viciousness grow hard-
But when you are well pleas'd.
But with the word the time will bring on summer,
But, I your daughter, he must be my brother?
But, first or last, your fine Egyptian cookery
But, he away, 'tis noble.
But, if I help, what do you promise me?
But, like a timorous thief, most fain would steal
But, my good lord, 'tis thus: will you be cur'd
But, riddle-like, lives sweetly where she dies!
But, sirrah, mark, we use
By any desperate change. My more particular,
By any token of presumptuous suit,
By certain scales i' th' pyramid; they know
By duty ruminated.
By him and by this woman here what know you?
By laying defects of judgment to me; but
By looking back what I have left behind
By losing of our prayers.
By love's own sweet constraint, and will for ever
By my old beard,
By one that looks on feeders?
By our remembrances of days foregone,
By revolution low'ring, does become
By sea and land I'll fight. Or I will live,
By sea and land, supplying every stage
By self-example mayst thou be denied.
By self-unable motion; therefore dare not
By sending me a letter? Read it again.
By such a day and hour.
By th' height, the lowness, or the mean, if dearth
By th' luckiest stars in heaven; and, would your honour
By th' second hour i' th' morn.
By the discandying of this pelleted storm,
By the good aid that I of you shall borrow,
By the misprizing of a maid too virtuous
By this same coxcomb that we have i' th' wind,
By what did here befall me. Your wife and brother
By wond'ring how thou took'st it.
Caesar and Antony have ever won
Caesar and Antony shall well greet together.
Caesar has taken Toryne.
Caesar himself has work, and our oppression
Caesar sits down in Alexandria, where
Caesar to Antony. Let the old ruffian know
Caesarion, whom they call my father's son,
Call forth my household servants; let's to-night
Call in the messengers. As I am Egypt's Queen,
Call on him for't! But to confound such time
Came on my guard, and at thy tent is now
Came there for cure and this by that I prove,
Can equally move with them. Provide your going;
Can from the lap of Egypt's widow pluck
Can never be so equal that your love
Can woman me unto 't. Where is my son, I pray you?
Cannot endure my absence.
Cannot make better note.
Carries beyond belief.
Carries no favour in't but Bertram's.
Casaer hath hang'd him. Canidius and the rest
Cast on my noble father.
Chain mine arm'd neck. Leap thou, attire and all,
Chief factors for the gods: I do not know
Chiefly i' the world; more laugh'd at that I should
Choose thou thy husband, and I'll pay thy dower;
Choose your own company, and command what cost
Claps on his sea-wing, and, like a doting mallard,
Cleopatra and himself in chairs of gold
Cleopatra's health to drink.
Clock to itself, knew the true minute when
Cold wisdom waiting on superfluous folly.
Come here for physic.
Come hither, sir.
Come hither, sir.
Come on; thou art granted space.
Come, Menas.                                          Exeunt
Come, down into the boat.
Come, good fellow, put mine iron on.
Come, sirrah.                                         Exeunt
Come, your lord calls!
Comes dear'd by being lack'd. This common body,
Command me.
Commend me to my kinsmen and my son. This is not much.
Commend the paper to his gracious hand;
Commend unto his lips thy favouring hand-
Conferr'd by testament to th' sequent issue,
Confess 'twas hers, and by what rough enforcement
Confess it, th' one to th' other; and thine eyes
Contempt his scornful perspective did lend me,
Contend for empire in thee, and thy goodness
Continues still a Jove.                                 Exit
Corrupt the tender honour of a maid;
Corrupted honest men! Dispatch. Enobarbus!            Exeunt
Cosmo, Lodowick, and Gratii, two hundred fifty each; mine own
Could not with graceful eyes attend those wars
Could reach them: I have seen a medicine
Count Rousillon a widower; his vows are forfeited to me, and my
Crack thy frail case. Apace, Eros, apace.-
Creaking my shoes on the plain masonry,
Crying 'That's good that's gone.' Our rash faults
Dead Caesar's trencher. Nay, you were a fragment
Dead though she be, she feels her young one kick;
Deadly divorce step between me and you!
Dealt on lieutenantry, and no practice had
Dear almost as his life; which gratitude
Dear my lord, pardon! I dare not,
Dear sir, to my endeavours give consent;
Dear sovereign, pardon to me.
Debate it at their leisure. Welcome, Count;
Debauch'd on every tomb, on every grave
Defiles the pitchy night. So lust doth play
Demand the like.
Demurely wake the sleepers. Let us bear him
Demuring upon me. But come, come, Antony-
Deny us for our good; so find we profit
Derived from the ancient Capilet.
Desires this ring; appoints him an encounter;
Destroy our friends, and after weep their dust;
Destroyed in such a shape.
Detain no jot, I charge thee. Write to him-
Determine this great war in single fight!
Detest my baseness. I, that with my sword
Did ever in so true a flame of liking
Did ever love so dearly. Let her live
Did famine follow; whom thou fought'st against,
Did gibe my missive out of audience.
Did hang a salt fish on his hook, which he
Did lack a parallel; yet, for all that,
Did pocket up my letters, and with taunts
Did practise on my state, your being in Egypt
Did show ourselves i' th' field; and to that end
Did to his Majesty, his mother, and his lady,
Did urge me in his act. I did inquire it,
Did violate so itself.
Did you too much disquiet. For that you must
Dido and her Aeneas shall want troops,
Discipled of the bravest. He lasted long;
Discredit my authority with yours,
Disgrace and horror, that, on my command,
Dispatch the most convenient messenger.
Dissolve my life! The next Caesarion smite!
Distract your army, which doth most consist
Distracted clouds give way; so stand thou forth;
Divide me from your bosom.
Do as I bid you.- Where's this cup I call'd for?
Do bravely, horse; for wot'st thou whom thou mov'st?
Do draw the inward quality after them,
Do hear what we do.
Do my sighs stream. Sir, will you hear my suit?
Do not believe him. o, behold this ring,
Do not throw from you. And you, my lords, farewell;
Do something mingle with our younger brown, yet ha' we
Do strongly speak to us; but the letters to
Do thee all rights of service.
Do thine own fortunes that obedient right
Do we shake hands. All come to this? The hearts
Do wrong to none; be able for thine enemy
Does conquer him that did his master conquer,
Does pay thy labour richly. Go.                 Exit MARDIAN
Does pity, as constrained blemishes,
Doth to our rose of youth rightly belong;
Down thy ill-uttering throat.
Draw after her. Pardon what I have spoke;
Draw lots who shall begin.
Draw that thy honest sword, which thou hast worn
Dream of impediment! Let me have thy hand.
Drive him to Rome. 'Tis time we twain
Drop in my neck; as it determines, so
Drugs poison him that so feil sick of you.
Drunkenness is his best virtue, for he will be swine-drunk; and
Duke hath offered him letters of commendations to the King.
Duke, done my adieu with his nearest; buried a wife, mourn'd for
Durst make too bold herald of my tongue;
ENOBARBUS. [Aside to CLEOPATRA] To make his followers weep.
Each heart in Rome does love and pity you;
Each man's like mine; you have shown all Hectors.
Each minute some.                                     Exeunt
Early though't be, have on their riveted trim,
Edge, sting, or operation, I am safe.
Effect in an Earthly Actor.'
Either both or none.
Else Paris, and the medicine, and the King,
Embowell'd of their doctrine, have let off
End ere I do begin.
Endure a further view.
Enough to fetch him in. See it done;
Enter the city, clip your wives, your friends,
Enter, with drum and colours, BERTRAM, PAROLLES, and the
Enthron'd i' th' market-place, did sit alone,
Equality of two domestic powers
Ere I can perfect mine intents, to kneel.
Ere the ninth hour, I drunk him to his bed,
Ere they can hide their levity in honour.
Ere twice in murk and occidental damp
Ere twice the horses of the sun shall bring
Eros!- I come, my queen.- Eros!- Stay for me;
Err in bestowing it.
Eternity was in our lips and eyes,
Even so it was with me when I was young.
Even such a body. Here I am Antony;
Even this repays me.
Even till a Lethe'd dullness-
Even to falling. Give him no breath, but now
Even with his pestilent scythe.     Exeunt all but ENOBARBUS
Ever a friend whose thoughts more truly labour
Ever love Caesar so?
Evils enow to darken all his goodness.
Exceeds what we expected.                             Exeunt
Exception bid him speak, and at this time
Exempted be from me the arrogance
Expected. Since he went from Egypt 'tis
Expecting absent friends. As thou lov'st her,
Experience, manhood, honour, ne'er before
Expire before their fashions.' This he wish'd.
Extended Asia from Euphrates,
Extended or contracted all proportions
Eye well to you. Your honour calls you hence;
Fair maid, send forth thine eye. This youthful parcel
Faith, yes:
Fall on thy head! Farewell. My lord,
Fall, when love please. Marry, to each but one!
Fare thee well, dame, whate'er becomes of me.
Fare you well, my lord; and believe this of me: there can be no
Farewell!                                        Exit HELENA
Feeds beast as man. The nobleness of life
Find fairer fortune, if you ever wed!
First tried our soldiership. He did look far
Flies where you bid it, I find that she which late
Fly off our loves again!
Fly with false aim; move the still-piecing air,
Follow his chariot, like the greatest spot
Follow me and receive't.                              Exeunt
Follow me close; I'll bring you to't. Adieu.
Followed thy heels.
For 'tis a studied, not a present thought,
For I by vow am so embodied yours
For I can guess that by thy honest aid
For I have gained by't.
For I have sworn thee fair, and thought thee bright,
For I have sworn thee fair: more perjured I,
For I spake to you for your comfort, did desire you
For Paris, was it? Speak.
For a fair victory.
For amplest credence.
For being yare about him.
For breathing and exploit.
For count of this, the Count's a fool, I know it,
For doughty-handed are you, and have fought
For fear and doting. Friends, be gone; you shall
For general sovereignty; and that he will'd me
For he hath laid strange courtesies and great
For idleness itself.
For loving where you do; but if yourself,
For my respects are better than they seem,
For poor'st diminutives, for doits, and let
For present parting; only he desires
For private stomaching.
For quick accumulation of renown,
For so he calls me. Now I feed myself
For speedy aid; wherein our dearest friend
For such a business; therefore am I found
For such a petty war; his soldiership
For that is her demand, and know her business?
For the contempt of empire.
For the main soldier; whose quality, going on,
For they have entertained cause enough
For this is from the present- how you take
For thou mayst see a sunshine and a hail
For thy good valour. Come thee on.
For we are old, and on our quick'st decrees
For what his eyes eat only.
For what you seem to fear. So the gods keep you,
For when I am reveng'd upon my charm,
For which myself, the ignorant motive, do
For with the dark, poor thief, I'll steal away.         Exit
For you have show'd me that which well approves
Forborne the getting of a lawful race,
Forgive me in thine own particular,
Forgive my fearful sails! I little thought
Fortune and Antony part here; even here
Fortune's mood, and smell somewhat strong of her strong
Four feasts are toward.
France is a stable; we that dwell in't jades;
Frank nature, rather curious than in haste,
French crown for your taffety punk, as Tib's rush for Tom's
Frighted each other? Why should he follow?
From Antony win Cleopatra. Promise,
From Egypt drive her all-disgraced friend,
From courtly friends, with camping foes to live,
From firm security.
From her inaidable estate-I say we must not
From lowest place when virtuous things proceed,
From mine own knowledge. As nearly as I may,
From my cold heart let heaven engender hail,
From simple sources, and great seas have dried
From son to son some four or five descents
From that great face of war, whose several ranges
From the great compt; but love that comes too late,
From the report that goes upon your goodness;
From thine invention, offers. Women are not
From whence thou cam'st, how tended on. But rest
Frowns at this levity. Gentle lords, let's part;
Full surfeits and the dryness of his bones
Fulvia perchance is angry; or who knows
Further than he is Caesar.
Further this act of grace; and from this hour
Gerard de Narbon was my father,
Get goal for goal of youth. Behold this man;
Get me ink and paper.
Give him much wrong'd.
Give me mine angle- we'll to th' river. There,
Give me some help here, ho! If thou proceed
Give me thy hand,
Give me to drink mandragora.
Give them thy fingers, me thy lips to kiss.
Give up yourself merely to chance and hazard
Given order for our horses; and to-night,
Gives him a worthy pass. Here comes my clog.
Gives us free scope; only doth backward pull
Go put on thy defences.
Go speedily, and bring again the Count.
Go thou toward home, where I will never come
Go to the fellow, good Alexas; bid him
Go with your impositions, I am yours
Go, go, provide.                                      Exeunt
God save you, Captain.
God save you, pilgrim! Whither are bound?
God shield you mean it not! 'daughter' and 'mother'
God's mercy, maiden! does it curd thy blood
God, it holds yet.
Goes to and back, lackeying the varying tide,
Good Antony, your hand.
Good Enobarbus, make yourself my guest
Good Tom Drum, lend me a handkercher. So, I
Good-morrow to thee. Welcome.
Grace grow where those drops fall! My hearty friends,
Grants scarce distinction. Thou wilt write to Antony?
Great Herod to incline himself to Caesar
Great King, I am no strumpet, by my life;
Great Mars, I put myself into thy file;
Great Media, Parthia, and Armenia,
Great in our hope, lay our best love and credence
Greater than shows itself at the first view
Grew fat with feasting there.
Grief would have tears, and sorrow bids me speak.     Exeunt
Had from the conversation of my thoughts
Had gone to gaze on Cleopatra too,
Had our great palace the capacity
Had we done so at first, we had droven them home
Hadst thou Narcissus in thy face, to me
Half won is match well made; match, and well make it;
Haply been absent then.
Haply you shall not see me more; or if,
Hark further.
Hark, Ventidius.
Hast sold me to this novice; and my heart
Hath after thee sent all thy treasure, with
Hath brought me up to be your daughter's dower,
Hath given the dare to Caesar, and commands
Hath it been ow'd and worn. This is his wife:
Hath made me rig my navy, at whose burden
Hath nobly held; our sever'd navy to
Hath nodded him to her. He hath given his empire
Hath not in nature's mystery more science
Hath so betray'd thine act. Being done unknown,
Hath told the thievish minutes how they pass,
Hath well compos'd thee. Thy father's moral parts
Have I my pillow left unpress'd in Rome,
Have buried them for prey.
Have empty left their orbs and shot their fires
Have fought with equal fortune, and continue
Have given myself the cause.
Have glow'd like plated Mars, now bend, now turn,
Have knit again, and fleet, threat'ning most sea-like.
Have letters from me to some friends that will
Have lipp'd, and trembled kissing.
Have lost my way for ever. I have a ship
Have lov'd without this mean, if on both parts
Have nick'd his captainship, at such a point,
Have notice what we purpose. I shall break
Have one man but a man? And that is it
Have power to utter. O, then we bring forth weeds
Have the like oaths. He had sworn to marry me
Have to the full appeach'd.
Have tongue to charge me with.
Have us'd to conquer standing on the earth
Have, by their brave instruction, got upon me
Having a son and friends, since Julius Caesar,
Having alike your cause? Of this my letters
Having vainly fear'd too little. Away with him.
He bade me store up as a triple eye,
He beats thee 'gainst the odds. Thy lustre thickens
He comes too short of that great property
He could so quickly cut the Ionian sea,
He cried almost to roaring; and he wept
He fell upon me ere admitted. Then
He gave it to a commoner o' th' camp,
He gave the stablishment of Egypt; made her
He gave to Alexander; to Ptolemy he assign'd
He goes forth gallantly. That he and Caesar might
He had not my virginity.
He had the wit which I can well observe
He has not with him.
He hath spoken true. The very dice obey him;
He hath whipt with rods; dares me to personal combat,
He hence remov'd last night, and with more haste
He is an absolute master.
He is too good and fair for death and me;
He is twenty men to one.
He is unqualitied with very shame.
He is with Caesar.
He kiss'd- the last of many doubled kisses-
He knows I am no maid, and he'll swear to't:
He knows himself my bed he hath defil'd;
He lessens his requests and to thee sues
He loses hearts. Lepidus flatters both,
He makes me angry with him; for he seems
He may at pleasure whip or hang or torture,
He may recover yet.                     Exeunt with the body
He might have bought me at a common price.
He must not be my brother.
He ne'er pays after-debts, take it before.
He pays the whole, and yet am I not free.
He ploughed her, and she cropp'd.
He scatter'd not in ears, but grafted them
He sends so poor a pinion of his wing,
He shall have every day a several greeting,
He shall not hear thee; or from Caesar's camp
He shall to Parthia.- Be it art or hap,
He that of greatest works is finisher
He that unbuckles this, till we do please
He us'd as creatures of another place;
He vented them, most narrow measure lent me;
He was first smok'd by the old Lord Lafeu. When his disguise and
He was much fam'd.
He was not sad, for he would shine on those
He wears his honour in a box unseen
He were much goodlier. Is't not a handsome gentleman?
He will return; and hope I may that she,
He would receive it? He and his physicians
He's bound unto Octavia.
He's bravely taken here. He stole from France,
He's quoted for a most perfidious slave,
Health shall live free, and sickness freely die.
Heard you of nothing strange about the streets?
Hearing so much, will speed her foot again,
Hearing that you prepar'd for war, acquainted
Heart, once be stronger than thy continent,
Heaven hath through me restor'd the King to health.
Help me, my women- we must draw thee up;
Help, friends below! Let's draw him hither.
Hence with thy stripes, be gone.                Exit THYREUS
Hence, thou suborned informer, a true soul
Her audit (though delayed) answered must be,
Her estimation home.
Her eye is sick on't; I observe her now.
Her eyes myself, could win me to believe
Her hair, what colour?
Her head's declin'd, and death will seize her but
Her heart inform her tongue- the swan's down feather,
Her heart weighs sadly. This young maid might do her
Her inclination; let him not leave out
Her infinite cunning with her modern grace
Her infinite variety. Other women cloy
Her length of sickness, with what else more serious
Her love, for whose dear love I rise and fall.
Her motion and her station are as one;
Her opulent throne with kingdoms. All the East,
Her people out upon her; and Antony,
Her that so wishes, and her humble love!
Her welcome friendly.
Here comes the Emperor.
Here is a pur of Fortune's, sir, or of Fortune's cat, but not
Here on my knee, before high heaven and you,
Here's a petition from a Florentine,
Here's his lordship now.
Here's to Caesar!
Herod of Jewry dare not look upon you
Herod of Jewry; Mithridates, king
Herself most chastely absent. After this,
Higher than both in blood and life, stands up
Him have I lost, thou hast both him and me,
Hipparchus, my enfranched bondman, whom
Hirtius and Pansa, consuls, at thy heel
His Grace is at Marseilles, to which place
His Majesty seldom fears. I am Cressid's uncle,
His accusations.
His arched brows, his hawking eye, his curls,
His baseness that ensued?
His bounty overplus. The messenger
His brother warr'd upon him; although, I think,
His cocks do win the battle still of mine,
His conquering banner shook from Syria
His corrigible neck, his face subdu'd
His death was so effected. Better 'twere
His equal had awak'd them; and his honour,
His face I know not.
His faith, his sweet disaster; with a world
His faults, in him, seem as the spots of heaven,
His fretted fortunes give him hope and fear
His guard have brought him thither.
His humble ambition, proud humility,
His jarring concord, and his discord dulcet,
His judgment too.
His love to Antony. But as for Caesar,
His name with zealous fervour sanctify.
His pardon for return.
His part o' th' isle. Then does he say he lent me
His pow'rful mandate to you: 'Do this or this;
His power unto Octavia.
His power went out in such distractions as
His powerful sound within an organ weak;
His servant live, and will his vassal die.
His sons he there proclaim'd the kings of kings:
His sword e'en like a dancer, while I struck
His taken labours bid him me forgive;
His tongue obey'd his hand. Who were below him
His vacancy with his voluptuousness,
His wife that's dead did trespasses to Caesar;
Hoists sails and flies.
Hold unbewail'd their way. Welcome to Rome;
Holds idleness your subject, I should take you
Hoo! hearts, tongues, figures, scribes, bards, poets, cannot
Hop forty paces through the public street;
Hop'st thou my cure?
Horrible villain! or I'll spurn thine eyes
How 'tis abroad. Pompey is strong at sea,
How I convey my shame out of thine eyes
How could you give it him?
How goes it with my brave Mark Antony?
How lesser enmities may give way to greater.
How much we do o'er-count thee.
How much you were my conqueror, and that
How now! Do you hear this?
How now! Is he dead?
How now, Varrius!
How now, my lord, is't not after midnight?
How now, worthy soldier?
How now? Where's your master?
How this Herculean Roman does become
How, with his banners, and his well-paid ranks,
Howe'er it pleases you to take it so,
Howe'er repented after.
Humbly call'd mistress.
Humbly entreating from your royal thoughts
I am a mother to you.
I am afeard the life of Helen, lady,
I am either maid, or else this old man's wife.
I am from humble, he from honoured name;
I am going, forsooth. The business is for Helen to come hither.
I am not an impostor, that proclaim
I am so lated in the world that I
I am supposed dead. The army breaking,
I am the caitiff that do hold him to't;
I am undone; there is no living, none,
I and my sword will earn our chronicle.
I bade her, if her fortunes ever stood
I came before you here a man prepar'd
I can build up. Strange is it that our bloods,
I can create the rest. Virtue and she
I cannot hate thee worser than I do
I care no more for than I do for heaven,
I come to tender it, and my appliance,
I could do more to do Antonius good,
I could have well diverted her intents,
I could not answer in that course of honour
I crave our composition may be written,
I did not send you. If you find him sad,
I did not think, sir, to have met you here.
I do beseech you, whither is he gone?
I do perceive't. There's nothing in her yet.
I dread, too late.
I faint. O Iras, Charmian! 'Tis no matter.
I fight against thee? No! I will go seek
I follow'd that I blush to look upon.
I found you wondrous kind. There is your ring,
I grant him part; but then, in his Armenia
I had thought t'have held it poor; but since my lord
I have done all. Bid them all fly; begone.       Exit SCARUS
I have done enough. A lower place, note well,
I have felt so many quirks of joy and grief
I have forgiven and forgotten all;
I have forgot him; my imagination
I have led you oft; carry me now, good friends,
I have letters that my son will be here to-night. I shall beseech
I have liv'd in such dishonour that the gods
I have many other ways to die, meantime
I have myself resolv'd upon a course
I have no ears to his request. The Queen
I have no power upon you; hers you are.
I have not heard examin'd.
I have not kept my square; but that to come
I have seen her wear it; and she reckon'd it
I have to use. Thy frank election make;
I have told him Lepidus was grown too cruel,
I hear him as he flatter'd.
I here importune death awhile, until
I hope well of to-morrow, and will lead you
I kiss his conquring hand. Tell him I am prompt
I knew it for my bond.                                Exeunt
I know I love in vain, strive against hope;
I know not how I shall assure you further
I know not what he shall. God send him well!
I know not, except in that country he had the honour to be the
I know you could not lack, I am certain on't,
I knowing all my peril, thou no art.
I laugh'd him into patience; and next morn,
I laughed him out of patience; and that night
I lay upon thy lips.
I learn'd of thee. How? not dead? not dead?-
I leave you to your wisdom.
I long to talk with the young noble soldier.
I look'd her in the face, and saw her led
I lose myself; better I were not yours
I lov'd you dearly, would you believe my oaths
I love your son.
I made these wars for Egypt; and the Queen-
I mean.
I met the ravin lion when he roar'd
I might have told hereafter.
I must from this enchanting queen break off.
I must produce my power. Here, take her hand,
I never hated thee; I have seen thee fight,
I never lov'd you much; but I ha' prais'd ye
I never saw an action of such shame;
I never writ, nor no man ever loved.
I prithee do not strive against my vows.
I prithee turn aside and weep for her;
I quickly were dissolved from my hive,
I saw the treasons planted.
I saw upon her finger.
I shall be furnish'd to inform you rightly
I shall continue thankful.
I shall discover all. I'll bring thee word
I should do thus.                                 [Flourish]
I should have found it afterwards well done,
I should, and thou couldst not. My queen and Eros
I sing but after you.
I still pour in the waters of my love,
I stood engag'd; but when I had subscrib'd
I stuck my choice upon her, ere my heart
I tell you true. Best you saf'd the bringer
I that do bring the news made not the match.
I think I have his letter in my pocket.
I told him of myself, which was as much
I turn you not away; but, like a master
I was compell'd to her; but I love the
I was of late as petty to his ends
I will ask Antony. Sir, sir, thou art so leaky
I will be true despite thy scythe and thee.
I will bestow some precepts of this virgin,
I will come after you with what good speed
I will conduct you where you shall be lodg'd;
I will employ thee back again; I find thee
I will entreat you, when you see my son,
I will no more enforce mine office on you;
I will not bed her.
I will not stay behind.
I will o'ertake thee, Cleopatra, and
I will oppose his fate. Our force by land
I will possess you of that ship and treasure.
I will subscribe- gentle adieus and greetings;
I wish I could be made so many men,
I wore his sword Philippan.
I would he lov'd his wife; if he were honester
I would not shave't to-day.
I would not tell you what I would, my lord.
I would poison that vile rascal.
I would relieve her. Had you that craft to reave her
I would you had her spirit in such another!
I would you had kneel'd, my lord, to ask me mercy;
I' th' East my pleasure lies.
I' th' market-place, on a tribunal silver'd,
I'll after them.                                        Exit
I'll beat him, and if I could but meet him again.
I'll discover that which shall undo the Florentine.
I'll have. But how, when Antony is gone,
I'll love her dearly, ever, ever dearly.
I'll make death love me; for I will contend
I'll never do you wrong for your own sake.
I'll never follow thy pall'd fortunes more.
I'll none of him.
I'll order take my mother shall not hear.
I'll play the penitent to you; but mine honesty
I'll raise the preparation of a war
I'll seem the fool I am not. Antony
I'll send her straight away. To-morrow
I'll set thee in a shower of gold, and hail
I'll swear I am a maid, and he knows not.
I'll think them every one an Antony,
I'll to the Tuscan wars, and never bed her.
I'll to the wars, she to her single sorrow.
I'll wrestle with you in my strength of love.
I, after him, do after him wish too,
I, his despiteful Juno, sent him forth
If 'twill tie up thy discontented sword
If Bertram be away. 'Twere all one
If Cleopatra heard you, your reproof
If I be one.
If I had given you this at over-night,
If I should swear by Jove's great attributes
If I would say 'Agrippa, be it so,'
If e'er thou look'dst on majesty.
If ever we are nature's, these are ours; this thorn
If fortune be not ours to-day, it is
If from the field I shall return once more
If he would spend his power. God save you, sir.
If it be not, forswear't; howe'er, I charge thee,
If it be so, you have wound a goodly clew;
If it be well to live; but better 'twere
If seriously I may convey my thoughts
If swift thought break it not, a swifter mean
If that the former dare but what it can,
If the quick fire of youth light not your mind,
If the scarce-bearded Caesar have not sent
If there be here German, or Dane, Low Dutch,
If they demand; beware of being captives
If this be error and upon me proved,
If this division chance, ne'er stood between,
If thou again say 'Yes.'
If thou canst like this creature as a maid,
If thou dost play with him at any game,
If thou dost seek to have what thou dost hide,
If thou engrossest all the griefs are thine,
If thou so yield him, there is gold, and here
If thou turn back and my loud crying still.
If thou with Caesar paragon again
If thy unworthiness raised love in me,
If we should serve with horse and mares together
If you should tender your supposed aid,
If you will see her. Now, by my faith and honour,
If you will tarry, holy pilgrim,
If, or for nothing or a little,
Importeth thee to know, this bears.       [Gives the letter]
Impossible be strange attempts to those
In Alexandria. Here's the manner of't:
In Cleopatra's sails their nests. The augurers
In Egypt sits at dinner, and will make
In Egypt with his joy; but between both.
In Florence was it from a casement thrown me,
In Fulvia's death how mine receiv'd shall be.
In a sweet verbal brief it did concern
In any staining act.
In argument of praise, or to the worth
In aught an eunuch has. 'Tis well for thee
In common sense, sense saves another way.
In differences so mighty. If she be
In every power that moves.
In eye of Caesar's battle; from which place
In fine, delivers me to fill the time,
In happy time!
In heavy satisfaction, and would never
In heedfull'st reservation to bestow them,
In her pavilion, cloth-of-gold, of tissue,
In his abominations, turns you off,
In his bright radiance and collateral light
In honestest defence.
In manners, as in shape! Thy blood and virtue
In me at once. But to the brightest beams
In me to lose.
In me to lose. Thus your own proper wisdom
In most rich choice; yet, in his idle fire,
In nothing art thou black save in thy deeds,
In our heart's table-heart too capable
In our own filth drop our clear judgments, make us
In soft and delicate Lethe.
In state of health, thou say'st; and, thou say'st, free.
In such a business give me leave to use
In th' habiliments of the goddess Isis
In that and all your worthiest affairs.
In the brave squares of war. Yet now- no matter.
In the unlawful purpose.
In thee't had been good service. Thou must know
In their best fortunes strong; but want will perjure
In their poor praise he humbled. Such a man
In these to nature she's immediate heir;
In things right true my heart and eyes have erred,
In this my light deliverance, I have spoke
In time we hate that which we often fear.
In what he did profess, well found.
In your distrust.
In your fine frame hath love no quality?
Indeed my mother! Or were you both our mothers,
Inform on that.
Inform'd.
Ingross'd by swift impress. In Caesar's fleet
Instruct my daughter how she shall persever,
Into a strumpet's fool. Behold and see.
Into th' abysm of hell. If he mislike
Into the hearts of such as have not thrived
Into the service of the time, and was
Into the staggers and the careless lapse
Into your guiding power. This is the man.
Invited her to supper. She replied
Is Antony again, I will be Cleopatra.
Is Caesar's homager. Else so thy cheek pays shame
Is Fulvia's death.
Is a reserved honesty, and that
Is all afraid to govern thee near him;
Is as 'twere born so.
Is as our earing. Fare thee well awhile.
Is come from Caesar; therefore hear it, Antony.
Is come indeed- when I should see behind me
Is come into the field.
Is dearest to me I have no skill in sense
Is done unto thy hand. The last she spake
Is forth to man his galleys. To the vales,
Is free for me to ask, thee to bestow.
Is fully out.
Is good without a name. Vileness is so:
Is he whipt?
Is her own dower; honour and wealth from me.
Is here attending; her business looks in her
Is now a widower.
Is now eclips'd, and it portends alone
Is often left unlov'd. We should have met you
Is powerful to araise King Pepin, nay,
Is shiny, and they say we shall embattle
Is so from word to word; and then you cannot,
Is there no military policy how virgins might blow up men?
Is thine, if thou wilt ha't.
Is this the man you speak of?
Is to be frighted out of fear, and in that mood
Is to do thus [emhracing], when such a mutual pair
Is twice the other twain. But let us rear
Is valiant and dejected; and by starts
Is weaker than the wine, and mine own tongue
Is wicked meaning in a lawful deed,
Is't real that I see?
Isis, I beseech thee!
It beggar'd all description. She did lie
It cannot be thus long; the sides of nature
It eats the sword it fights with. I will seek
It hath been taught us from the primal state
It is a dropsied honour. Good alone
It is asham'd to bear me. Friends, come hither.
It is in us to plant thine honour where
It is my business too. Farewell.
It is not Caesar's natural vice to hate
It is not so with Him that all things knows,
It is reported thou didst eat strange flesh,
It is the show and seal of nature's truth,
It must not be with this.
It not concern'd me.
It nothing ill becomes thee.
It should be better he became her guest;
It wounds thine honour that I speak it now-
It's monstrous labour when I wash my brain
Italian, or French, let him speak to me;
Itself with strength. Seal then, and all is done.
Keep his brain fuming. Epicurean cooks
Keep off them, for you sink.
Kill me outright with looks, and rid my pain.
King Manchus of Arabia; King of Pont;
Kingdoms and provinces.
Kingdoms are clay; our dungy earth alike
Kiss it, my warrior- he hath fought to-day
Kneel down, kneel down, and wonder.
Know that to-morrow the last of many battles
Know you him?
Knowing all measures, the full Caesar will
Knowing him is enough. On's bed of death
Lack blood to think on't, and flush youth revolt.
Laden with gold; take that; divide it. Fly,
Last night you did desire it. Speak not to us.
Laugh at his challenge.
Lay a more noble thought upon mine honour
Lays down his wanton siege before her beauty,
Leave me, I pray, a little; pray you now;
Leave thy lascivious wassails. When thou once
Leaving the fight in height, flies after her.
Led hither by pure love. Which of them both
Lend me an arm-the rest have worn me out
Lepidus, let him speak.
Lest I be taken. Not th' imperious show
Lest eyes well-seeing thy foul faults should find.
Lest my remembrance suffer ill report;
Let Antony look over Caesar's head
Let Neptune hear we bid a loud farewell
Let every word weigh heavy of her worth
Let her not say 'tis I that keep you here-
Let him fear this; for it will come to pass
Let him for ever go- let him not, Charmian-
Let me lodge Lichas on the horns o' th' moon,
Let me request you off; our graver business
Let no unkind, no fair beseechers kill,
Let not the piece of virtue which is set
Let not your hate encounter with my love,
Let the rest go.
Let the white death sit on thy cheek for ever,
Let us assay our plot; which, if it speed,
Let witchcraft join with beauty, lust with both;
Let your best love draw to that point which seeks
Let's have one other gaudy night. Call to me
Let's mock the midnight bell.
Let's not confound the time with conference harsh;
Let's see how it will give off.
Let's take the instant by the forward top;
Lie down, and stray no farther. Now all labour
Lie graveless, till the flies and gnats of Nile
Lies richer in your thoughts than on his tomb;
Like Caesar's sister. The wife of Antony
Like a remorseful pardon slowly carried,
Like a right gypsy hath at fast and loose
Like balls before me; I'll unhair thy head;
Like boys unto a muss, kings would start forth
Like friends long lost. Triple-turn'd whore! 'tis thou
Like holy Phoebus' car. Give me thy hand.
Like perfect honour.
Like to a vagabond flag upon the stream,
Long ere she did appear. The trees by th' way
Longing for what it had not. Nay, the dust
Look here, and at thy sovereign leisure read
Look out o' th' other side your monument;
Look where they come!
Look, he has spied us.
Look, here I have you; thus I let you go,
Looking for Antony. But all the charms of love,
Looks bleak i' th' cold wind; withal, full oft we see
Loosing upon thee in the name of justice,
Lord of his reason. What though you fled
Love make your fortunes twenty times above
Love's fire heats water, water cools not love.
Love, I am full of lead. Some wine,
Luxuriously pick'd out; for I am sure,
Madam, my lord will go away to-night:
Madding my eagerness with her restraint,
Made friends of them, jointing their force 'gainst Caesar,
Made good guard for itself.
Made out of her impatience- which not wanted
Made the all-honour'd honest Roman, Brutus,
Made wars upon me, and their contestation
Make battery to our ears with the loud music,
Make boot of his distraction. Never anger
Make but my name thy love, and love that still,
Make her thanks bless thee. O thou day o' th' world,
Make it so known.
Make me but like my thoughts, and I shall prove
Make me revenger. Bear the King's son's body
Make mingle with our rattling tabourines,
Make space enough between you.
Make the sea serve them, which they ear and wound
Make thine own edict for thy pains, which we
Make trivial price of serious things we have,
Makes his approaches to the port of Rome;
Makes only wars on thee. Bid them all fly;
Makes the remembrance dear. Well, call him hither;
Making and marring fortunes. You did know
Making them proud of his humility
Manage this war.
Many likelihoods inform'd me of this before, which hung so
Many receipts he gave me; chiefly one,
Mardian, go tell him I have slain myself;
Mark Antony is every hour in Rome
Married to your good service, stay till death.
Marry that will, I live and die a maid.
Mars what it does; yea, very force entangles
May be a coward's whose ministers would prevail
May be it is the period of your duty.
May be the amorous Count solicits her
May cement their divisions, and bind up
May concern Caesar.
May hang no longer on me. Throw my heart
May it be gently heard. When we debate
May justly diet me. I pray you yet-
May make it probable need.
May make too great an act; for learn this, Silius:
May not fly forth of Egypt. Hast thou affections?
May prove coherent. Every night he comes
May spend our wonder too, or take off thine
May token to the future our past deeds.
Mayst thou inherit too! Welcome to Paris.
Me and my service, ever whilst I live,
Me to proclaim the truth; and I am come,
Means and attendants, and my loving greetings
Measures of wheat to Rome; this 'greed upon,
Melt Egypt into Nile! and kindly creatures
Men are to mell with, boys are not to kiss;
Menas, I'll not on shore.
Menas; if our eyes had authority, here they might take two
Menecrates and Menas, famous pirates,
Mere fathers of their garments; whose constancies
Mesopotamia, and the shelters whither
Methinks I hear him now; his plausive words
Methought you saw a serpent. What's in 'mother'
Might be a copy to these younger times;
Might be my question.
Might be to you in Egypt. Yet, if you there
Might have prevented many. Eros, ho!
Might with effects of them follow our friends
Might you not know she would do as she has done
Mine eyes did sicken at the sight and could not
Mine honour, it. Repent that e'er thy tongue
Mine ransoms yours, and yours must ransom me.
Moist Hesperus hath quench'd his sleepy lamp,
More fiery by night's blackness; hereditary
More in their officer, than person. Sossius,
More larger list of sceptres.
More should I question thee, and more I must,
More than my father's skill, which was the great'st
More than they were in note. Amongst the rest
More than to see this ring. Take him away.
More tight at this than thou. Dispatch. O love,
More womanly than he; hardly gave audience, or
More worthy I to be beloved of thee.
Morgan, whom he supposes to be a friar, from the time of his
Most fit for business. Go make thee ready;
Most grossly by his own!
Most noble Caesar, shalt thou have report
Most useful for thy country.
Murder in healing wounds. Then, noble partners,
Must I be comforted, not in his sphere.
Must answer for your raising? I know her well:
Must be digested; give a favour from you,
Must die for love. 'Twas pretty, though a plague,
Must sanctify his relics. Who comes here?
Must wear your spirits low; we cannot help it.
My Antony is away.
My art is not past power nor you past cure.
My being here it is that holds thee hence.
My better service, when my turpitude
My bluest veins to kiss- a hand that kings
My captain and my emperor, let me say,
My chastity's the jewel of our house,
My dearest master, your dear son, may hie.
My duty on your hand.
My fancy to your eyes. When I consider
My fear hath catch'd your fondness. Now I see
My fleet hath yielded to the foe, and yonder
My fore-past proofs, howe'er the matter fall,
My friends were poor, but honest; so's my love.
My grieved ear withal; whereon I begg'd
My haste is very great. Farewell; hie home.
My heart is heavy, and mine age is weak;
My heart was to thy rudder tied by th' strings,
My house, mine honour, yea, my life, be thine,
My husband hies him home; where, heaven aiding,
My idleness doth hatch. How now, Enobarbus!
My latter part of life.                                 Exit
My legions and my horse; six kings already
My lord desires you presently; my news
My love and her desert; that canst not dream
My love as it begins shall so persever.
My low and humble name to propagate
My man of men.
My master, my dear lord he is; and I
My mistress Cleopatra sent me to thee.
My mistress lov'd thee, and her fortunes mingled
My mother did but duty; such, my lord,
My mother told me just how he would woo,
My mouth no more were broken than these boys',
My music playing far off, I will betray
My noble grapes, an if my royal fox
My playfellow, your hand, this kingly seal
My powers are crescent, and my auguring hope
My purposes do draw me much about.
My reasons are most strong; and you shall know them
My son corrupts a well-derived nature
My son's no dearer.
My speech and what is done, tell him he has
My suit, as I do understand, you know,
My sword, made weak by my affection, would
My treasure's in the harbour, take it. O,
My very hairs do mutiny; for the white
Myself against the level of mine aim;
Myself in my incertain grounds to fail
Name Cleopatra as she is call'd in Rome.
Natural rebellion, done i' th' blaze of youth,
Nay, do so, for indeed I have lost command;
Nay, weep not, gentle Eros; there is left us
Necessitied to help, that by this token
New wars 'gainst Pompey; made his will, and read it
Next, Cleopatra does confess thy greatness,
No chance may shake it. Give me grace to lay
No grapes, my royal fox? Yes, but you will
No honourable trust. I have done ill,
No messenger but thine, and all alone
No more a soldier. Bruised pieces, go;
No note upon my parents, his all noble.
No vessel can peep forth but 'tis as soon
No want of conscience hold it that I call,
No wars without doors. Caesar gets money where
No way excuse his foils when we do bear
No worse a husband than the best of men;
Noble, courageous, high, unmatchable,
Nobler than my revolt is infamous,
Nor curstness grow to th' matter.
Nor dare I say 'tis mine, and yet it is;
Nor either cares for him.
Nor make replies of loathness; take the hint
Nor would I have him till I do deserve him;
Not Caesar's valour hath o'erthrown Antony,
Not as deserv'd.
Not as you serv'd the cause, but as't had been
Not by the title. She is young, wise, fair;
Not fearing the displeasure of your master,
Not in the power on't. So our leader's led,
Not knowing them until we know their grave.
Not lack your company.
Not like a formal man.
Not many moons gone by.
Not mov'd by Antony.
Not one of those but had a noble father.
Not one word more of the consumed time.
Not sickness should detain me.                    [Flourish]
Not to consider in what case thou stand'st
Not to woo honour, but to wed it; when
Not what he knew I was. He makes me angry;
Note him, good Charmian; 'tis the man; but note him!
Nothing acquainted with these businesses;
Nothing in France until he has no wife!
Nothing more dear to me. You are abus'd
Now for the love of Love and her soft hours,
Now hazarded to thy grace.
Now his important blood will nought deny
Now leaves him.
Now like a man of steel. You that will fight,
Now the witch take me if I meant it thus!
Now will I charge you in the band of truth,
O Antony! O Antony!                                   [Dies]
O cunning love, with tears thou keep'st me blind,
O happy horse, to bear the weight of Antony!
O heavenly mingle! Be'st thou sad or merry,
O infinite virtue, com'st thou smiling from
O misery on't!- the wise gods seel our eyes,
O my dear mother, do I see you living?
O sun, thy uprise shall I see no more!
O this false soul of Egypt! this grave charm-
O! from Italy?
O' th' world, I would pursue it.
O'er whom both sovereign power and father's voice
O'er your content these strong necessities,
O'erbears it and burns on.
O'erflows the measure. Those his goodly eyes,
O'erpicturing that Venus where we see
O, come, Ventidius,
O, he has given example for our flight
O, my oblivion is a very Antony,
O, thy vile lady!
Obey it on all cause.
Obey our will, which travails in thy good;
Octavia to his wife; whose beauty claims
Of Antony's death.                            [Kills himself
Of Cappadocia; Philadelphos, king
Of Cneius Pompey's, besides what hotter hours,
Of Comagene; Polemon and Amyntas,
Of Mars's fiery steed. To other regions!
Of Paphlagonia; the Thracian king, Adallas;
Of Sicily, Sardinia; and I must
Of a detesting lord.
Of all thy sex; most monster-like, be shown
Of audience nor desire shall fail, so she
Of better deeds to-morrow. Rest you happy!            Exeunt
Of both is flatter'd; but he neither loves,
Of colour, weight, and heat, pour'd all together,
Of every line and trick of his sweet favour.
Of excellent dissembling, and let it look
Of fortunate Caesar, drawn before him, branded
Of greatest justice. Write, write, Rinaldo,
Of heaven, not me, make an experiment.
Of her I am to speak.
Of her that threw it. Noble she was, and thought
Of his profession, that his good receipt
Of honour'd bones indeed. What should be said?
Of hot and cold; he was nor sad nor merry.
Of late upon me. I must thank him only,
Of lower Syria, Cyprus, Lydia,
Of many our contriving friends in Rome
Of many thousand kisses the poor last
Of me for jests; but now I'll set my teeth,
Of my dear father's gift stands chief in power,
Of noble bachelors stand at my bestowing,
Of pretty, fond, adoptious christendoms
Of rare and prov'd effects, such as his reading
Of richest eyes; whose words all ears took captive;
Of semblable import- but he hath wag'd
Of six preceding ancestors, that gem
Of smoky muskets? O you leaden messengers,
Of stirs abroad, I shall beseech you, sir,
Of that and all the progress, more and less,
Of the adjacent wharfs. The city cast
Of the full-fortun'd Caesar ever shall
Of the great Count himself, she is too mean
Of the last monarchy-see that you come
Of the non-sparing war? And is it I
Of the poor suppliant, who by this, I know,
Of the rang'd empire fall! Here is my space.
Of those that serv'd Mark Antony but late
Of us and those that love you. Best of comfort,
Of us must Pompey presently be sought,
Of us that trade in love.
Of virtue for the name; but do not so.
Of war-mark'd footmen; leave unexecuted
Of what I have begun.
Of what I spoke, unpitied let me die;
Of what I was i' th' morning; but next day
Of what hath come to pass; for when she saw-
Of what he has and has not.
Of what should stead her most?
Of which I do accuse myself so sorely
Of worthy Frenchmen; let higher Italy-
Of younger spirits, whose apprehensive senses
Of your infirmity?
Of youth and ignorance; both my revenge and hate
Of youth upon him; from which the world should note
Off, pluck off!
Offence of mighty note; but to himself
Oft does them by the weakest minister.
Oft expectation fails, and most oft there
Oft our displeasures, to ourselves unjust,
On blossoming Caesar; and this pine is bark'd
On more mechanic compliment; I'll leave thee
On my free will. My lord, Mark Antony,
On my particular. Prepar'd I was not
On pain of punishment, the world to weet
On the catastrophe and heel of pastime,
On the opposer.
Once for thy sprightly comfort, and tenfold
Once name you derogately when to sound your name
One ever near thee. Call for Enobarbus,
One of my place in Syria, his lieutenant,
One of the greatest in the Christian world
Only my plague thus far I count my gain,
Only th' adulterous Antony, most large
Only to seem to deserve well, and to beguile the supposition of
Only, in this disguise, I think't no sin
Or I will throw thee from my care for ever
Or I'll unpeople Egypt.                               Exeunt
Or bathe my dying honour in the blood
Or being, concern you not.
Or did it from his teeth.
Or does he walk? or is he on his horse?
Or else he seeks out us.
Or foison follow. The higher Nilus swells
Or four and twenty times the pilot's glass
Or friends with Caesar, or not captive to him,
Or lose myself in dotage.
Or murmuring 'Where's my serpent of old Nile?'
Or needs not us. If Caesar please, our master
Or take his life there. This if she perform,
Or thou, the greatest soldier of the world,
Or thy precedent services are all
Or would have done't myself. Your emperor
Or, ere they meet, in me, O nature, cesse!
Our blood to us, this to our blood is born.
Our faith mere folly. Yet he that can endure
Our great competitor. From Alexandria
Our great self and our credit to esteem
Our landmen will stand up.
Our letters are prepar'd.                   Exeunt MESSENGER
Our lives upon to use our strongest hands.
Our means will make us means.
Our navy thrive, I have an absolute hope
Our nineteen legions thou shalt hold by land,
Our own love waking cries to see what's done,
Our quick remove from hence.
Our separation so abides and flies
Our services awhile; but my full heart
Our slow designs when we ourselves are dull.
Our strength is all gone into heaviness;
Our targes undinted.
Our trivial difference loud, we do commit
Our waggon is prepar'd, and time revives us.
Our will is Antony be took alive;
Our written purposes before us sent;
Ours be your patience then, and yours our parts;
Ourselves alone. I'll write it. Follow me.
Ourselves to end ourselves.
Out of a casement.
Out of our question wipe him.
Out of the host. I must attend mine office,
Out of the mind.
Out-go my thinking on you.
Pack'd cards with Caesar, and false-play'd my glory
Patient Octavia plough thy visage up
Pawn their experience to their present pleasure,
Pays this for Marcus Crassus.
Perforce am thine and all that is in me.
Perform't, or else we damn thee.'
Petition us at home. Sextus Pompeius
Plant those that have revolted in the vant,
Pleas'd fortune does of Marcus Crassus' death
Please it this matron and this gentle maid
Please it your Majesty, I have done already.
Pompey doth this day laugh away his fortune.
Pompey the Great and all his dignities
Pour out the pack of matter to mine ear,
Praying for both parts.
Prays, and destroys the prayer; no mid-way
Prejudicates the business, and would seem
Prithee, how many boys and wenches must I have?
Proffers not took reap thanks for their reward.
Proportion'd to our cause, must be as great
Proud and disdainful, harping on what I am,
Proud scornful boy, unworthy this good gift,
Prove that I husbanded her bed in Florence,
Prove this a prosp'rous day, the three-nook'd world
Publicola, and Caelius are for sea;
Purple the sails, and so perfumed that
Pursuit would be but vain.
Put colour in thy cheek.
Put garlands on thy head.
Put me to some impatience. Though I lose
Quarter'd the world, and o'er green Neptune's back
Quicken a rock, and make you dance canary
Quicken with kissing. Had my lips that power,
Rail thou in Fulvia's phrase, and taunt my faults
Rais'd by your populous troops. But you are come
Ram thou thy fruitful tidings in mine ears,
Rather corrupt me ever!
Rather in power than use, and keep thy friend
Rather than purchas'd; what he cannot change
Read not my blemishes in the world's report.
Receive the ring again.
Religious in mine error, I adore
Remain in't as thou mayst.
Remain there but an hour, nor speak to me:
Remains in use with you. Our Italy
Report the feature of Octavia, her years,
Reports but coarsely of her.
Reprove the brown for rashness, and they them
Requires to live in Egypt; which not granted,
Resolv'd to carry her. Let her in fine consent,
Resolvedly more leisure shall express.
Restores his heart. When valour preys on reason,
Returns us thanks.
Rich in his father's honour, creeps apace
Rich pearls upon thee.
Rid all the sea of pirates; then to send
Ride on the pants triumphing.
Rinaldo, you did never lack advice so much
Rise from thy stool.
Room for six scotches more.
Rust, sword; cool, blushes; and, Parolles, live
SCARUS. I'll halt after.                              Exeunt
SECOND LORD. O, 'tis brave wars!
Safer than mine own two, more dear. I have so:
Safest in shame. Being fool'd, by fool'ry thrive.
Salt Cleopatra, soften thy wan'd lip!
Say 'I am none of thine.'
Say 'the brave Antony.'
Say I am dancing; if in mirth, report
Say that I wish he never find more cause
Say that the last I spoke was 'Antony'
Say they know not, they cannot tell; look grimly,
Say thou, shall call her mistress.' So he nodded,
Say to Ventidius I would speak with him.
Say to great Caesar this: in deputation
Say what I think of it, since I have found
Says it will come to th' full. Mark Antony
Scant not my cups, and make as much of me
Scorn'd a fair colour or express'd it stol'n,
Sear'd otherwise; ne worse of worst-extended
Sebastian, so many; Corambus, so many; Jaques, so many; Guiltian,
See it so grossly shown in thy behaviours
See when and where she died.
Seeming to bear it lightly. Take me up.
Seems much unequal. He's married to Octavia.
Send for your ring, I will return it home,
Send forth your amorous token for fair Maudlin.
Serves for the matter that is then born in't.
Sextus Pompeius spoil'd, we had not rated him
Shake thou to look on't. Get thee back to Caesar;
Shall I do that which all the Parthian darts,
Shall I stay here to do 't? No, no, although
Shall all be done by th' rule. Good night, dear lady.
Shall be for me, and, to requite you further,
Shall be my surety; fore whose throne 'tis needful,
Shall bear the olive freely.
Shall die a beggar. Ink and paper, Charmian.
Shall enter me with him.
Shall fall you for refusing him at sea,
Shall for my legacy be sanctified
Shall furnish me to those Italian fields
Shall have the fame. I have heard that Julius Caesar
Shall make it live again. Woo't thou fight well?
Shall make me live. Who knows himself a braggart,
Shall make thy peace for moving me to rage;
Shall more attend upon the coming space,
Shall never find it more.
Shall not make poor my greatness, nor my power
Shall on them settle. You know your places well;
Shall outstrike thought; but thought will do't, I feel.
Shall pass on thy approof. Most noble Antony,
Shall seem expedient on the now-born brief,
Shall set thee on triumphant chariots and
Shall stain your brother. Make your soonest haste;
Shall stay with us- Order for sea is given;
Shall tax my fears of little vanity,
Shall we dance now the Egyptian Bacchanals
Shall weigh thee to the beam; that wilt not know
Share the advice betwixt you; if both gain all,
Share with thy birthright! Love all, trust a few,
Sharpen with cloyless sauce his appetite,
She had dispos'd with Caesar, and that your rage
She had her breeding at my father's charge.
She has robb'd me of my sword.
She hath betray'd me, and shall die the death.
She knew her distance, and did angle for me,
She made great Caesar lay his sword to bed.
She might have been o'er ta'en; and yet she writes
She shall not sue unheard. So to them both.
She shows a body rather than a life,
She was a widow.
Shines o'er with civil swords: Sextus Pompeius
Should be depos'd; and, being, that we detain
Should conquer Antony; but woe 'tis so!
Should have an army for an usher, and
Should have ascended to the roof of heaven,
Should have borne men, and expectation fainted,
Should my performance perish.
Should say myself offended, and with you
Should solder up the rift.
Show me the way of yielding.
Shrewdness of policy too- I grieving grant
Since I have lost, have lov'd, was in mine eye
Since I nor wax nor honey can bring home,
Since Pompey's feast, as Menas says, is troubled
Since my appeal says I did strive to prove
Since my becomings kill me when they do not
Since saucy jacks so happy are in this,
Since she was Cleopatra? Whip him, fellows,
Since the first father wore it. This ring he holds
Since the physician at your father's died?
Since then hath made between them. Unto her
Since you are like to see the King before me,
Since you lack virtue, I will lose a husband-
Since you set up your rest 'gainst remedy.
Sir, you and I have lov'd- but there's not it.
Sir, you and I must part- but that's not it.
Sit laurel victory, and smooth success
Sit, my preserver, by thy patient's side;
Sits in the wind against me.                          Exeunt
Skill infinite or monstrous desperate.
Smarting in ling'ring pickle.
Smile upon this contract; whose ceremony
So 'tis our will he should.
So Antony loves.
So I return rebuked to my content,
So I were not his sister. Can't no other,
So bad an instrument; his name's Parolles.
So diff'ring in their acts. Yet if I knew
So does it no man else. Met'st thou my posts?
So far ask pardon as befits mine honour
So good as you have done.
So great weight in his lightness. If he fill'd
So half my Egypt were submerg'd and made
So holy writ in babes hath judgment shown,
So in approof lives not his epitaph
So is he, being a man.
So like a courtier, contempt nor bitterness
So make the choice of thy own time, for I,
So many mermaids, tended her i' th' eyes,
So mightily betray'd! Yet at the first
So much as lank'd not.
So much unsettled. This drives me to entreat you
So saucy with the hand of she here- what's her name
So shall thou feed on death, that feeds on men,
So stain our judgment, or corrupt our hope,
So strive upon your pulse. What! pale again?
So that my lord your son were not my brother-
So the poor third is up, till death enlarge his confine.
So there's my riddle: one that's dead is quick-
So will I pray that thou mayst have thy Will,
So your desires are yours.
So, so. Come, give me that. This way. Well said.
Some dishonour we had in the loss of that drum; but it is not to
Some ditch wherein to die; the foul'st best fits
Some monstrous malefactor. Prithee, friend,
Some private speech with you.
Some shipping, unrestor'd. Lastly, he frets
Some way to leave him.                                  Exit
Something in my behalf.
Something particular. His coin, ships, legions,
Something to save thy life.
Speaks to atone you.
Spending his manly marrow in her arms,
Splits what it speaks. The wild disguise hath almost
Spoke scandy of me; when perforce he could not
Spoke with the King, and have procur'd his leave
Steals ere we can effect them. You remember
Stomach not all. A more unhappy lady,
Stood pretty dimpled boys, like smiling Cupids,
Straight how 'tis like to go.                           Exit
Strange that his power should be. Canidius,
Strangers and foes do sunder and not kiss.
Strength'ned with what apology you think
Subdu'd me to her rate. She got the ring;
Subdue my worthiest self. The witch shall die.
Submits her to thy might, and of thee craves
Such were our faults, or then we thought them none.
Sufficing strokes for death.
Supposing that I lack'd it. But on, Caesar:
Sure, they are bastards to the English; the French ne'er got 'em.
Sweep your way for you. Pray you look not sad,
Sweet practiser, thy physic I will try,
Swell with the touches of those flower-soft hands
Syria, Cilicia, and Phoenicia. She
Take but good note, and you shall see in him
Take from his heart, take from his brain, from's time,
Take hence this Jack and whip him.
Take in that kingdom and enfranchise that;
Taken as seen; for Pompey's name strikes more
Tawny-finn'd fishes; my bended hook shall pierce
Tell him from his all-obeying breath I hear
Tell him thy entertainment; look thou say
Tell them your feats; whilst they with joyful tears
Ten thousand harms, more than the ills I know,
Tend me to-night two hours, I ask no more,
Th' Antoniad, the Egyptian admiral,
Th' ambition in my love thus plagues itself:
Th' inaudible and noiseless foot of Time
Th' incensing relics of it; let him approach,
Th' inevitable prosecution of
Than Cleopatra, nor the queen of Ptolemy
Than I dare blame my weakness. Will you see her,
Than I have in this ring. 'Twas mine, 'twas Helen's,
Than Telamon for his shield; the boar of Thessaly
Than by the negligent.
Than could his war resisted.
Than death and honour. Let's to supper, come,
Than drink so much in one.
Than for to think that I would sink it here.
Than gain which darkens him.
Than greatness going off.
Than in my thought it lies!
Than is his use.
Than our fore-goers. The mere word's a slave,
Than savages could suffer. Thou didst drink
Than she which by her death our Caesar tells
Than that which is to approach.
Than those I shed for him. What was he like?
Than was his loss, to course your flying flags
Than what he chooses.
Than with an old one dying.
Than yours so branchless. But, as you requested,
That Antony may seem to spend his fury
That I am sudden sick. Quick, and return.        Exit ALEXAS
That I may not be so, nor thou belied,
That I protest I simply am a maid.
That I should love a bright particular star
That I will joy no more.
That I will work against him. Therefore your oaths
That Lepidus of the triumvirate
That Photinus an eunuch and your maids
That all men follow.
That all the miseries which nature owes
That am with Phoebus' amorous pinches black,
That art not what th'art sure of! Get thee hence.
That barefoot plod I the cold ground upon,
That before you, and next unto high heaven,
That blinking Cupid gossips. Now shall he-
That call'd me timelier than my purpose hither;
That can such sweet use make of what they hate,
That chase thee from thy country, and expose
That dare leave two together. Fare you well.            Exit
That day appear'd; and oft before gave audience,
That do acknowledge Caesar, should I find them
That does afflict each other!
That done, laugh well at me.
That dost in vile misprision shackle up
That doth my life besiege. Farewell, young lords;
That downward hath succeeded in his house
That drew their swords with you. Did he not rather
That drive thee from the sportive court, where thou
That drums him from his sport and speaks as loud
That else must perish here.
That every braggart shall be found an ass.
That every tongue says beauty should look so.
That fame may cry you aloud. I say farewell.
That fell away have entertainment, but
That first we come to words; and therefore have we
That from Tarentum and Brundusium
That good convenience claims.
That happiness and prime can happy call.
That has done worthy service.
That has this morning left thee, would have still
That has to-day escap'd. I thank you all;
That have my heart parted betwixt two friends,
That he approves the common liar, who
That he does weigh too light. My greatest grief,
That he his high authority abus'd,
That he is lov'd of me; I follow him not
That he which is was wish'd until he were;
That heaven and earth may strike their sounds together
That hugs his kicky-wicky here at home,
That in their kind they speak it; only sin
That is Antonio, the Duke's eldest son;
That it might go on wheels!
That kneel'd unto the buds. Admit him, sir.     Exit SERVANT
That knows the tinct and multiplying med'cine,
That labouring art can never ransom nature
That leads him to these places; were I his lady
That life, a very rebel to my will,
That long time have been barren.
That magical word of war, we have effected;
That make their looks by his; he was not merry,
That makes me see, and cannot feed mine eye?
That makes the weight. Had I great Juno's power,
That means to be of note, begins betimes.
That ministers thine own death if I die.
That mov'd pale Cassius to conspire? and what
That murd'red Pompey.
That noises it against us.
That o'er the files and musters of the war
That of his fortunes you should make a staff
That only have fear'd Caesar. To the ports
That overtopp'd them all. Betray'd I am.
That pitiful rumour may report my flight
That presently you take your way for home,
That quickens Nilus' slime, I go from hence
That ride upon the violent speed of fire,
That ring's a thousand proofs.
That seeks not to find that her search implies,
That sets him high in fame.
That shall attend his love.
That she did make defect perfection,
That she may quickly come.
That she that makes me sin, awards me pain.
That she which marries you must marry me,
That she whom all men prais'd, and whom myself,
That she would never put it from her finger
That she'll demand. A ring the County wears
That sings with piercing; do not touch my lord.
That sleep and feeding may prorogue his honour
That so I harried him. Why, methinks, by him,
That spaniel'd me at heels, to whom I gave
That speak against us! A charge we bear i' th' war,
That stands upon the swell at the full of tide,
That surfeit on their ease, will day by day
That the first face of neither, on the start,
That the great figure of a council frames
That the mad Brutus ended; he alone
That thee may furnish, and my prayers pluck down,
That they take place when virtue's steely bones
That this distempered messenger of wet,
That thou art so inhuman- 'twill not prove so.
That thou couldst see my wars to-day, and knew'st
That thou didst love her, strikes some scores away
That thou, residing here, goes yet with me,
That time and place with this deceit so lawful
That truth should be suspected. Speak, is't so?
That twenty such rude boys might tend upon,
That we must leave thee to thy sinking, for
That we'll forsake ourselves. Give me that ring.
That weigh their pains in sense, and do suppose
That were enwombed mine. 'Tis often seen
That were excusable, that and thousands more
That what they do delay they not deny.
That which I durst not speak. His present gift
That which combin'd us was most great, and let not
That which none else can utter. By this marriage
That will speak anything?
That with the plume; 'tis a most gallant fellow.
That yarely frame the office. From the barge
That you are well acquainted with yourself,
That you do charge men with. Stand no more off,
That you express content; which we will pay
That you know well. Something it is I would-
That you start at it? I say I am your mother,
That's able to breathe life into a stone,
That, Escalus.
That, being unseminar'd, thy freer thoughts
That, when the exigent should come- which now
The Count Rousillon cannot be my brother:
The Duke will lay upon him all the honour
The General says you that have so traitorously discover'd the
The Jove of power make me, most weak, most weak,
The King has done you wrong; but, hush, 'tis so.      Exeunt
The King is render'd lost.
The King's disease-my project may deceive me,
The Tuscan service, freely have they leave
The absolute soldiership you have by land;
The actor may plead pardon. I'll none now.
The air of paradise did fan the house,
The anger'd ocean foams; with which I meant
The appetites they feed, but she makes hungry
The armourer of my heart. False, false; this, this.
The article of my oath-
The article of your oath, which you shall never
The barge she sat in, like a burnish'd throne,
The barks of trees thou brows'd. On the Alps
The battery from my heart. O, cleave, my sides!
The bidding of the fullest man, and worthiest
The bitter past, more welcome is the sweet.       [Flourish]
The blushes in my cheeks thus whisper me:
The bottom of your purpose.
The bravest questant shrinks, find what you seek,
The breese upon her, like a cow in June-
The buckles on his breast, reneges all temper,
The business we have talk'd of.
The carriage of his chafe.
The cause of our expedience to the Queen,
The circle of the Ptolemies for her heirs,
The colour of her hair. Bring me word quickly.
The confirmation of my promis'd gift,
The congregated college have concluded
The constancy and virtue of your love.
The courage of a woman; less noble mind
The court's a learning-place, and he is one-
The danger to itself?
The daughter of this lord?
The death of Fulvia, with more urgent touches,
The deeds of justest men.
The demi-Atlas of this earth, the arm
The discontents repair, and men's reports
The doom of Egypt.
The dove will peck the estridge; and I see still
The dust that did offend it.
The elements be kind to thee and make
The empire of the sea; our slippery people,
The fall of Antony.
The fancy out-work nature. On each side her
The fellow has a deal of that too much
The fellow has good judgment.
The fortress of it; for better might we
The fugitive Parthians follow; spur through Media,
The fundamental reasons of this war;
The garboils she awak'd. At the last, best.
The gift doth stretch itself as 'tis receiv'd,
The gold I give thee will I melt and pour
The good and bad together. He's friends with Caesar;
The good gods will mock me presently
The good precedence; fie upon 'but yet'!
The great prerogative and rite of love,
The greatest wrong of all. He lost a wife
The griefs between ye- to forget them quite
The guard, ho! O, dispatch me!
The hand could pluck her back that shov'd her on.
The heart of Antony, Octavia is
The heart of brothers govern in our loves
The help of heaven we count the act of men.
The help of mine own eyes.
The higher our opinion, that our stirring
The hind that would be mated by the lion
The holding every man shall bear as loud
The honour is sacred which he talks on now,
The honour that he loses. More I'll entreat you
The honour'd gashes whole.
The horned herd! For I have savage cause,
The horse were merely lost; the mares would bear
The itch of his affection should not then
The jeweller that owes the ring is sent for,
The kings o' th' earth for war. He hath assembled
The kings of Mede and Lycaonia, with
The kings that have revolted, and the soldier
The lamps of night in revel; is not more manlike
The lass I spoke of.
The last that e'er I took her leave at court,
The lean and wrinkled Cassius; and 'twas I
The legions and the horse whole, do you not?
The like from him.
The loyalty well held to fools does make
The main consents are had; and here we'll stay
The man is innocent.
The manner of his speech; for't cannot be
The many-colour'd Iris, rounds thine eye?
The merchandise which thou hast brought from Rome
The mered question. 'Twas a shame no less
The mightiest space in fortune nature brings
The ministration and required office
The more it promises; as it ebbs, the seedsman
The myst'ry of your loneliness, and find
The name and not the thing.
The name of Antony; it was divided
The nature of his great offence is dead,
The ne'er-lust-wearied Antony.
The ne'er-touch'd vestal. Try thy cunning, Thyreus;
The ne'er-yet-beaten horse of Parthia
The neighs of horse to tell of her approach
The noble Antony.
The noble ruin of her magic, Antony,
The offers we have sent you.
The office and devotion of their view
The opposite of itself. She's good, being gone;
The ostentation of our love, which left unshown
The other three are sealing. Octavia weeps
The other way's a Mars.                         [To MARDIAN]
The other, that she's in earth, from whence God send her quickly!
The people love me, and the sea is mine;
The petty difference we yet not know.
The place is dignified by the doer's deed;
The poisonous damp of night disponge upon me,
The praise of it by telling, you must know,
The praised of the King; who, so ennobled,
The prescript of this scroll. Our fortune lies
The property by what it is should go,
The purposes I bear; which are, or cease,
The qualities of people. Come, my queen;
The rack dislimns, and makes it indistinct,
The rather for I earnestly beseech,
The rather for I think I know your hostess
The reasons of our state I cannot yield,
The remembrance of her father never approaches her heart but the
The ring was never hers.
The roughest berry on the rudest hedge;
The routed fly. So thy grand captain, Antony,
The royal occupation! Thou shouldst see
The rush that lies before him; cries 'Fool Lepidus!'
The same upon your finger.
The senators alone of this great world,
The sevenfold shield of Ajax cannot keep
The shirt of Nessus is upon me; teach me,
The sides o' th' world may danger. Much is breeding
The soldier's virtue, rather makes choice of loss
The soul and body rive not more in parting
The stale of horses and the gilded puddle
The state of your affection; for your passions
The strong necessity of time commands
The strong-wing'd Mercury should fetch thee up,
The sun that looks upon his worshipper
The thing we sue for.
The thing why thou hast drawn it.
The third o' th' world is yours, which with a snaffle
The time is fair again.
The tread of a man's foot. To th' wars!
The triple pillar of the world transform'd
The troops are all scattered, and the commanders very poor
The universal landlord.
The use of your own virtues, for the which
The varying shore o' th' world. O Antony,
The violence of either thee becomes,
The water which they beat to follow faster,
The way which promises assurance; and
The weight we must convey with's will permit,
The well-lost life of mine on his Grace's cure.
The which you both denied.
The while I'll place you; then the boy shall sing;
The white hand of a lady fever thee!
The winds were love-sick with them; the oars were silver,
The wine peep through their scars. Come on, my queen,
The world's great snare uncaught?
The wounded chance of Antony, though my reason
Their fiery torcher his diurnal ring,
Their force, their purposes. Nay, I'll speak that
Their ships are yare; yours heavy. No disgrace
Their slimy jaws; and as I draw them up
Their wishes, do discandy, melt their sweets
Themselves when they be felt.
Then bid adieu to me, and say the tears
Then hast thou all again. Poor lord! is't
Then in the midst a tearing groan did break
Then put my tires and mantles on him, whilst
Then was the time for words. No going then!
Then will I swear beauty herself is black,
Then, Antony- but now. Well, on.                      Exeunt
There is a change upon you.
There is a remedy, approv'd, set down,
There lock yourself, and send him word you are dead.
There saw you labouring for him. What was't
There shall your master have a thousand loves,
There were a heart in Egypt.
There would he anchor his aspect and die
There's a great spirit gone! Thus did I desire it.
There's four or five, to great Saint Jaques bound,
There's hope in't yet.
There's not a minute of our lives should stretch
There's nothing here that is too good for him
There's place and means for every man alive.
There's sap in't yet. The next time I do fight
Therefore I lie with her, and she with me,
Therefore I pray you. I'll see you by and by.    [Sits down]
Therefore away, and leave her bravely; go.
Therefore be deaf to my unpitied folly,
Therefore, O Antony, stay not by his side.
Therefore, to th' war!
These drums! these trumpets, flutes! what!
These hands do lack nobility, that they strike
These strong Egyptian fetters I must break,
They are black vesper's pageants.
They cast their caps up and carouse together
They have put forth the haven-
They make in Italy; the borders maritime
They say our French lack language to deny,
They that least lend it you shall lack you first.
They will say 'Came you off with so little?' And great ones I
They'll grind the one the other. Where's Antony?
They, that they cannot help. How shall they credit
Thine, as he vow'd to thee in thine ear,
Things that are past are done with me. 'Tis thus:
Think all but one, and me in that one 'Will.'
Think him a great way fool, solely a coward;
Think, speak, cast, write, sing, number- hoo!-
This I do vow and this shall ever be,
This amorous surfeiter would have donn'd his helm
This be not cherish'd.
This creature's no such thing.
This foul Egyptian hath betrayed me.
This his good melancholy oft began,
This is a dreadful sentence.
This is a soldier's kiss. Rebukeable,
This is his Majesty; say your mind to him.
This is not well, rash and unbridled boy,
This is stiff news- hath with his Parthian force
This is the news: he fishes, drinks, and wastes
This is to horse. Adieu, noble Agrippa.
This man may help me to his Majesty's ear,
This morning, like the spirit of a youth
This orient pearl. His speech sticks in my heart.
This ring was ever hers, you shall as easy
This ring was mine; and when I gave it Helen
This ring, you say, was yours?
This sword and these my wounds? Let th' Egyptians
This sword but shown to Caesar, with this tidings,
This treasure of an oyster; at whose foot,
This wine for Lepidus!
Thither we bend again.
Those bated that inherit but the fall
Those tender limbs of thine to the event
Those that can see thou lov'st, and I am blind.
Thou art sure to lose; and of that natural luck
Thou art, if thou dar'st be, the earthly Jove;
Thou blushest, Antony, and that blood of thine
Thou diest within this hour.
Thou dost o'er-count me of my father's house.
Thou dost so crown with gold! This blows my heart.
Thou fell'st into my fury, for one death
Thou fumblest, Eros, and my queen's a squire
Thou has been rightly honest. So hast thou;
Thou has repeal'd, a second time receive
Thou hast been whipt for following him. Henceforth
Thou hast power to choose, and they none to forsake.
Thou kept'st a wife herself, thyself a maid.-
Thou kill'st thy mistress; but well and free,
Thou look'st like him that knows a warlike charge.
Thou mine of bounty, how wouldst thou have paid
Thou must not take my former sharpness ill.
Thou robb'st me of a moiety. He was my son;
Thou shalt be whipp'd with wire and stew'd in brine,
Thou shalt have none, Rousillon, none in France
Thou shouldst come like a Fury crown'd with snakes,
Thou strik'st not me; 'tis Caesar thou defeat'st.
Thou teachest me, O valiant Eros, what
Thou then wouldst kill me. Do't; the time is come.
Thou this to hazard needs must intimate
Thou thought'st to help me; and such thanks I give
Thou wast not made his daughter; and be thou sorry
Thou wouldst appear most ugly. He is married?
Thou, and thou, and thou. You have serv'd me well,
Though I am mad, I will not bite him. Call!
Though daintily brought up, with patience more
Though enemy, lost aim and could not?
Though he be painted one way like a Gorgon,
Though honesty be no puritan, yet it will do no hurt; it will
Though it be honest, it is never good
Though little he do feel it, set down sharply.
Though more to know could not be more to trust,
Though my revenges were high bent upon him
Though time seem so adverse and means unfit.
Though yet he never harm'd me, here I quit him.
Though you be therein curious, the least cause
Though you can guess what temperance should be,
Though you in swearing shake the throned gods,
Three kings I had newly feasted, and did want
Thrives in our idleness.
Through Alexandria make a jolly march;
Through flinty Tartar's bosom would peep forth,
Through proof of harness to my heart, and there
Through whom I might command it? Come thou near.
Thus speaks of him at Rome; but I will hope
Thus then, thou most renown'd: Caesar entreats
Thus would I wear them out.
Thy beck might from the bidding of the gods
Thy business?
Thy daemon, that thy spirit which keeps thee, is
Thy dearest quit thee.                                  Exit
Thy full supremacy thou knew'st, and that
Thy life is dear; for all that life can rate
Thy love's to me religious; else, does err.
Thy master dies thy scholar. To do thus
Thy master thus with pleach'd arms, bending down
Thy modesty can beg.
Thy name so buried in her.
Thy pains, not us'd, must by thyself be paid;
Thy resolv'd patient, on thee still rely.
Thy soldier, servant, making peace or war
Thy spirits all of comfort! Fare thee well.
Thy will by my performance shall be serv'd.
Tie up the libertine in a field of feasts,
Till by degrees the memory of my womb,
Till his deserts are past, begin to throw
Till honour be bought up, and no sword worn
Till like a boy you see him cringe his face,
Till my bad angel fire my good one out.
Till that the conquering wine hath steep'd our sense
Till their own scorn return to them unnoted
Till we do hear from them.
Till we have done at sea. Do not exceed
Till we perceiv'd both how you were wrong led
Till we serve you; but when you have our roses
Till your deeds gain them. Fairer prove your honour
Time was I did him a desired office,
To Lydia and to Ionia,
To a most hideous object. Thence it came
To answer like himself. If Caesar move him,
To be desir'd to give. It much would please him
To be entangled with those mouth-made vows,
To bear such idleness so near the heart
To beat me out of Egypt. My messenger
To bring bad news. Give to a gracious message
To bring forth this discov'ry. Seek these suitors.
To burn this night with torches. Know, my hearts,
To business that we love we rise betime,
To buy his will, it would not seem too dear,
To camp this host, we all would sup together,
To change a master. O, my fortunes have
To chide him from our eaves, for he persists
To choose from forth the royal blood of France,
To come into his presence.
To come thus was I not constrain'd, but did it
To consolate thine ear. Come, night; end, day.
To cool a gipsy's lust.
To cozen him that would unjustly win.                   Exit
To cure the desperate languishings whereof
To daff't for our repose, shall hear a storm.
To do this when I bade thee? Do it at once,
To do you justice, make their ministers
To draw their swords. But how the fear of us
To drench the Capitol, but that they would
To eat with us to-night; the charge and thanking
To empirics; or to dissever so
To entertain it so merrily with a fool.
To equal my great fortune.
To fly the favours of so good a king,
To follow Caesar in his triumph, since
To follow with allegiance a fall'n lord
To front this present time.
To gather from thee. Haply thou mayst inform
To give a kingdom for a mirth, to sit
To give great Charlemain a pen in's hand
To give it from me.
To give some labourers room.
To give them this discomfort? Look, they weep;
To give this poor petition to the King;
To glow the delicate cheeks which they did cool,
To go to Paris?
To grace it with your sorrows. Bid that welcome
To grow there, and to bear- 'Let me not live'-
To have command obey'd.
To have her name repeated; all her deserving
To have me out of Egypt, made wars here;
To have us make denial.
To hear from me you had left Antony,
To her unworthiness. It nothing steads us
To her whose state is such that cannot choose
To his grand sea.
To join like likes, and kiss like native things.
To join our kingdoms and our hearts; and never
To keep an adjunct to remember thee
To keep it builded be the ram to batter
To kiss these lips, I will appear in blood.
To lay his gay comparisons apart,
To lay my crown at 's feet, and there to kneel.
To lean upon. But it would warm his spirits
To let him breathe between the heavens and earth,
To let me be partaker.
To make distinction. Provide this messenger.
To make itself in thee fair and admir'd.
To make me fight at land!
To make my heart her vassal.
To make the coming hour o'erflow with joy
To make the even truth in pleasure flow.
To make this good?
To make you brothers, and to knit your hearts
To make yourself a son out of my blood.
To marry her, I'll add three thousand crowns
To mend the petty present, I will piece
To mine own fortune, and inform'd her fully
To our confusion.
To part from Rome; Caesar is sad; and Lepidus,
To part with unhack'd edges and bear back
To penetrative shame, whilst the wheel'd seat
To pluck his indignation on thy head
To prison with her. And away with him.
To prostitute our past-cure malady
To public ear;
To punish me for what you make me do
To recompense your love. Doubt not but heaven
To reel the streets at noon, and stand the buffet
To rot itself with motion.
To run and show their shoulders. Friends, be gone;
To say I am thy mother? What's the matter,
To say as I said then. But come, away!
To say the dead are well. Bring it to that,
To say thou dost not. Therefore tell me true;
To scourge th' ingratitude that despiteful Rome
To see him every hour; to sit and draw
To see our widower's second marriage-day.
To see't mine eyes are blasted.
To show her merit that did miss her love?
To shun the heaven that leads men to this hell.
To soft and gentle speech.
To sparkle in the spirits of my daughter,
To stand on either part.
To stoop in such a case.
To such whose place is under us, requires
To suffer all alike. That he should dream,
To swear against the truth so foul a be.
To swear by him whom I protest to love
To take this offer; but Mark Antony
To talk of your good father. In his youth
To taunt at slackness. Canidius, we
To tell him that his sword can never win
To tell me truly.
To tender it herself. I undertook it,
To th' court of guard; he is of note. Our hour
To th' extreme edge of hazard.
To the boy Caesar send this grizzled head,
To the dark house and the detested wife.
To the great sender turns a sour offence,
To the young Roman boy she hath sold me, and I fall
To the young man send humble treaties, dodge
To them for you.
To these great fellows. Sound and be hang'd, sound out!
To this I witness call the fools of time,
To this good purpose, that so fairly shows,
To this great fairy I'll commend thy acts,
To this unworthy husband of his wife;
To those of mine in court. I'll stay at home,
To thy fair way!
To trumpet such good tidings? If not well,
To try a larger fortune.
To wear your gentle limbs in my affairs,
To weep; whose every passion fully strives
To what is pass'd already.
To you that know them not. This to my mother.
To-day in our young lords; but they may jest
To-morrow to th' field. Flourish.                     Exeunt
To-night we'll wander through the streets and note
Together with my brave Egyptians all,
Tokens and letters which she did re-send;
Touch you the sourest points with sweetest terms,
Traduc'd by odious ballads; my maiden's name
Traduc'd for levity; and 'tis said in Rome
Transform us not to women.
Trust not to rotten planks. Do you misdoubt
Turn all to serpents! Call the slave again.
Turn your displeasure that way, for our faults
Under his chance. If we draw lots, he speeds;
Under my poor instructions yet must suffer
Under the service of a child as soon
Under this plot. She dies for't. Eros, ho!              Exit
Under thy own life's key; be check'd for silence,
Undo that prayer by crying out as loud
Unless her prayers, whom heaven delights to hear
Unless she gave it to yourself in bed-
Unless this general evil they maintain,
Unless thou tell'st me where thou hadst this ring,
Unloading of his mules.
Unquestion'd welcome and undoubted blest.
Unregist'red in vulgar fame, you have
Unstate his happiness, and be stag'd to th' show
Unto an enemy's triumph.
Up to a whore, who now are levying
Upon a tawny front. His captain's heart,
Upon her great disaster.
Upon himself.                       Exeunt all but ENOBARBUS
Upon his son; who, high in name and power,
Upon the first encounter drave them.
Upon the hill of Basan to outroar
Upon the hills adjoining to the city
Upon the present state, whose numbers threaten;
Upon the slime and ooze scatters his grain,
Upon this jump.                                       Exeunt
Upon thy promising fortune.
Upon your Grace's part; black and fearful
Upon your will to suffer.
Use me well in't. Sister, prove such a wife
Vanquish'd thereto by the fair grace and speech
Very necessity of this thought, that I,
Vouchsaf'd to think he had partners. You shall find there
Was 'Antony! most noble Antony!'
Was a sweet creature; such a ring as this,
Was beastly dumb'd by him.
Was beaten from Modena, where thou slew'st
Was borne so like a soldier that thy cheek
Was both herself and Love; O, then, give pity
Was foully snatch'd.
Was in my nobler thoughts most base is now
Was made much poorer by it; but your son,
Was never so emboss'd.
Was never yet for sleep.
Was theme for you; you were the word of war.
Wash the congealment from your wounds and kiss
Wast shot at with fair eyes, to be the mark
We are reconcil'd, and the first view shall kill
We have beat them to their beds. What, girl! though grey
We have caught the woodcock, and will keep him muffled
We have convenient convoy. You must know
We have jaded out o' th' field.
We have lost our labour; they are gone a contrary way. Hark! you
We may the number of the ships behold,
We mean to fight. Within our files there are
We met him thitherward; for thence we came,
We must return to th' court of guard. The night
We please them not by land.
We please to have it grow. Check thy contempt;
We scorn her most when most she offers blows.         Exeunt
We sent our schoolmaster; is 'a come back?
We shall appear before him.- On, there; pass along.
We shall remain in friendship, our conditions
We shall thrive now. Seest thou, my good fellow?
We stand up peerless.
We then can do't at land.
We will bind and hoodwink him so that he shall suppose no other
We will here part.
We wish it ours again; the present pleasure,
We'd fight there too. But this it is, our foot
We'll be before our welcome.
We'll ne'er come there again.'
We'll sift this matter further.
We'll speak with thee at sea; at land thou know'st
We'll strive to bear it for your worthy sake
We, poising us in her defective scale,
Weep for my pardon. So it must be, for now
Welcome, my good Alexas. Did I, Charmian,
Were I the wearer of Antonius' beard,
Were in his pride or sharpness; if they were,
Were mine at once. No; come thou home, Rousillon,
Were nice and lucky, men did ransom lives
Were publicly enthron'd; at the feet sat
Were to import forgetfulness in me.
Were to remember that the present need
Were we before our arinies, and to fight,
Were well deserv'd of rashness.
Were't not that we stand up against them all,
What I can help thee to thou shalt not miss.          Exeunt
What Venus did with Mars.
What an equivocal companion is this!
What are you?
What art thou, fellow?
What counts harsh fortune casts upon my face;
What dar'st thou venture?
What further comes.
What great creation and what dole of honour
What hath been cannot be. Who ever strove
What hoop should hold us stanch, from edge to edge
What husband in thy power I will command.
What is infirm from your sound parts shall fly,
What is most right. Mine honour was not yielded,
What is not holy, that we swear not by,
What it is worth embrac'd.
What law does vouch mine own.
What majesty is in her gait? Remember,
What mean you, madam? I have made no fault.             Exit
What our contempts doth often hurl from us
What power is it which mounts my love so high,
What say you to that?
What says the married woman? You may go.
What she has done for me?
What should not then be spar'd. He is already
What should this mean?
What was't to you?
What will ye do?
What willingly he did confound he wail'd,
What woman's that?
What you require of him? For he partly begs
What's this for?
What, Eros, Eros!
Whate'er falls more. We must to horse again;
Whate'er the course, the end is the renown.           Exeunt
Whate'er the ocean pales or sky inclips
When Antony found Julius Caesar dead,
When Caesar and your brother were at blows,
When I am buried. Since Frenchmen are so braid,
When I did love you ill? This has no holding,
When I forget to send to Antony
When I have envied thy behaviour.
When I have found it. The Count he woos your daughter
When I shall pray 'O, bless my lord and husband!'
When I should take possession of the bride,
When I was green in judgment, cold in blood,
When at Philippi he found Brutus slain.
When back again this ring shall be deliver'd.
When better fall, for your avails they fell.
When briers shall have leaves as well as thorns
When half to half the world oppos'd, he being
When haply he shall hear that she is gone
When he hath mus'd of taking kingdoms in,
When he shines by. I say again, thy spirit
When his wife's dead; therefore I'll lie with him
When it is all to nought, and his quails ever
When it was out-'Let me not live' quoth he
When judges have been babes. Great floods have flown
When men revolted shall upon record
When miracles have by the greatest been denied.
When most impeached, stands least in thy control.
When my good stars, that were my former guides,
When oil and fire, too strong for reason's force,
When one so great begins to rage, he's hunted
When our most learned doctors leave us, and
When our quick minds lie still, and our ills told us
When rather from our acts we them derive
When rioting in Alexandria; you
When saucy trusting of the cozen'd thoughts
When shrill-tongu'd Fulvia scolds. The messengers!
When the best hint was given him, he not took't,
When thou wast here above the ground, I was
When vantage like a pair of twins appear'd,
When you are dead, you should be such a one
When you have conquer'd my yet maiden bed,
When you have well deserv'd ten times as much
When you sally upon him, speak what terrible language you will;
When your sweet self was got.
Whence honour but of danger wins a scar,
Where Caesar fought with Pompey. But these offers,
Where Caesar's is not; but near him thy angel
Where Cupid got new fire; my mistress' eyes.
Where I will write. All may be well enough.
Where be the sacred vials thou shouldst fill
Where both not sin, and yet a sinful fact.
Where death and danger dogs the heels of worth.
Where death is sure. Yon ribaudred nag of Egypt-
Where do the palmers lodge, I do beseech you?
Where dust and damn'd oblivion is the tomb
Where great additions swell's, and virtue none,
Where hast thou been, my heart? Dost thou hear, lady?
Where hope is coldest, and despair most fits.
Where is he now?
Where love's strong passion is impress'd in youth.
Where most it promises; and oft it hits
Where most she satisfies; for vilest things
Where noble fellows strike. War is no strife
Where now half tales be truths. Her love to both
Where rather I'll expect victorious life
Where she yet never was.                       Exit, guarded
Where souls do couch on flowers, we'll hand in hand,
Where the impression of mine eye infixing,
Where their appointment we may best discover
Where think'st thou he is now? Stands he or sits he?
Where you have never come- or sent it us
Where you shall host. Of enjoin'd penitents
Where's Fulvia's process? Caesar's I would say? Both?
Wherefore my father should revengers want,
Wherein the worship of the whole world lies.
Wherein toward me my homely stars have fail'd
Whereof the world takes note. Come, come, disclose
Whether I have been to blame or no, I know not:
Whether I live or die, be you the sons
Which I do owe you.
Which I have sometime known.
Which I presume shall render you no blame,
Which I will over-pay and pay again
Which I would fain shut out. If it should prove
Which beasts would cough at. Thy palate then did deign
Which both thy duty owes and our power claims;
Which break themselves in swearing!
Which but attends thy naming.
Which challenges itself as honour's born
Which comes to punish us, and we punish it,
Which die for goodness, who have lived for crime.
Which fronted mine own peace. As for my wife,
Which great Love grant; and so I take my leave.
Which had superfluous kings for messengers
Which has no need of you; be gone.
Which he achiev'd by th' minute, lost his favour.
Which holds him much to have.
Which holds not colour with the time, nor does
Which if thou hast considered, let us know
Which in the scuffles of great fights hath burst
Which lay nice manners by, I put you to
Which leaves itself. To the sea-side straight way.
Which might be felt; that we, the poorer born,
Which might have well becom'd the best of men
Which my despair proclaims. Let that be left
Which never shall be found- you did suspect
Which promises royal peril. Trumpeters,
Which seem'd to tell them his remembrance lay
Which serve not for his vantage, he shakes off;
Which she entreated. Our courteous Antony,
Which should sustain the bound and high curvet
Which some did die to look on. And all this-
Which still should go with Antony.
Which they distil now in the curbed time,
Which thus she hath prevented.
Which to the tune of flutes kept stroke, and made
Which warp'd the line of every other favour,
Which we ascribe to heaven. The fated sky
Which were the greatest obloquy i' th' world
Which were the greatest obloquy i' th' world
Which will become you both, farewell.
Which you will wonder at.
Which, as I take't, we shall; for his best force
Which, as the dearest issue of his practice,
Which, as your due, time claims, he does acknowledge;
Which, being dried with grief, will break to powder,
Which, followed well, would demonstrate them now
Which, like the courser's hair, hath yet but life
Which, on your just proceeding, I'll keep off-
Which, whilst it was mine, had annex'd unto't
While I was speaking, oft was fasten'd to't.
While shameful hate sleeps out the afternoon.
Whilst I can shake my sword or hear the drum.
Whilst yet with Parthian blood thy sword is warm
Whilst you abide here.
Whilst-
Whip him. Were't twenty of the greatest tributaries
Whistling to th' air; which, but for vacancy,
Whither I am going.
Whither straight I'll lead you.
Who art as black as hell, as dark as night.
Who at Philippi the good Brutus ghosted,
Who does i' th' wars more than his captain can
Who hath abus'd me as he knows himself,
Who hath, for four or five removes, come short
Who have been false to Fulvia? Riotous madness,
Who neigh'd so high that what I would have spoke
Who pays before, but not when he does owe it.
Who seeks, and will not take when once 'tis offer'd,
Who shuns thy love shuns all his love in me.
Who tells me true, though in his tale lie death,
Who then recovers. Say thou art mine, and ever
Whoever charges on his forward breast,
Whoever gave it you. Then, if you know
Whoever shoots at him, I set him there;
Whom I myself embrace to set him free.'
Whom everything becomes- to chide, to laugh,
Whom leprosy o'ertake!- i' th' midst o' th' fight,
Whom ne'er the word of 'No' woman heard speak,
Whom sometime I have laugh'd with. Let your Highness
Whom these things cannot blemish- yet must Antony
Whose aged honour cites a virtuous youth,
Whose baser stars do shut us up in wishes,
Whose beauty did astonish the survey
Whose better issue in the war from Italy
Whose bosom was my crownet, my chief end-
Whose dear perfection hearts that scorn'd to serve
Whose eye beck'd forth my wars and call'd them home,
Whose fortunes shall rise higher, Caesar's or mine?
Whose great decision hath much blood let forth
Whose he is we are, and that is Caesar's.
Whose heart I thought I had, for she had mine,
Whose high respect and rich validity
Whose love is never link'd to the deserver
Whose nature sickens but to speak a truth.
Whose virtue and whose general graces speak
Whose want, and whose delay, is strew'd with sweets,
Why did he marry Fulvia, and not love her?
Why do you send so thick?
Why not a mother? When I said 'a mother,'
Why then, good night indeed.
Why, that you are my daughter?
Will answer as a law.
Will be himself.
Will e'en but kiss Octavia, and we'll follow.
Will fight with him by sea.
Will give thee all the world.
Will leap to be his friend. For us, you know
Will not confess he owes the malady
Will not sustain it.
Will yield us up.
Will you be mine now you are doubly won?
Will you draw near?            Exeunt COUNTESS and GENTLEMEN
Will you go see her?
Will you lead, lords?
Wilt thou not answer, man?                     Exit DERCETAS
Wisdom and fortune combating together,
Wisdom, and constancy, hath amaz'd me more
Wish chastely and love dearly that your Dian
Wishers were ever fools. O come, come,
With all bound humbleness.
With all the spots o' th' world tax'd and debauch'd,
With all their sixty, fly and turn the rudder.
With an augmented greeting.
With an importing visage; and she told me
With an unslipping knot, take Antony
With any branch or image of thy state;
With brazen din blast you the city's ear;
With caution, that the Florentine will move us
With clouts about their heads.
With divers-colour'd fans, whose wind did seem
With fervency drew up.
With half the bulk o' th' world play'd as I pleas'd,
With her prepared nails.                      Exit CLEOPATRA
With his inducement.
With his tinct gilded thee.
With keels of every kind. Many hot inroads
With knaves that smell of sweat. Say this becomes him-
With looking on his life.
With most delicious poison. Think on me,
With musics of all sorts, and songs compos'd
With one that in her sex, her years, profession,
With one that ties his points?
With principalities.
With sainted vow my faults to have amended.
With several applications. Nature and sickness
With sharp constraint of hunger; better 'twere
With ships made cities, condemn myself to lack
With sorrowful water? Now I see, I see,
With spritely fire and motion; whose simple touch
With strife to please you, day exceeding day.
With such full licence as both truth and malice
With that malignant cause wherein the honour
With the arm'd rest, courtiers of beauteous freedom,
With the green sickness.
With thine entirely.
With trees upon't that nod unto the world
With true observance seek to eke out that
With very ignorance; we have kiss'd away
With vilest torture let my life be ended.
With what is spoke already.
With what it loathes, for that which is away.
Within ten year it will make itself ten, which is a goodly
Within there, and our viands! Fortune knows
Without all terms of pity. Speak; thine answer.
Without some pleasure now. What sport to-night?
Without the which a soldier and his sword
Work without it. Truth is, that Fulvia,
Worth name of life in thee hath estimate:
Worthy the note.
Would each to other, and all loves to both,
Would in so just a business shut his bosom
Would not be purg'd, she sent you word she was dead;
Would quite confound distinction, yet stand off
Would she had never given you leave to come!
Would stand and make his eyes grow in my brow;
Would then be nothing. Truths would be tales,
Would we had spoke together! Haste we for it.
Wouldst thou be window'd in great Rome and see
Wrapp'd in a paper, which contain'd the name
Write, write, that from the bloody course of war
Written to bear along.
Y'are great in fortune.
Yea, like the stag when snow the pasture sheets,
Yet I express to you a mother's care.
Yet cannot hold this visible shape, my knave.
Yet do not so, but since I am near slain,
Yet have I fierce affections, and think
Yet in this captious and intenible sieve
Yet never know how that desert should be.
Yet so they mourn becoming of their woe,
Yet these fix'd evils sit so fit in him
Yet this shall I ne'er know but live in doubt,
Yet who would have suspected an ambush where I was taken?
Yet you desire to marry.
Yet, coming from him, that great med'cine hath
Yet, ere we put ourselves in arms, dispatch we
Yet, for our gentlemen that mean to see
Yet, if thou say Antony lives, is well,
You are no maiden, but a monument;
You barely leave our thorns to prick ourselves,
You do not hold the method to enforce
You give away heaven's vows, and those are mine;
You give away myself, which is known mine;
You give away this hand, and that is mine;
You got it from her. She call'd the saints to surety
You have been nobly borne.- From me awhile.        Exit EROS
You have my father's house- but what? We are friends.
You know my father left me some prescriptions
You know not what it is.
You love my son; invention is asham'd,
You may pace easy, but not such a wife.
You may so in the end.
You must not marvel, Helen, at my course,
You must not stay here longer; your dismission
You must to Parthia. Your commission's ready;
You ne'er oppress'd me with a mother's groan,
You never had a servant to whose trust
You patch'd up your excuses.
You saw one here in court could witness it.
You see we have burnt our cheeks. Strong Enobarb
You shall have time to wrangle in when you have nothing else to
You shall hear from me still; the time shall not
You take me in too dolorous a sense;
You that have turn'd off a first so noble wife
You wager'd on your angling; when your diver
You were half blasted ere I knew you. Ha!
You would have followed.
You'll serve another master. I look on you
You'll win two days upon me.
Young Bertram.
Your Highness with herself.
Your business was more welcome.
Your comfort makes the rescue.
Your generals after.
Your gentle hands lend us, and take our hearts.
Your heart has mind to.                               Exeunt
Your letters did withhold our breaking forth,
Your mariners are muleteers, reapers, people
Your mother came to Sicily and did find
Your own renowned knowledge; quite forgo
Your partner in the cause 'gainst which he fought,
Your reconciler! Wars 'twixt you twain would be
Your salt tears' head. Now to all sense 'tis gross
Your wife Octavia, with her modest eyes
Yourself shall go between's. The meantime, lady,
Youth, beauty, wisdom, courage, all
[Aside]  One that goes with him. I love him for his sake;
[Drums afar off ] Hark! the drums
[Reads]  'When thou canst get the ring upon my finger, which
[To DIANA]  If thou beest yet a fresh uncropped flower,
[To SCARUS] Give me thy hand-
[To THYREUS] To try thy eloquence, now 'tis time. Dispatch;
a deadly sorrow to behold a foul knave uncuckolded. Therefore,
a good wing, and I like the wear well.
a metaphor.
a musk-cat, that has fall'n into the unclean fishpond of her
a patent for his sauciness; and indeed he has no pace, but runs
a scruple.
a solemn leave. His lordship will next morning for France. The
a very coward I'd compel it of you; but fare you well.
a wench that had shed her milk; he hath confess'd himself to
above is my master.
abundance.
accomplish'd; and, there residing, the tenderness of her nature
admitted.
advanc'd by the King than by that red-tail'd humble-bee I speak
advantage in the process but only the losing of hope by time.
adversary's entertainment. Now he hath a smack of all
advertisement to a proper maid in Florence, one Diana, to take
again into his native quarter, be magnanimous in the enterprise,
again, rather than suffer question for your residence.
again.
against any man's metaphor. Prithee, get thee further.
against him?
against his own nobility, in his proper stream, o'erflows
against his valour; and my state that way is dangerous, since I
age will give me leave.                                 Exit
all demands.
all the sight.
all treasons we still see them reveal themselves till they attain
almanacs can report. This cannot be cunning in her; if it be, she
almost into another man.
am for the house with the narrow gate, which I take to be too
and I begin to love, as an old man loves money, with no stomach.
and I follow him to his country for justice. Grant it me, O King!
and accordingly valiant.
and blood are; and, indeed, I do marry that I may repent.
and dares better be damn'd than to do 't.
and disgraces have of late knock'd to often at my door. I find my
and doughy youth of a nation in his colour. Your daughter-in-law
and go on; I will grace the attempt for a worthy exploit. If you
and my young lady.
and our Isbels o' th' country are nothing like your old ling and
and ravishments he parallels Nessus. He professes not keeping of
and that with his own hand he slew the Duke's brother.  [Tucket]
and the case to be lamented. This grief is crown'd with
and the master I speak of ever keeps a good fire. But, sure, he
and the tedious of it; and he's of a most facinerious spirit that
and thinks himself made in the unchaste composition.
anon.                                           Exit STEWARD
answer to what I shall ask you out of a note.
any question.
anything with it?
apparel neatly.
are you a courtier?
as a partizan I could not heave.
as the nail to his hole, the cuckold to his horn, as a scolding
aside.
aside] The matter?
at my house: thither they send one another. I'll question her.
attempt I vow.
away; know it before the report come. If there be breadth enough
be conceal'd awhile.
be recovered.
beat thee. I think thou wast created for men to breathe
beaten, thou shalt find what it is to be proud of thy bondage. I
became as a prey to her grief; in fine, made a groan of her last
before it, and of his creatures, not daring the reports of my
better of you than you have or will to deserve at my hand; but we
blood loves my flesh and blood; he that loves my flesh and blood
blow the fire up in Caesar, and, as I said before, that which is
boy, but for all that very ruttish. I pray you, sir, put it up
brains are forfeit to the next tile that falls.
breath, and now she sings in heaven.
breeding.
buried in highways, out of all sanctified limit, as a desperate
business in a main danger fail you.
business is but to the court.
business, which he knows is not to be done; damns himself to do,
but I must attend his Majesty's command, to whom I am now in
but bound to't.
but little more to say, sir, of his honesty. He has everything
but one that lies three-thirds and uses a known truth to pass a
but that he is carried into the leaguer of the adversaries when
but that, my offences being many, I would repent out the
buttock, the quatch buttock, the brawn buttock, or any buttock.
by being once lost may be ten times found; by being ever kept, it
camp?
cannot be denied what I have done by land.
cannot bring thee.
cannot scratch mine ear. Prithee, tell her but worky-day fortune.
cannot yet find in my heart to repent. Here he comes; I pray you
canon. Keep it not; you cannot choose but lose by't. Out with't.
cap, kiss his hand, and say nothing, has neither leg, hands, lip,
cat to me.
cause they should be esteemed nothing. Cleopatra, catching but
causeless. Hence is it that we make trifles of terrors,
celerity in dying.
chape of his dagger.
charge his horns with garlands!
cheek of two pile and a half, but his right cheek is worn bare.
cheese; consumes itself to the very paring, and so dies with
cherisher of my flesh and blood; he that cherishes my flesh and
child at fifty, to whom Herod of Jewry may do homage. Find me to
clap upon you two or three probable lies. But we have almost
clean; nor believe he can have everything in him by wearing his
comes not along with her.
commission of your birth and virtue gives you heraldry. You are
company anatomiz'd, that he might take a measure of his own
company, Chitopher, Vaumond, Bentii, two hundred fifty each; so
complaints I have heard of you I do not all believe; 'tis my
composition that your valour and fear makes in you is a virtue of
condition, and what credit I have with the Duke.
consolation: your old smock brings forth a new petticoat; and
convoy; and between these main parcels of dispatch effected many
coranto.
could be contented to be what they are, there were no fear in
counsel, and understand what advice shall thrust upon thee; else
cries out 'No more!'; reconciles them to his entreaty and himself
cuckold, he's my drudge. He that comforts my wife is the
danger is in standing to 't; that's the loss of men, though it be
dare not give. Wherefore, what's the instance? Tongue, I must put
daughter of Gerard de Narbon?
dear Isis, keep decorum, and fortune him accordingly!
deceiv'd by him that in such intelligence hath seldom fail'd.
deceiv'd me like a double-meaning prophesier.
defence, yet is weak. Unfold to us some warlike resistance.
deliver all the intelligence in his power against you, and that
deliver'd in the most bitter touch of sorrow that e'er I heard
did as you say.
difference betwixt their two estates; Love no god, that would not
digested. You stay'd well by't in Egypt.
dilated farewell.
disaster the cheeks.
discretion.
displeasure, and, as he says, is muddied withal. Pray you, sir,
displeasure.
displeasure.
disposition.
dissuade me from believing thee a vessel of too great a burden. I
dissuade succession, but that they are limed with the twigs that
do.
doubling of files-I would do the man what honour I can-but of
down my dilemmas, encourage myself in my certainty, put myself
down.
drunk to bed.
dumb innocent that could not say him nay.
easily put it off at court. He that cannot make a leg, put off's
effected.
emboss'd him. You shall see his fall to-night; for indeed he is
enough to go home. What shall I say I have done? It must be a
ensconcing ourselves into seeming knowledge when we should submit
entertainment, your inclining cannot be removed. Here he comes.
entrench'd it. Say to him I live; and observe his reports for me.
epicure.
escape a great deal of discoveries; but when you find him out,
eternal; for doing I am past, as I will by thee, in what motion
excellent command: to charge in with our horse upon our own
excels his brother for a coward; yet his brother is reputed one
expressive to them; for they wear themselves in the cap of the
extend his might only where qualities were level; Diana no queen
face; if your lordship be in't, as I believe you are, you must
fain to hang you.
fairer; for where an unclean mind carries virtuous qualities,
faithfully confirm'd by the rector of the place.
familiarity with fresher clothes; but I am now, sir, muddied in
fashion, richly suited but unsuitable; just like the brooch and
father.                             Exeunt BERTRAM and LAFEU
father. He that so generally is at all times good must of
feeding his own stomach. Besides, virginity is peevish, proud,
fellow, my lord, that so confidently seems to undertake this
fellow; thou didst make tolerable vent of thy travel; it might
fellowship. I had as lief have a reed that will do me no service
finest part of pure love. We cannot call her winds and waters
first propose. His Highness hath promis'd me to do it; and, to
flesh; and he must needs go that the devil drives.
flow'ry way that leads to the broad gate and the great fire.
for France.
for I look through thee. Give me thy hand.
forefinger, as a pancake for Shrove Tuesday, a morris for Mayday,
forehead.
formerly better; marry, yet 'tis a wither'd pear. Will you
fortune, his fortune! O, let him marry a woman that cannot go,
fortunes.
friend, Agrippa!
friends.  [Unmuffling him]  So look about you; know you any here?
from me.
gabble enough, and good enough. As for you, interpreter, you must
gentleman his companion.
gentleman; tricks he hath had in him, which gentlemen have.
glory of the action; and not resting here, accuses him of letters
gold.'
grass.
great right to be so- Gerard de Narbon.
grief the enemy to the living.
guilty of.
had been alive at this hour, and your son here at home, more
hand. How does your drum?
has a knot on 't yet.
hath breadth; it is just so high as it is, and moves with it own
have a desire to hold my acquaintance with thee, or rather my
have been a great thief by sea.
have ere now, sir, been better known to you, when I have held
have he has nothing.
have now found thee; when I lose thee again I care not; yet art
have prevented, if he had been there to command.
have the patience to hear it.
have them still. O, my knave, how does my old lady?
he had formerly wrote to Pompey; upon his own appeal, seizes him.
he is parted, tell me what a sprat you shall find him; which you
he is?
heads are both one; they may jowl horns together like any deer
health for you.
heed of the allurement of one Count Rousillon, a foolish idle
her honesty, and achieves her goodness.
her marriage, and things which would derive me ill will to speak
her, and talk'd of Satan, and of Limbo, and of Furies, and I know
her.
her; and sworn to make the "not" eternal. You shall hear I am run
her; writ to my lady mother I am returning; entertain'd my
hereafter. But shall we have this dialogue between the Fool and
herself, without other advantage, may lawfully make title to as
higher, or return again into France?
him laughing to his grave, fiftyfold a cuckold! Good Isis, hear
him shall at home be encount'red with a shame as ample.
him. But to answer you as you would be understood: he weeps like
him. I will tell you a thing, but you shall let it dwell darkly
him; but they know his conditions and lay him in straw. I have
him; such I will have whom I am sure he knows not from the enemy.
himself is a virgin; virginity murders itself, and should be
himself.
his design; let him fetch off his drum in any hand.
his examination; if he do not, for the promise of his life and in
his heart was not consenting to.
his own fancy; not to know what we speak one to another, so we
his reputation with the Duke, and to his valour; what is his
honesty.
honesty; had it stretch'd so far, would have made nature
honesty?
honour of a maid is her name, and no legacy is so rich as
honour's paid to him. He stole from Florence, taking no leave,
honour; so belike is that.
hope your own grace will keep you where you are, though there
hotter in France than there.
hours in a sleep, and then to return and swear the lies he forges.
house. Her pretence is a pilgrimage to Saint Jaques le Grand;
hundred of them.
husband and use him as he uses thee. So, farewell.
i' th' herd.
idle, made of self-love, which is the most inhibited sin in the
if I am a courtier: it shall do you no harm to learn.
if thou be'st not an ass, I am a youth of fourteen; I have known
ill-rooted already; the least wind i' th' world will blow them
immortal, and death should have play for lack of work. Would, for
in coming on he has the cramp.
in death, which commits some loving act upon her, she hath such a
in his sleep he does little harm, save to his bedclothes about
in my similes of comfort, and leave him to your lordship.
in the world, I will hold a long distance. My duty to you.
in wars; or whether he thinks it were not possible, with
in you it best lies; otherwise a seducer flourishes, and a poor
in you, even to the world's pleasure and the increase of
in your respect.
in't that stings his nature; for on the reading it he chang'd
increase; and the principal itself not much the worse. Away
increase; and there was never virgin got till virginity was first
indeed the tears live in an onion that should water this sorrow.
influence of the most receiv'd star; and though the devil lead
ingenious, foolish, rascally knave. I do pity his distress
inter'gatories. Demand them singly.
into my mortal preparation; and by midnight look to hear further
is ever lost. 'Tis too cold a companion; away with't.
is my friend; ergo, he that kisses my wife is my friend. If men
is no fettering of authority. I'll beat him, by my life, if I can
is no fitter matter. How does your ladyship like it?
is the prince of the world; let his nobility remain in's court. I
is upon a file with the Duke's other letters in my tent.
it is a heartbreaking to see a handsome man loose-wiv'd, so it is
itself, which could not be her office to say is come, was
judgment in anything.
judgments, wherein so curiously he had set this counterfeit.
kernal in this light nut; the soul of this man is his clothes;
knew of their going to bed; and of other motions, as promising
know by his trumpets. Sirrah, inquire further after me; I had
knowing I had no such purpose? I must give myself some hurts, and
knowledge, that I may say in the default 'He is a man I know.'
knows; but 'tis a goodly patch of velvet. His left cheek is a
lascivious boy, who is a whale to virginity, and devours up all
laughter.
length apiece; by an abstract of success: I have congied with the
let my horses be well look'd to, without any tricks.
let thy curtsies alone, they are scurvy ones.
life.
like him that leapt into the custard; and out of it you'll run
linguist, and the amnipotent soldier.
little for pomp to enter. Some that humble themselves may; but
liv'd still, if knowledge could be set up against mortality.
looks ill, it eats drily; marry, 'tis a wither'd pear; it was
lord. I'll have no more pity of his age than I would have of-
lordship anon.
lordship's entertainment.
losses!
lost. That you were made of is metal to make virgins. Virginity
lustrous, a word, good metals: you shall find in the regiment of
maid hath been seduced by them; and the misery is, example, that
maid is undone.
make us friends; I will pursue the amity
makes a show'r of rain as well as Jove.
makes her story true even to the point of her death. Her death
man that had this trick of melancholy sold a goodly manor for a
man.
marriage; for young Charbon the puritan and old Poysam the
married but his occasion here.
married; but thou art too fine in thy evidence; therefore stand
marry me with Octavius Caesar, and companion me with my mistress.
marvellous poor.
may draw his heart out ere 'a pluck one.
may know by their trumpets.
me this prayer, though thou deny me a matter of more weight; good
me, he's more and more a cat.
me? The search, sir, was profitable; and much fool may you find
meet him with any convenience, an he were double and double a
merry, but yet she is not well. But thanks be given, she's very
might be found in the calendar of my past endeavours; for then we
mine; and writ to me this other day to turn him out o' th' band.
misdoubt. Pray you leave me. Stall this in your bosom; and I
mistress, and make much of her.
monstrous matter of feast, which worthily deserved noting.
more of this, Helena; go to, no more, lest it be rather thought
more shall be paid her than she'll demand.
more than they can commend.
most absolute Alexas, where's the soothsayer that you prais'd so
most courteous feathers, which bow the head and nod at every man.
most notable coward, an infinite and endless liar, an hourly
mother. I could not have owed her a more rooted love.
mothers; which is most infallible disobedience. He that hangs
mouth; nay, as the pudding to his skin.
much love as she finds. There is more owing her than is paid; and
must do good against evil.                              Exit
must produce for an interpreter.
my body; for they say bames are blessings.
my daughter; you are no husband for her.
my wife's sake.
nails now. Wherein have you played the knave with Fortune, that
nation. Fare ye well, sir; I am for France too; we shall speak of
necessity hold his virtue to you, whose worthiness would stir it
neighbouring languages, therefore we must every one be a man of
never shall come off, and show me a child begotten of thy body
nicer needs. The last was the greatest, but that I have not ended
no fault with the tithe-woman, if I were the parson. One in ten,
nor cap; and indeed such a fellow, to say precisely, were not for
not for your lordship's respect.
not have knaves thrive long under her? There's a cardecue for
not me'? Indeed your 'O Lord, sir!' is very sequent to your
not seem to understand him, unless some one among us, whom we
not what. Yet I was in that credit with them at that time that I
not worth another word, else I'd call you knave. I leave you.
not yet.
not; and our crimes would despair if they were not cherish'd by
nothing, and to have nothing, is to be a great part of your
o' th' contrary. If ever thou be'st bound in thy scarf and
oaths; in breaking 'em he is stronger than Hercules. He will lie,
of Fortune's butt'ring. Prithee, allow the wind.
of a most chaste renown; and this night he fleshes his will in
of him admiringly and mourningly; he was skilful enough to have
of his act.
of his counsel.
of his success in't, and to what metal this counterfeit lump of
of it.
of nature to preserve virginity. Loss of virginity is rational
of nature. To speak on the part of virginity is to accuse your
of request. Virginity, like an old courtier, wears her cap out of
of the King, who had even tun'd his bounty to sing happiness to
of the best that is. In a retreat he outruns any lackey: marry,
of the maid; for I knew the young Count to be a dangerous and
of this drum, being not ignorant of the impossibility, and
of virgins, that would suffer her poor knight surpris'd without
of.
of; therefore I will not speak what I know.
offendress against nature. Virginity breeds mites, much like a
office of God and the devil? One brings the in grace, and the
officer at a place there called Mile-end to instruct for the
officer he is in those suggestions for the young earl. Beware of
old.
on your abode.
on's face; whether there be a scar under 't or no, the velvet
once out of it, it transmigrates.
operation of your sun; so is your crocodile.
or the breaking of my Spanish sword.
ore will be melted, if you give him not John Drum's
organs. It lives by that which nourisheth it, and the elements
other brings thee out.    [Trumpets sound]  The King's coming; I
other business.
our virtues.
ourselves to an unknown fear.
out his master's undoing. To say nothing, to do nothing, to know
out in our latter times.
out of a pomegranate; you are a vagabond, and no true traveller;
out of him. By his authority he remains here, which he thinks is
overlooking. I have those hopes of her good that her education
papist, howsome'er their hearts are sever'd in religion, their
part, I only hear your son was run away.                Exit
pass. Yet the scarfs and the bannerets about thee did manifoldly
persons to make modern and familiar things supernatural and
pie and your porridge than in your cheek. And your virginity,
pieces.
pinch me like a pasty, I can say no more.
pleaseth their deities to take the wife of a man from him, it
pleasure.
pleasure.
point, to the full arming of the verity.
practices he hath persecuted time with hope, and finds no other
presence must be the whip of the other.
presently denied him rivality, would not let him partake in the
prince as you are.
promise-breaker, the owner of no one good quality worthy your
promises; her dispositions she inherits, which makes fair gifts
prophesy so.
put off that with such contempt? But to the court!
quean to a wrangling knave, as the nun's lip to the friar's
question, hoping to be the wiser by your answer. I pray you, sir,
question. Man is enemy to virginity; how may we barricado it
questions?
quoth 'a! An we might have a good woman born before every blazing
rather, the herb of grace.
read it in what-do-ye-call't here.
recover'd it.
recovered the King and undone me. I have wedded her, not bedded
redeems him.
remainder of nature. Let me live, sir, in a dungeon, i' th'
remainders and a perpetual succession for it perpetually.
remembrance to this very instant disaster of his setting i' th'
report of it. Well, Diana, take heed of this French earl; the
reputation is with the Duke, what his valour, honesty, expertness
rescue in the first assault, or ransom afterward. This she
reservation of your wrongs. He is my good lord: whom I serve
respect-
restrain'd yourself within the list of too cold an adieu. Be more
rogues, upon my reputation and credit, and as I hope to live.
sad a passage 'tis!-whose skill was almost as great as his
said; but more than that, he loved her-for indeed he was mad for
sallets ere we light on such another herb.
salvation, the inheritance of it; and cut th' entail from all
say I got them in exploit. Yet slight ones will not carry it.
says he has a stratagem for't. When your lordship sees the bottom
scurvy, old, filthy, scurvy lord! Well, I must be patient; there
secrets of your army, and made such pestiferous reports of men
seem to know, is to know straight our purpose: choughs' language,
seem very politic. But couch, ho! here he comes; to beguile two
seldom attributed to the true and exact performer, I would have
servants so? Thou wert best set thy lower part where thy nose
servants to you!  [To HELENA]  Be comfortable to my mother, your
serve to naturalize thee, so thou wilt be capable of a courtier's
service; it was a disaster of war that Caesar himself could not
seventeen poniards are at thy bosom.
shall eat. Go to; follow.
shall see this very night.
she had partaken of my flesh, and cost me the dearest groans of a
she should scratch you, who of herself is a good lady and would
shows to man the tailors of the earth; comforting therein that
sighs and tears; they are greater storms and tempests than
sing; ask questions and sing; pick his teeth and sing. I know a
sir, with such volubility that you would think truth were a fool.
slowness that I do not, for I know you lack not folly to commit
snow from off their cassocks lest they shake themselves to
so before, because I would not fall out with thee. Go thy ways;
so good a wife and so sweet a lady.
so seriously he does address himself unto?
so strongly as thou speak'st of. I will henceforth eat no fish
so terrible shows in the wreck of maidenhood, cannot for all that
something to know it.
son will not be kill'd so soon as I thought he would.
son. Fortune, she said, was no goddess, that had put such
song.
song. Would God would serve the world so all the year! We'd find
soon mortal.
spares my team, and gives me leave to in the crop. If I be his
speak in the behalf of my daughter; which, in the minority of
speak truth of it. Here it is, and all that belongs to't. Ask me
speed well in it, the Duke shall both speak of it and extend to
spurs so long. How does he carry himself?
stands. By mine honour, if I were but two hours younger, I'd beat
star, or at an earthquake, 'twould mend the lottery well: a man
stocks all night, poor gallant knave.
stocks, or anywhere, so I may live.
stocks. And what think you he hath confess'd?
stop up the displeasure he hath conceived against your son, there
stratagem.
strong.' What say you to that?
succeeding. My master!
sweet Isis, I beseech thee! And let her die too, and give him a
syllable of our worthiness.
talk of you last night. Though you are a fool and a knave, you
tame, and know their natures. Farewell, monsieur; I have spoken
tears! The great dignity that his valour hath here acquir'd for
than the love of the parties.
thank thee. Wait on me home, I'll make sport with thee;
thank you for your honest care. I will speak with you further
that I am father to, then call me husband; but in such a "then" I
that an honest man should not have; what an honest man should
that drum or another, or 'hic jacet.'
that had received so much shame, you might begin an impudent
that he will steal himself into a man's favour, and for a week
that lascivious young boy the Count, have I run into this danger.
that the muster-file, rotten and sound, upon my life, amounts not
that's 'Before me th'art a knave.' This had been truth, sir.
the Florentine?
the King's disease.
the King's sake, he were living! I think it would be the death of
the Soldier? Come, bring forth this counterfeit module has
the Spinii one Captain Spurio, with his cicatrice, an emblem of
the court; but for me, I have an answer will serve all men.
the devil.
the first in goodness, but greater a great deal in evil. He
the fry it finds.
the gallant militarist-that was his own phrase-that had the whole
the getting of children. Here they come will tell you more. For my
the highest compulsion of base fear, offer to betray you and
the least noise of this, dies instantly; I have seen her die
the less worth. Off with't while 'tis vendible; answer the time
the many will be too chill and tender: and they'll be for the
the measure, such are to be followed. After them, and take a more
the night light with drinking.
the recov'ry of the King, as to be-
the rich are damn'd; but if I may have your ladyship's good will
the spoil of her honour. He hath given her his monumental ring,
the strength of their amity shall prove the immediate author of
the toothpick, which wear not now. Your date is better in your
thee already.
thee away. Farewell. When thou hast leisure, say thy prayers;
thee from thy master thou talk'st of; serve him still.
thee. Methink'st thou art a general offence, and every man should
their amity: Octavia is of a holy, cold, and still conversation.
their variance. Antony will use his affection where it is; he
them and have ability enough to make such knaveries yours.
them both, his Majesty out of a self-gracious remembrance did
them whipt; or I would send them to th' Turk to make eunuchs of.
them, Diana: their promises, enticements, oaths, tokens, and all
themselves upon thee.
then.
theoric of war in the knot of his scarf, and the practice in the
there commendations go with pity-they are virtues and traitors
there were no more women but Fulvia, then had you indeed a cut,
there, whose villainous saffron would have made all the unbak'd
thereabouts' set down, for I'll speak truth.
therefore, once more to this Captain Dumain: you have answer'd to
these engines of lust, are not the things they go under; many a
thieves kissing.
thing's may serve long, but not serve ever.
think I shall never have the blessing of God till I have issue o'
think of thee at court.
this I am not certain.
thou diest in thine unthankfulness, and thine ignorance makes
thou good for nothing but taking up; and that thou'rt scarce
though you understand it not yourselves, no matter; for we must
thousand nothings with, should be once heard and thrice beaten.
threatens them. I hope I need not to advise you further; but I
three kings in a forenoon, and widow them all. Let me have a
thy arms o' this fashion? Dost make hose of thy sleeves? Do other
time; there do muster true gait; eat, speak, and move, under the
title, which is within a very little of nothing.
to ask you if gold will corrupt him to revolt.
to cast them away for nothing, though between them and a great
to do that for me which I am aweary of. He that ears my land
to fifteen thousand poll; half of the which dare not shake the
to give to a nobleman! Look here he comes himself.
to go to the world, Isbel the woman and I will do as we may.
to move in't, are the holes where eyes should be, which pitifully
to th' Queen? O that I knew this husband, which you say must
to th' drink.
to their abhorr'd ends; so he that in this action contrives
to tie their friendship together will be the very strangler of
together. Our virtues would be proud if our faults whipt them
tongue is too foolhardy; but my heart hath the fear of Mars
tongue.
tongue. Kerely-bonto, sir, betake thee to thy faith, for
too. In her they are the better for their simpleness; she derives
tott'ring in the balance that I could neither believe nor
touch'd not any stranger sense. Her matter was, she loved your
tragedians-to belie him I will not-and more of his soldier-ship
treaty.- You and I have known, sir.
trial; which if-Lord have mercy on thee for a hen! So, my good
tricks, which are their own right by the law of nature.
trust him not in matter of heavy consequence; I have kept of them
twelve persons there. Is this true?
twenty times upon far poorer moment. I do think there is mettle
tyranny of her sorrows takes all livelihood from her cheek. No
under Mars.
undermine you and blow you up.
unkindness is to them; if they suffer our departure, death's the
unlawful intents? We shall not then have his company to-night?
up where it wanted, rather than lack it where there is such
up; marry, in blowing him down again, with the breach yourselves
upon the river of Cydnus.
use the carp as you may; for he looks like a poor, decayed,
very good tailor.
very goodly things. Without contradiction I have heard that.
very nobly held, can serve the world for no honest use; therefore
very plausive invention that carries it. They begin to smoke me;
virgin exclaim in; which I held my duty speedily to acquaint you
virgin.
virtue, which he hath not, he might at some great and trusty
virtuous gentlewoman that ever nature had praise for creating. If
war, here on his sinister cheek; it was this very sword
ward, evermore in subjection.
wars with the women!
we bring him to our own tents. Be but your lordship present at
wear the surplice of humility over the black gown of a big heart.
well, and wants nothing i' th' world; but yet she is not well.
well-weighing sums of gold, to corrupt him to a revolt.' What say
well?
were no further danger known but the modesty which is so lost.
what things are we!
when he number'd thirty; 'a will be here to-morrow, or I am
when his wife was dead, I blush to say it, he won me. Now is the
when of ourselves we publish them.
when old robes are worn out there are members to make new. If
when thou hast none, remember thy friends. Get thee a good
whence he was whipt for getting the shrieve's fool with child-a
where he will.
where would you choose it?
whether one Captain Dumain be i' th' camp, a Frenchman; what his
which holy undertaking with most austere sanctimony she
which should, indeed, give us a further use to be made than alone
whilst I have a tooth in my head. Why, he's able to lead her a
whipping. You would answer very well to a whipping, if you were
will not acknowledge it to be the-
will return perfect courtier; in the which my instruction shall
will subscribe for thee. Farewell.
will tell true. Let me see: Spurio, a hundred and fifty;
will to his Egyptian dish again; then shall the sighs of Octavia
will.
window of lattice, fare thee well; thy casement I need not open,
wings, and to rend our own soldiers!
wish'd me. Alone she was, and did communicate to herself her own
with the divine forfeit of his soul upon oath, never trust my
with you.
with't.
withal; sithence, in the loss that may happen, it concerns you
without any malice, but to speak of him as my kinsman, he's a
without you; especially that of Cleopatra's, which wholly depends
word.
word.
words to her own ears; she thought, I dare vow for her, they
work, which not to have been blest withal would have discredited
worse! And let worse follow worse, till the worst of all follow
worth.
would make themselves whores but they'ld do't!
wound our modesty, and make foul the clearness of our deservings,
write a "never."
yet hie you to Egypt again.
yet.
you affect a sorrow than to have-
you are more saucy with lords and honourable personages than the
you did bring me out.
you have him ever after.
you hear him so confidently undertake to do.
you into a butterwoman's mouth, and buy myself another of
you may, when you hear no more words of Pompey, return it again.
you must die. Come, headsman, of with his head.
you there.                                Exit with SOLDIERS
you to this? What do you know of it?
you what further becomes his greatness, even to the utmost
you writ to Diana in behalf of the Count Rousillon? An I were not
you, is he married to Cleopatra?
you, since I heard of the good lady's death, and that my lord
you. Let the justices make you and Fortune friends; I am for
you; you have a new mistress.
your Isbels o' th' court. The brains of my Cupid's knock'd out;
your departure hence, it requires haste of your lordship.
your lordship to remain with me tal they meet together.
your mystery in stratagem can bring this instrument of honour
your old virginity, is like one of our French wither'd pears: it
your son was upon his return home, I moved the King my master to
your travel.
Enter CAESAR, AGRIPPA, DOLABELLA, THYREUS, with others
'I hate' she altered with an end,
'Tis better to be vile than vile esteemed,
'Will', will fulfil the treasure of thy love,
A CLOWN
A PAGE, Servant to the Countess of Rousillon
A SOOTHSAYER
A WIDOW OF FLORENCE.
A bliss in proof and proved, a very woe,
A dateless lively heat still to endure,
A maid of Dian's this advantage found,
A thousand groans but thinking on thy face,
A torment thrice three-fold thus to be crossed:
AGRIPPA,       "    "   "
AGRIPPA. 'Tis a noble Lepidus.
AGRIPPA. Both he loves.
AGRIPPA. Caesar, I shall.                                 Exit
AGRIPPA. Give me leave, Caesar.
AGRIPPA. Good Enobarbus!
AGRIPPA. Good fortune, worthy soldier, and farewell.
AGRIPPA. Indeed, he plied them both with excellent praises.
AGRIPPA. Let us go.
AGRIPPA. Nay, but how dearly he adores Mark Antony!
AGRIPPA. O, Antony! O thou Arabian bird!
AGRIPPA. O, rare for Antony!
AGRIPPA. Rare Egyptian!
AGRIPPA. Retire. We have engag'd ourselves too far.
AGRIPPA. Royal wench!
AGRIPPA. Sir, Mark Antony
AGRIPPA. Sir, this should be answer'd.
AGRIPPA. There she appear'd indeed! Or my reporter devis'd well for
AGRIPPA. Thou hast a sister by the mother's side,
AGRIPPA. To hold you in perpetual amity,
AGRIPPA. Welcome, lady.
AGRIPPA. What's Antony? The god of Jupiter.
AGRIPPA. What, are the brothers parted?
AGRIPPA. Who does he accuse?
AGRIPPA. Who, queasy with his insolence
AGRIPPA. [Aside to ENOBARBUS] He has a cloud in's face.
AGRIPPA. [Aside to ENOBARBUS] Why, Enobarbus,
ALEXAS,   attendant on Cleopatra
ALEXAS. 'Good friend,' quoth he
ALEXAS. Ay, madam, twenty several messengers.
ALEXAS. Good Majesty,
ALEXAS. Half afeard to come.
ALEXAS. Here, at your service. My lord approaches.
ALEXAS. Last thing he did, dear Queen,
ALEXAS. Like to the time o' th' year between the extremes
ALEXAS. Lo now, if it lay in their hands to make me a cuckold, they
ALEXAS. Nay, hear him.
ALEXAS. Show him your hand.
ALEXAS. Soothsayer!
ALEXAS. Sovereign of Egypt, hail!
ALEXAS. Vex not his prescience; be attentive.
ALEXAS. We'll know all our fortunes.
ALEXAS. You think none but your sheets are privy to your wishes.
ALL. Alas, and woe!
ALL. Cargo, cargo, cargo, villianda par corbo, cargo.
ALL. Fly? Not we!
ALL. Good morrow, General.
ALL. Most heavy day!
ALL. Show's the way, sir.
ALL. That's our offer.
ALL. The music, ho!
ALL. We understand it, and thank heaven for you.
ANTONY. 'Tis said, man; and farewell.
ANTONY. 'Tis so. And the tears of it are wet.
ANTONY. 'Tis spoken well.
ANTONY. 'Tis well blown, lads.
ANTONY. A good rebuke,
ANTONY. Against my brother Lucius?
ANTONY. Ah, let be, let be! Thou art
ANTONY. Alack, our terrene moon
ANTONY. All is lost!
ANTONY. And fair words to them.
ANTONY. And shall, sir. Give's your hand.
ANTONY. And thou art honest too.
ANTONY. Antony, thou wouldst say.
ANTONY. Approach there.- Ah, you kite!- Now, gods and devils!
ANTONY. Art thou there, Diomed? Draw thy sword and give me
ANTONY. Ay, Lepidus.
ANTONY. Be a child o' th' time.
ANTONY. Bear him ashore. I'll pledge it for him, Pompey.
ANTONY. Bear me, good friends, where Cleopatra bides;
ANTONY. But stirr'd by Cleopatra.
ANTONY. But that your royalty
ANTONY. By sea, by sea.
ANTONY. Can he be there in person? 'Tis impossible-
ANTONY. Cleopatra-
ANTONY. Cold-hearted toward me?
ANTONY. Come, let's all take hands,
ANTONY. Come, sir, come;
ANTONY. Come, then; for with a wound I must be cur'd.
ANTONY. Cried he? and begg'd 'a pardon?
ANTONY. Dead then?
ANTONY. Dead.
ANTONY. Do so, we'll speak to them; and to-night I'll force
ANTONY. Egypt, thou knew'st too well
ANTONY. Eros! mine armour, Eros!
ANTONY. Eros,
ANTONY. Eros, thou yet behold'st me?
ANTONY. Fall not a tear, I say; one of them rates
ANTONY. Farewell!                       Trumpets sound. Exeunt
ANTONY. Favours, by Jove that thunders!
ANTONY. Fie, wrangling queen!
ANTONY. For that he dares us to't.
ANTONY. Forbear me.                             Exit MESSENGER
ANTONY. From Sicyon, ho, the news! Speak there!
ANTONY. Fulvia is dead.
ANTONY. Fulvia is dead.
ANTONY. Gentle Octavia,
ANTONY. Get thee gone.
ANTONY. Go, Eros, send his treasure after; do it;
ANTONY. Good night, sir. My Octavia,
ANTONY. Grates me the sum.
ANTONY. Hark! the land bids me tread no more upon't;
ANTONY. He has deserv'd it, were it carbuncled
ANTONY. He will not fight with me, Domitius?
ANTONY. Hear me, queen:
ANTONY. Hence, saucy eunuch; peace!
ANTONY. Her tongue will not obey her heart, nor can
ANTONY. Ho, ho, ho!
ANTONY. How intend you- practis'd?
ANTONY. How now, lady!
ANTONY. How, my love?
ANTONY. I am dying, Egypt, dying; only
ANTONY. I am not married, Caesar. Let me hear
ANTONY. I am satisfied.
ANTONY. I am sorry to give breathing to my purpose-
ANTONY. I did not think to draw my sword 'gainst Pompey;
ANTONY. I found you as a morsel cold upon
ANTONY. I have done my work ill, friends. O, make an end
ANTONY. I have fled myself, and have instructed cowards
ANTONY. I have heard it, Pompey,
ANTONY. I have offended reputation-
ANTONY. I learn you take things ill which are not so,
ANTONY. I must be gone.
ANTONY. I must with haste from hence.
ANTONY. I will be treble-sinew'd, hearted, breath'd,
ANTONY. I will reward thee
ANTONY. I would they'd fight i' th' fire or i' th' air;
ANTONY. I'll fight at sea.
ANTONY. I'll leave you, lady.
ANTONY. If that thy father live, let him repent
ANTONY. If we compose well here, to Parthia.
ANTONY. If you can- your reason.
ANTONY. Is he gone?
ANTONY. Is it not strange, Canidius,
ANTONY. Is that his answer?
ANTONY. It is shap'd, sir, like itself, and it is as broad as it
ANTONY. It ripens towards it. Strike the vessels, ho!
ANTONY. Let Rome in Tiber melt, and the wide arch
ANTONY. Let her know't.
ANTONY. Let him appear.
ANTONY. Let him that loves me, strike me dead.
ANTONY. Let us go. Come.
ANTONY. Let us, Lepidus,
ANTONY. Lo thee!                            [Turning from him]
ANTONY. Make me not offended
ANTONY. May I never
ANTONY. Mine nightingale,
ANTONY. Moon and stars!
ANTONY. Most sweet queen-
ANTONY. My being in Egypt, Caesar,
ANTONY. My good knave Eros, now thy captain is
ANTONY. My precious queen, forbear,
ANTONY. Nay, good my fellows, do not please sharp fate
ANTONY. Nay, nay, Octavia, not only that-
ANTONY. Neglected, rather;
ANTONY. No further, sir.
ANTONY. No more light answers. Let our officers
ANTONY. No, my chuck. Eros! Come, mine armour, Eros!
ANTONY. No, no, no, no, no.
ANTONY. No;
ANTONY. Not so, not so;
ANTONY. Now I must
ANTONY. Now, Eros.
ANTONY. Now, by my sword-
ANTONY. Now, my dearest queen-
ANTONY. Now, sirrah, you do wish yourself in Egypt?
ANTONY. O, fie, fie, fie!
ANTONY. O, quick, or I am gone.
ANTONY. O, whither hast thou led me, Egypt? See
ANTONY. Of it own colour too.
ANTONY. Our overplus of shipping will we burn,
ANTONY. Peace!
ANTONY. Quarrel no more, but be prepar'd to know
ANTONY. Rarely, rarely!
ANTONY. Say to me,
ANTONY. Set we our squadrons on yon side o' th' hill,
ANTONY. She is cunning past man's thought.
ANTONY. She's dead, my Queen.
ANTONY. Since Cleopatra died,
ANTONY. Sir,
ANTONY. Sit, sir.
ANTONY. So is the fame.
ANTONY. So much uncurbable, her garboils, Caesar,
ANTONY. Sometime we see a cloud that's dragonish;
ANTONY. Speak this no more.
ANTONY. Speak to me home; mince not the general tongue;
ANTONY. Tend me to-night;
ANTONY. Thank you.
ANTONY. That which is now a horse, even with a thought
ANTONY. That will I, Pompey.
ANTONY. The April's in her eyes. It is love's spring,
ANTONY. The Queen shall then have courtesy, so she
ANTONY. The beds i' th' East are soft; and thanks to you,
ANTONY. The business she hath broached in the state
ANTONY. The gods best know-
ANTONY. The world and my great office will sometimes
ANTONY. Their preparation is to-day by sea;
ANTONY. Then let it do at once
ANTONY. Then must thou needs find out new heaven, new earth.
ANTONY. There's beggary in the love that can be reckon'd.
ANTONY. These quicksands, Lepidus,
ANTONY. They are so.
ANTONY. They do retire.
ANTONY. Thou art a soldier only. Speak no more.
ANTONY. Thou bleed'st apace.
ANTONY. Thou canst not fear us, Pompey, with thy sails;
ANTONY. Thrice nobler than myself!
ANTONY. To flatter Caesar, would you mingle eyes
ANTONY. To him again. Tell him he wears the rose
ANTONY. To let a fellow that will take rewards,
ANTONY. To-morrow, soldier,
ANTONY. Too late, good Diomed. Call my guard, I prithee.
ANTONY. Tug him away. Being whipt,
ANTONY. Unarm, Eros; the long day's task is done,
ANTONY. Vanish, or I shall give thee thy deserving
ANTONY. We have beat him to his camp. Run one before
ANTONY. We will yet do well.
ANTONY. Well said; come on.
ANTONY. Well, my good fellows, wait on me to-night.
ANTONY. Well, well- away.
ANTONY. Well, well;
ANTONY. Well, what worst?
ANTONY. What is his strength by land?
ANTONY. What power is in Agrippa,
ANTONY. What say'st thou?
ANTONY. What's the matter?
ANTONY. When I did make thee free, swor'st thou not then
ANTONY. When did she send thee?
ANTONY. When it appears to you where this begins,
ANTONY. When it concerns the fool or coward. On!
ANTONY. Where died she?
ANTONY. Where is she?
ANTONY. Where lies he?
ANTONY. Which do not be entreated to, but weigh
ANTONY. Who's gone this morning?
ANTONY. Why should he not?
ANTONY. Will Caesar speak?
ANTONY. With the health that Pompey gives him, else he is a very
ANTONY. Would I had never seen her!
ANTONY. Would thou and those thy scars had once prevail'd
ANTONY. Yes, my lord, yes. He at Philippi kept
ANTONY. Yet they are not join'd. Where yond pine does stand
ANTONY. You do mistake your business; my brother never
ANTONY. You have been a boggler ever.
ANTONY. You have heard much.
ANTONY. You shall not find,
ANTONY. You wrong this presence; therefore speak no more.
ANTONY. You'll heat my blood; no more.
ANTONY. [To CAESAR] Thus do they, sir: they take the flow o' th'
Accuse me thus, that I have scanted all,
Against strange maladies a sovereign cure:
Although I swear it to my self alone.
Although she knows my days are past the best,
Am of my self, all-tyrant, for thy sake?
Among a number one is reckoned none.
And 'Will' to boot, and 'Will' in over-plus,
And I a tyrant have no leisure taken
And I my self am mortgaged to thy will,
And age in love, loves not to have years told.
And all my honest faith in thee is lost.
And beauty slandered with a bastard shame,
And brought to medicine a healthful state
And for that sorrow, which I then did feel,
And frantic-mad with evermore unrest,
And given to time your own dear-purchased right,
And grew a seeting bath which yet men prove,
And his love-kindling fire did quickly steep
And in abundance addeth to his store,
And in my madness might speak ill of thee,
And in my will no fair acceptance shine?
And in some perfumes is there more delight,
And let that pine to aggravate thy store;
And my next self thou harder hast engrossed,
And on just proof surmise, accumulate,
And play the mother's part, kiss me, be kind.
And rather make them born to our desire,
And ruined love when it is built anew
And sealed false bonds of love as oft as mine,
And sick of welfare found a kind of meetness,
And situation with those dancing chips,
And so the general of hot desire,
And soon to you, as you to me then tendered
And sue a friend, came debtor for my sake,
And suit thy pity like in every part.
And swear that brightness doth not grace the day?
And take thou my oblation, poor but free,
And taught it thus anew to greet:
And the just pleasure lost, which is so deemed,
And therefore from my face she turns my foes,
And thither hied a sad distempered guest.
And thou shalt find it merits not reproving,
And to be sure that is not false I swear,
And to enlighten thee gave eyes to blindness,
And truly not the morning sun of heaven
And wherefore say not I that I am old?
And whether that my angel be turned fiend,
And will thy soul knows is admitted there,
And would corrupt my saint to be a devil:
Angry that his prescriptions are not kept
Applying fears to hopes, and hopes to fears,
As I by yours, y'have passed a hell of time,
As his triumphant prize, proud of this pride,
As subject to time's love or to time's hate,
As testy sick men when their deaths be near,
As those two mourning eyes become thy face:
As those whose beauties proudly make them cruel;
As thou goest onwards still will pluck thee back,
As to prevent our maladies unseen,
At my abuses, reckon up their own,
At random from the truth vainly expressed.
At such who not born fair no beauty lack,
At the wood's boldness by thee blushing stand.
Ay, fill it full with wills, and my will one,
BERTRAM, Count of Rousillon
BERTRAM.  [Aside to PAROLLES]  Is she gone to the King?
BERTRAM. A heaven on earth I have won by wooing thee.
BERTRAM. A plague upon him! muffled! He can say nothing of me.
BERTRAM. A pox on him! he's a cat still.
BERTRAM. Admiringly, my liege. At first
BERTRAM. All's one to him. What a past-saving slave is this!
BERTRAM. Although before the solemn priest I have sworn,
BERTRAM. And I in going, madam, weep o'er my father's death anew;
BERTRAM. And I will do so.
BERTRAM. And by other warranted testimony.
BERTRAM. And so 'tis.
BERTRAM. Both, both; o, pardon!
BERTRAM. But I con him no thanks for't in the nature he delivers it.
BERTRAM. But follows it, my lord, to bring me down
BERTRAM. But you must not now slumber in it.
BERTRAM. Change it, change it;
BERTRAM. Come, come, no more of that.
BERTRAM. Damnable both-sides rogue!
BERTRAM. Do you think I am so far deceived in him?
BERTRAM. For this description of thine honesty? A pox upon him! For
BERTRAM. Go with me to my chamber and advise me.
BERTRAM. Good morrow, noble Captain.
BERTRAM. He shall be whipt through the army with this rhyme in's
BERTRAM. Here, take my ring;
BERTRAM. Hers it was not.
BERTRAM. His good remembrance, sir,
BERTRAM. How have I sworn!
BERTRAM. How now, monsieur! This drum sticks sorely in your
BERTRAM. I am commanded here and kept a coil with
BERTRAM. I cannot love her, nor will strive to do 't.
BERTRAM. I could endure anything before but a cat, and now he's a
BERTRAM. I do assure you, my lord, he is very great in knowledge,
BERTRAM. I grow to you, and our parting is a tortur'd body.
BERTRAM. I have it not.
BERTRAM. I have to-night dispatch'd sixteen businesses, a month's
BERTRAM. I have writ my letters, casketed my treasure,
BERTRAM. I heard not of it before.
BERTRAM. I know th' art valiant; and, to the of thy soldiership,
BERTRAM. I mean the business is not ended, as fearing to hear of it
BERTRAM. I pray you, stay not, but in haste to horse.
BERTRAM. I shall obey his will.
BERTRAM. I shall stay here the forehorse to a smock,
BERTRAM. I take her hand.
BERTRAM. I think she has. Certain it is I lik'd her,
BERTRAM. I think so.
BERTRAM. I would I knew in what particular action to try him.
BERTRAM. I'll lend it thee, my dear, but have no power
BERTRAM. If she, my liege, can make me know this clearly,
BERTRAM. If you shall prove
BERTRAM. Is there any unkindness between my lord and you, monsieur?
BERTRAM. It is an honour 'longing to our house,
BERTRAM. It may be you have mistaken him, my lord.
BERTRAM. It might, but it is not now.
BERTRAM. It shall be so; I'll send her to my house,
BERTRAM. Let that go.
BERTRAM. Madam, I desire your holy wishes.
BERTRAM. May I be bold to acquaint his Grace you are gone about it?
BERTRAM. My gracious sovereign,
BERTRAM. My high-repented blames,
BERTRAM. My lord, I do confess the ring was hers.
BERTRAM. My lord, I neither can nor will deny
BERTRAM. My lord, this is a fond and desp'rate creature
BERTRAM. My thanks and duty are your Majesty's.
BERTRAM. My wife, my liege! I shall beseech your Highness,
BERTRAM. Nay, by your leave, hold your hands; though I know his
BERTRAM. No matter; his heels have deserv'd it, in usurping his
BERTRAM. No more o'that!
BERTRAM. Nothing of me, has 'a?
BERTRAM. Now will I lead you to the house, and show you
BERTRAM. O my Parolles, they have married me!
BERTRAM. Our interpreter does it well.
BERTRAM. Pardon, my gracious lord; for I submit
BERTRAM. She never saw it.
BERTRAM. She's impudent, my lord,
BERTRAM. She's none of mine, my lord.
BERTRAM. Sir, it is
BERTRAM. So should you be.
BERTRAM. Some six months since, my lord.
BERTRAM. Stay; the King!
BERTRAM. Thank your Majesty.                 Exeunt [Flourish]
BERTRAM. That's all the fault. I spoke with her but once,
BERTRAM. The best wishes that can be forg'd in your thoughts be
BERTRAM. There's letters from my mother; what th' import is I know
BERTRAM. They told me that your name was Fontibell.
BERTRAM. This very day,
BERTRAM. Titled goddess;
BERTRAM. Undone, and forfeited to cares for ever!
BERTRAM. Well, we cannot greatly condemn our success.
BERTRAM. Well, what would you say?
BERTRAM. What is it, my good lord, the King languishes of?
BERTRAM. What of him?
BERTRAM. What shall be done to him?
BERTRAM. What would you have?
BERTRAM. Where are my other men, monsieur?
BERTRAM. Why, do you think he will make no deed at all of this that
BERTRAM. Why, if you have a stomach, to't, monsieur. If you think
BERTRAM. Will she away to-night?
BERTRAM. Yes, I do know him well; and common speech
BERTRAM. Yes, my good lord;
BERTRAM. Yes, my lord, and of very valiant approof.
BERTRAM. You are deceiv'd, my lord; she never saw it.
BERTRAM. Your brother, he shall go along with me.
BOTH. Sir, good success!
Be anchored in the bay where all men ride,
Be it lawful I love thee as thou lov'st those,
Be wise as thou art cruel, do not press
Before a joy proposed behind a dream.
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
Better becomes the grey cheeks of the east,
Beyond all date even to eternity.
Book both my wilfulness and errors down,
Breathed forth the sound that said 'I hate',
Bring me within the level of your frown,
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
But all alone stands hugely politic,
But at my mistress' eye Love's brand new-fired,
But bears it out even to the edge of doom:
But being both from me both to each friend,
But if thou catch thy hope turn back to me:
But is profaned, if not lives in disgrace.
But mutual render, only me for thee.
But my five wits, nor my five senses can
But no such roses see I in her cheeks,
But now is black beauty's successive heir,
But rising at thy name doth point out thee,
But shoot not at me in your wakened hate:
But slave to slavery my sweet'st friend must be?
But then my friend's heart let my poor heart bail,
But thou art twice forsworn to me love swearing,
But thou wilt not, nor he will not be free,
But when she saw my woeful state,
But wherefore says she not she is unjust?
But why of two oaths' breach do I accuse thee,
Buy terms divine in selling hours of dross;
By their rank thoughts, my deeds must not be shown
CAESAR. 'Tis done already, and messenger gone.
CAESAR. About the Mount Misenum.
CAESAR. Adieu; be happy!
CAESAR. And what may follow,
CAESAR. Antony,
CAESAR. Approach, and speak.
CAESAR. Be't so. Declare thine office.
CAESAR. Bring him through the bands.           Exit EUPHRONIUS
CAESAR. But being charg'd, we will be still by land,
CAESAR. Caesar; and that, having in Sicily
CAESAR. Contemning Rome, he has done all this and more
CAESAR. Doubt not, sir;
CAESAR. Farewell, farewell!                   [Kisses OCTAVIA]
CAESAR. Farewell, my dearest sister, fare thee well.
CAESAR. For Antony,
CAESAR. Go charge Agrippa
CAESAR. Go forth, Agrippa, and begin the fight.
CAESAR. Good night.                  Exeunt CAESAR and OCTAVIA
CAESAR. Great and increasing; but by sea
CAESAR. He calls me boy, and chides as he had power
CAESAR. I could well forbear't.
CAESAR. I do not know, Maecenas. Ask Agrippa.
CAESAR. I do not much dislike the matter, but
CAESAR. I have eyes upon him,
CAESAR. I have said.
CAESAR. I must be laugh'd at
CAESAR. I should have known no less.
CAESAR. I wrote to you
CAESAR. I' th' common show-place, where they exercise.
CAESAR. Let him appear that's come from Antony.
CAESAR. Let his shames quickly
CAESAR. Let our best heads
CAESAR. Most certain. Sister, welcome. Pray you
CAESAR. Most meet
CAESAR. Nay, then.                                  [They sit]
CAESAR. No more than my residing here at Rome
CAESAR. No, my most wronged sister: Cleopatra
CAESAR. No, sweet Octavia,
CAESAR. Nor must not then be yielded to in this.
CAESAR. Not till he hears how Antony is touch'd
CAESAR. Observe how Antony becomes his flaw,
CAESAR. Possess it, I'll make answer.
CAESAR. Say not so, Agrippa.
CAESAR. Since I saw you last
CAESAR. Sit.
CAESAR. Speak, Agrippa.
CAESAR. Strike not by land; keep whole; provoke not battle
CAESAR. Take your time.
CAESAR. Taurus!
CAESAR. That ever I should call thee cast-away!
CAESAR. That's the next to do.
CAESAR. The people knows it, and have now receiv'd
CAESAR. The power of Caesar, and
CAESAR. The time of universal peace is near.
CAESAR. There is my hand.
CAESAR. There's the point.
CAESAR. Till which encounter
CAESAR. To lend me arms and aid when I requir'd them,
CAESAR. Welcome hither.
CAESAR. Welcome to Rome.
CAESAR. What would you more? Pompey, good night. Good brother,
CAESAR. What, Octavia?
CAESAR. Which soon he granted,
CAESAR. Why have you stol'n upon us thus? You come not
CAESAR. Will this description satisfy him?
CAESAR. With most gladness;
CAESAR. You are too indulgent. Let's grant it is not
CAESAR. You have broken
CAESAR. You may be pleas'd to catch at mine intent
CAESAR. You may see, Lepidus, and henceforth know,
CAESAR. You praise yourself
CAESAR. You take from me a great part of myself;
CANIDIUS, Lieutenant-General to Antony
CANIDIUS. Ay, and to wage this battle at Pharsalia,
CANIDIUS. Marcus Octavius, Marcus Justeius,
CANIDIUS. Our fortune on the sea is out of breath,
CANIDIUS. Soldier, thou art; but his whole action grows
CANIDIUS. To Caesar will I render
CANIDIUS. Toward Peloponnesus are they fled.
CANIDIUS. Well I know the man.
CANIDIUS. Who's his lieutenant, hear you?
CANIDIUS. Why will my lord do so?
CANIDIUS. With news the time's with labour and throes forth
CAPTAIN. The morn is fair. Good morrow, General.
CENTURION. Enobarbus?
CENTURION. If we be not reliev'd within this hour,
CENTURION. Let's hear him, for the things he speaks
CENTURION. Swoons rather; for so bad a prayer as his
CENTURION. The hand of death hath raught him.
CHARMIAN, lady attending on Cleopatra
CHARMIAN. 'Twas merry when
CHARMIAN. A proper man.
CHARMIAN. Amen.
CHARMIAN. Be comforted, dear madam.
CHARMIAN. By your most gracious pardon,
CHARMIAN. Do? Why, what else?
CHARMIAN. E'en as the o'erflowing Nilus presageth famine.
CHARMIAN. Excellent.
CHARMIAN. Good madam, keep yourself within yourself:
CHARMIAN. Good now, some excellent fortune! Let me be married to
CHARMIAN. Good your Highness, patience.
CHARMIAN. Good, sir, give me good fortune.
CHARMIAN. Hath he seen majesty? Isis else defend,
CHARMIAN. He is afear'd to come.
CHARMIAN. He means in flesh.
CHARMIAN. Hush!
CHARMIAN. I did not see him since.
CHARMIAN. I had rather heat my liver with drinking.
CHARMIAN. I warrant you, madam.                         Exeunt
CHARMIAN. In each thing give him way; cross him in nothing.
CHARMIAN. Is this the man? Is't you, sir, that know things?
CHARMIAN. Like her? O Isis! 'tis impossible.
CHARMIAN. Lord Alexas, sweet Alexas, most anything Alexas, almost
CHARMIAN. Madam!
CHARMIAN. Madam, I trust, not so.
CHARMIAN. Madam, methinks, if you did love him dearly,
CHARMIAN. Madam?
CHARMIAN. Many times, madam.
CHARMIAN. My arm is sore; best play with Mardian.
CHARMIAN. Nay, come, tell Iras hers.
CHARMIAN. Nay, if an oily palm be not a fruitful prognostication, I
CHARMIAN. No, madam.
CHARMIAN. Not he; the Queen.
CHARMIAN. Nothing, madam.
CHARMIAN. O that brave Caesar!
CHARMIAN. O, excellent! I love long life better than figs.
CHARMIAN. Our worser thoughts heavens mend! Alexas- come, his
CHARMIAN. Out, fool! I forgive thee for a witch.
CHARMIAN. Please you retire to your chamber?
CHARMIAN. Pray, then, foresee me one.
CHARMIAN. Tempt him not so too far; I wish, forbear;
CHARMIAN. The valiant Caesar!
CHARMIAN. Then belike my children shall have no names.
CHARMIAN. Three in Egypt
CHARMIAN. To th'monument!
CHARMIAN. Well, if you were but an inch of fortune better than I,
CHARMIAN. Why, madam?
CHARMIAN. Wrinkles forbid!
CHARMIAN. You think of him too much.
CLEOPATRA, Queen of Egypt
CLEOPATRA. 'Tis sweating labour
CLEOPATRA. Ah, dear, if I be so,
CLEOPATRA. Ah, stand by!
CLEOPATRA. And target. Still he mends;
CLEOPATRA. And when good will is show'd, though't come too short,
CLEOPATRA. Antony's dead! If thou say so, villain,
CLEOPATRA. As well a woman with an eunuch play'd
CLEOPATRA. Be chok'd with such another emphasis!
CLEOPATRA. Bear'st thou her face in mind? Is't long or round?
CLEOPATRA. By Isis, I will give thee bloody teeth
CLEOPATRA. By sea! What else?
CLEOPATRA. Caesar's will?
CLEOPATRA. Call all his noble captains to my lord.
CLEOPATRA. Celerity is never more admir'd
CLEOPATRA. Charmian!
CLEOPATRA. Courteous lord, one word.
CLEOPATRA. Cut my lace, Charmian, come!
CLEOPATRA. Didst hear her speak? Is she shrill-tongu'd or low?
CLEOPATRA. Didst thou behold Octavia?
CLEOPATRA. Excellent falsehood!
CLEOPATRA. For the most part, too, they are foolish that are so.
CLEOPATRA. For what good turn?
CLEOPATRA. Give me some music- music, moody food
CLEOPATRA. Go on. Right royal!
CLEOPATRA. Go to, go to.
CLEOPATRA. Good my lord-
CLEOPATRA. Guess at her years, I prithee.
CLEOPATRA. Ha, ha!
CLEOPATRA. Have you done yet?
CLEOPATRA. He is a god, and knows
CLEOPATRA. He is married?
CLEOPATRA. He was dispos'd to mirth; but on the sudden
CLEOPATRA. He's very knowing;
CLEOPATRA. Hear the ambassadors.
CLEOPATRA. Help me away, dear Charmian; I shall fall.
CLEOPATRA. Help me, my women. O, he is more mad
CLEOPATRA. Here's sport indeed! How heavy weighs my lord!
CLEOPATRA. How much unlike art thou Mark Antony!
CLEOPATRA. I am paid for't now. Lead me from hence,
CLEOPATRA. I am pale, Charmian.
CLEOPATRA. I am sick and sullen.
CLEOPATRA. I dare not, dear.
CLEOPATRA. I do not like 'but yet.' It does allay
CLEOPATRA. I have a mind to strike thee ere thou speak'st.
CLEOPATRA. I have one thing more to ask him yet, good Charmian.
CLEOPATRA. I have sixty sails, Caesar none better.
CLEOPATRA. I know by that same eye there's some good news.
CLEOPATRA. I must stay his time.
CLEOPATRA. I think so, Charmian. Dull of tongue and dwarfish!
CLEOPATRA. I will be even with thee, doubt it not.
CLEOPATRA. I will not hurt him.
CLEOPATRA. I would I had thy inches. Thou shouldst know
CLEOPATRA. I'll give thee, friend,
CLEOPATRA. I'll set a bourn how far to be belov'd.
CLEOPATRA. If it be love indeed, tell me how much.
CLEOPATRA. In praising Antony I have disprais'd Caesar.
CLEOPATRA. Indeed, he is so. I repent me much
CLEOPATRA. Indeed?
CLEOPATRA. Is Antony or we in fault for this?
CLEOPATRA. Is he married?
CLEOPATRA. Is not this buckled well?
CLEOPATRA. Is she as tall as me?
CLEOPATRA. Is this certain?
CLEOPATRA. Is't not denounc'd against us? Why should not we
CLEOPATRA. It is my birthday.
CLEOPATRA. Lead me.
CLEOPATRA. Let it alone! Let's to billiards. Come, Charmian.
CLEOPATRA. Let me sit down. O Juno!
CLEOPATRA. Lord of lords!
CLEOPATRA. Make thee a fortune from me.
CLEOPATRA. Mine ear must pluck it thence.
CLEOPATRA. Most kind messenger,
CLEOPATRA. My salad days,
CLEOPATRA. Nay, I'll help too.
CLEOPATRA. Nay, hear them, Antony.
CLEOPATRA. Nay, pray you seek no colour for your going,
CLEOPATRA. No, I will not.
CLEOPATRA. None but friends: say boldly.
CLEOPATRA. Not know me yet?
CLEOPATRA. Not now to hear thee sing; I take no pleasure
CLEOPATRA. O Charmian,
CLEOPATRA. O Charmian, I will never go from hence!
CLEOPATRA. O most false love!
CLEOPATRA. O my lord, my lord,
CLEOPATRA. O sun,
CLEOPATRA. O well-divided disposition! Note him,
CLEOPATRA. O!
CLEOPATRA. O, 'tis treason!
CLEOPATRA. O, I would thou didst,
CLEOPATRA. O, is't come to this?
CLEOPATRA. O, my pardon!
CLEOPATRA. O, never was there queen
CLEOPATRA. O, that his fault should make a knave of thee
CLEOPATRA. Pardon, pardon!
CLEOPATRA. Perchance? Nay, and most like,
CLEOPATRA. Pray you, stand farther from me.
CLEOPATRA. Prithee, peace.
CLEOPATRA. Rogue, thou hast liv'd too long.    [Draws a knife]
CLEOPATRA. Saw you my lord?
CLEOPATRA. Say 'tis not so, a province I will give thee,
CLEOPATRA. See where he is, who's with him, what he does.
CLEOPATRA. Seek him, and bring him hither. Where's Alexas?
CLEOPATRA. Sink Rome, and their tongues rot
CLEOPATRA. Sleep a little.
CLEOPATRA. So Fulvia told me.
CLEOPATRA. So it should be, that none but Antony
CLEOPATRA. Some innocents scape not the thunderbolt.
CLEOPATRA. Sooth, la, I'll help. Thus it must be.
CLEOPATRA. Th'art an honest man.
CLEOPATRA. That Herod's head
CLEOPATRA. That I might sleep out this great gap of time
CLEOPATRA. That head, my lord?
CLEOPATRA. That time? O times
CLEOPATRA. That's my brave lord!
CLEOPATRA. That's not so good. He cannot like her long.
CLEOPATRA. The gods confound thee! Dost thou hold there still?
CLEOPATRA. The man hath seen some majesty, and should know.
CLEOPATRA. The most infectious pestilence upon thee!
CLEOPATRA. There's gold for thee.
CLEOPATRA. Thou hast forspoke my being in these wars,
CLEOPATRA. Thou teachest like a fool- the way to lose him.
CLEOPATRA. Thou, eunuch Mardian!
CLEOPATRA. Though age from folly could not give me freedom,
CLEOPATRA. To th' monument!
CLEOPATRA. Was he not here?
CLEOPATRA. We will not look upon him. Go with us.
CLEOPATRA. Well said.
CLEOPATRA. Well then, sustain me. O!
CLEOPATRA. Well, go to, I will.
CLEOPATRA. What is't you say?
CLEOPATRA. What say you? Hence,                  [Strikes him]
CLEOPATRA. What shall we do, Enobarbus?
CLEOPATRA. What should I do I do not?
CLEOPATRA. What's your name?
CLEOPATRA. What, no more ceremony? See, my women!
CLEOPATRA. What, was he sad or merry?
CLEOPATRA. Where is he?
CLEOPATRA. Where is the fellow?
CLEOPATRA. Where?
CLEOPATRA. Wherefore is this?
CLEOPATRA. Who's born that day
CLEOPATRA. Why is my lord enrag'd against his love?
CLEOPATRA. Why should I think you can be mine and true,
CLEOPATRA. Why, there's more gold.
CLEOPATRA. Widow? Charmian, hark!
CLEOPATRA. You can do better yet; but this is meetly.
CLEOPATRA. Your Caesar's father oft,
CLEOPATRA. [Aside to ENOBARBUS] What does he mean?
CLEOPATRA. [Aside to ENOBARBUS] What means this?
CLOWN.  [Sings]
CLOWN. 'Tis not unknown to you, madam, I am a poor fellow.
CLOWN. A fool, sir, at a woman's service, and a knave at a man's.
CLOWN. A prophet I, madam; and I speak the truth the next way:
CLOWN. And I would give his wife my bauble, sir, to do her service.
CLOWN. As fit as ten groats is for the hand of an attorney, as your
CLOWN. At your service.
CLOWN. But a trifle neither, in good faith, if the learned should
CLOWN. But it is your carbonado'd face.
CLOWN. By my troth, I take my young lord to be a very melancholy
CLOWN. Did you find me in yourself, sir, or were you taught to find
CLOWN. E'en that you have there.                          Exit
CLOWN. Faith, madam, I have other holy reasons, such as they are.
CLOWN. Faith, sir, 'a has an English name; but his fisnomy is more
CLOWN. Faith, there's a dozen of 'em, with delicate fine hats, and
CLOWN. Foh! prithee stand away. A paper from Fortune's close-stool
CLOWN. From below your duke to beneath your constable, it will fit
CLOWN. I am a woodland fellow, sir, that always loved a great fire;
CLOWN. I am no great Nebuchadnezzar, sir; I have not much skill in
CLOWN. I am out o' friends, madam, and I hope to have friends for
CLOWN. I do beg your good will in this case.
CLOWN. I have been, madam, a wicked creature, as you and all flesh
CLOWN. I have no mind to Isbel since I was at court. Our old ling
CLOWN. I ne'er had worse luck in my life in my 'O Lord, sir!' I see
CLOWN. I will show myself highly fed and lowly taught. I know my
CLOWN. I would cozen the man of his wife, and do his service.
CLOWN. If I put any tricks upon 'em, sir, they shall be jades'
CLOWN. In Isbel's case and mine own. Service is no heritage; and I
CLOWN. Indeed, sir, if your metaphor stink, I will stop my nose; or
CLOWN. Indeed, sir, she was the sweet-marjoram of the sallet, or,
CLOWN. It is like a barber's chair, that fits all buttocks-the pin
CLOWN. Marry, you are the wiser man; for many a man's tongue shakes
CLOWN. Most fruitfully; I am there before my legs.
CLOWN. My poor body, madam, requires it. I am driven on by the
CLOWN. Nay, there is some comfort in the news, some comfort; your
CLOWN. No, madam, 'tis not so well that I am poor, though many of
CLOWN. Not much commendation to them?
CLOWN. O Lord, sir!-Nay, put me to't, I warrant you.
CLOWN. O Lord, sir!-Spare not me.
CLOWN. O Lord, sir!-There's a simple putting off. More, more, a
CLOWN. O Lord, sir!-Thick, thick; spare not me.
CLOWN. O Lord, sir!-Why, there't serves well again.
CLOWN. O madam, yonder is heavy news within between two soldiers
CLOWN. O madam, yonder's my lord your son with a patch of velvet
CLOWN. One good woman in ten, madam, which is a purifying o' th'
CLOWN. One, that she's not in heaven, whither God send her quickly!
CLOWN. She is not well, but yet she has her health; she's very
CLOWN. So say I, madam, if he run away, as I hear he does the
CLOWN. So that you had her wrinkles and I her money, I would she
CLOWN. That man should be at woman's command, and yet no hurt done!
CLOWN. The Black Prince, sir; alias, the Prince of Darkness; alias,
CLOWN. Truly, Fortune's displeasure is but sluttish, if it smell
CLOWN. Truly, madam, if God have lent a man any manners, he may
CLOWN. Truly, she's very well indeed, but for two things.
CLOWN. Why, he will look upon his boot and sing; mend the ruff and
CLOWN. Why, sir, if I cannot serve you, I can serve as great a
CLOWN. Y'are shallow, madam-in great friends; for the knaves come
CLOWN. You should have said, sir, 'Before a knave th'art a knave';
COUNTESS OF ROUSILLON, mother to Bertram
COUNTESS.  [Reads]  'I have sent you a daughter-in-law; she hath
COUNTESS. 'Tis past, my liege;
COUNTESS. 'Tis the best brine a maiden can season her praise in.
COUNTESS. A very tainted fellow, and full of wickedness.
COUNTESS. Ah, what sharp stings are in her mildest words!
COUNTESS. Alas! and would you take the letter of her?
COUNTESS. An end, sir! To your business: give Helen this,
COUNTESS. And to be a soldier?
COUNTESS. Be thou blest, Bertram, and succeed thy father
COUNTESS. Brought you this letter, gentlemen?
COUNTESS. But think you, Helen,
COUNTESS. By what observance, I pray you?
COUNTESS. Come on, sir; I shall now put you to the height of your
COUNTESS. Do you cry 'O Lord, sir!' at your whipping, and 'spare
COUNTESS. Do you love my son?
COUNTESS. Dost thou believe't?
COUNTESS. Faith I do. Her father bequeath'd her to me; and she
COUNTESS. Find you that there?
COUNTESS. Get you gone, sir; I'll talk with you more anon.
COUNTESS. Go not about; my love hath in't a bond
COUNTESS. Had you not lately an intent-speak truly-
COUNTESS. Haste you again.                              Exeunt
COUNTESS. Have you, I, say, an answer of such fitness for all
COUNTESS. He blushes, and 'tis it.
COUNTESS. He was famous, sir, in his profession, and it was his
COUNTESS. Heaven bless him! Farewell, Bertram.            Exit
COUNTESS. His sole child, my lord, and bequeathed to my
COUNTESS. I play the noble housewife with the time,
COUNTESS. I prithee, lady, have a better cheer;
COUNTESS. I say I am your mother.
COUNTESS. I think, sir, you can eat none of this homely meat.
COUNTESS. I will now hear; what say you of this gentlewoman?
COUNTESS. I would I had not known him. It was the death of the most
COUNTESS. If the living be enemy to the grief, the excess makes it
COUNTESS. In delivering my son from me, I bury a second husband.
COUNTESS. In what case?
COUNTESS. Is this all your worship's reason?
COUNTESS. It hath happen'd all as I would have had it, save that he
COUNTESS. It must be an answer of most monstrous size that must fit
COUNTESS. It rejoices me that I hope I shall see him ere I die.
COUNTESS. Let me see what he writes, and when he means to come.
COUNTESS. Love you my son?
COUNTESS. Marry, that's a bountiful answer that fits all questions.
COUNTESS. May the world know them?
COUNTESS. Nay, a mother.
COUNTESS. Nor I your mother?
COUNTESS. Not much employment for you. You understand me?
COUNTESS. Not so, but as we change our courtesies.
COUNTESS. Nothing in France until he have no wife!
COUNTESS. Now, justice on the doers!
COUNTESS. Parolles, was it not?
COUNTESS. Return you thither?
COUNTESS. Sir, I am a poor friend of yours, that loves you.
COUNTESS. Sirrah, tell my gentlewoman I would speak with her; Helen
COUNTESS. So 'a is. My lord that's gone made himself much  sport
COUNTESS. Son, on my life,
COUNTESS. Such friends are thine enemies, knave.
COUNTESS. Tell me thy reason why thou wilt marry.
COUNTESS. Think upon patience. Pray you, gentlemen-
COUNTESS. This was your motive
COUNTESS. This young gentlewoman had a father- O, that 'had,' how
COUNTESS. Thy marriage, sooner than thy wickedness.
COUNTESS. To be young again, if we could, I will be a fool in
COUNTESS. To the court! Why, what place make you special, when you
COUNTESS. Well, now.
COUNTESS. Well, sir.
COUNTESS. What angel shall
COUNTESS. What does this knave here? Get you gone, sirrah. The
COUNTESS. What have we here?
COUNTESS. What hope is there of his Majesty's amendment?
COUNTESS. What is the -matter?
COUNTESS. What, one good in ten? You corrupt the song, sirrah.
COUNTESS. Wherefore? Tell true.
COUNTESS. Which better than the first, O dear heaven, bless!
COUNTESS. Why should he be kill'd?
COUNTESS. Why, Helen, thou shalt have my leave and love,
COUNTESS. Will your answer serve fit to all questions?
COUNTESS. Wilt thou ever be a foul-mouth'd and calumnious knave?
COUNTESS. Wilt thou needs be a beggar?
COUNTESS. With very much content, my lord; and I wish it happily
COUNTESS. Y'are welcome, gentlemen.
COUNTESS. YOU have discharg'd this honestly; keep it to yourself.
COUNTESS. Yes, Helen, you might be my daughter-in-law.
COUNTESS. You know, Helen,
COUNTESS. You need but plead your honourable privilege.
COUNTESS. You were lately whipp'd, sir, as I think.
COUNTESS. You'll be gone, sir knave, and do as I command you.
Came tripping by, but in her maiden hand,
Canst thou O cruel, say I love thee not,
Chiding that tongue that ever sweet,
Commanded by the motion of thine eyes?
Coral is far more red, than her lips red,
Cries to catch her whose busy care is bent,
Cupid laid by his brand and fell asleep,
DEMETRIUS,             "    "   "
DEMETRIUS. I am full sorry
DEMETRIUS. Is Caesar with Antonius priz'd so slight?
DERCETAS,              "    "   "
DERCETAS. There, Diomed, there.
DERCETAS. Thy death and fortunes bid thy followers fly.
DIANA, daughter to the Widow
DIANA. 'Tis not the many oaths that makes the truth,
DIANA. 'Tis pity he is not honest. Yond's that same knave
DIANA. Alas, poor lady!
DIANA. And this was it I gave him, being abed.
DIANA. Ay, my good lord.
DIANA. Ay, my lord.
DIANA. Ay, so you serve us
DIANA. Because he's guilty, and he is not guilty.
DIANA. By Jove, if ever I knew man, 'twas you.
DIANA. Do you know he promis'd me marriage?
DIANA. For which live long to thank both heaven and me!
DIANA. Good mother, fetch my bail. Stay, royal sir;
DIANA. Good my lord,
DIANA. He does me wrong, my lord; if I were so
DIANA. He-
DIANA. I am, my lord, a wretched Florentine,
DIANA. I did, my lord, but loath am to produce
DIANA. I found it not.
DIANA. I have spoke the truth.
DIANA. I must be patient.
DIANA. I never gave it him.
DIANA. I see that men make ropes in such a scarre
DIANA. I'll never tell you.
DIANA. I'll put in bail, my liege.
DIANA. If you shall marry,
DIANA. It might be yours or hers, for aught I know.
DIANA. It was not given me, nor I did not buy it.
DIANA. It was not lent me neither.
DIANA. Let death and honesty
DIANA. Mine honour's such a ring:
DIANA. Monsieur Parolles.
DIANA. No, my good lord, Diana.
DIANA. No.
DIANA. She then was honest.
DIANA. Sir, much like
DIANA. That jack-an-apes with scarfs. Why is he melancholy?
DIANA. The Count Rousillon. Know you such a one?
DIANA. There is a gentleman that serves the Count
DIANA. They say the French count has done most honourable service.
DIANA. What some'er he is,
DIANA. When midnight comes, knock at my chamber window;
DIANA. Why do you look so strange upon your wife?
DIANA. Will you not, my lord?
DIANA. You shall not need to fear me.
DIOMEDES,     "     "      "
DIOMEDES. His death's upon him, but not dead.
DIOMEDES. Lives he?
DIOMEDES. Lock'd in her monument. She had a prophesying fear
DIOMEDES. Most absolute lord,
DIOMEDES. Now, my lord.
DIOMEDES. What, ho! the Emperor's guard! The guard, what ho!
DIOMEDES. Where's Antony?
DOLABELLA,     "    "   "
DOLABELLA. Caesar, 'tis his schoolmaster:
DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS, friend to Antony
DUKE. Be it his pleasure.
DUKE. So that, from point to point, now have you hear
DUKE. The General of our Horse thou art; and we,
DUKE. Then go thou forth;
DUKE. Therefore we marvel much our cousin France
DUKE. Welcome shall they be
Dear heart forbear to glance thine eye aside,
Desire is death, which physic did except.
Dissuade one foolish heart from serving thee,
Distilled from limbecks foul as hell within,
Do I envy those jacks that nimble leap,
Do I not think on thee when I forgot
Dost hold Time's fickle glass his fickle hour:
Dost thou upon thy fading mansion spend?
Doth follow night who like a fiend
Doth half that glory to the sober west
ENOBARBUS. 'A bears the third part of the world, man; see'st not?
ENOBARBUS. 'Tis better playing with a lion's whelp
ENOBARBUS. 'Tis true.
ENOBARBUS. 'Twill be naught;
ENOBARBUS. A certain queen to Caesar in a mattress.
ENOBARBUS. A very fine one. O, how he loves Caesar!
ENOBARBUS. Alack, alack!
ENOBARBUS. Alack, sir, no! Her passions are made of nothing but the
ENOBARBUS. Alexas did revolt and went to Jewry on
ENOBARBUS. All take hands.
ENOBARBUS. And the business you have broach'd here cannot be
ENOBARBUS. And yonder, Caesar.
ENOBARBUS. Antony only, that would make his will
ENOBARBUS. At sea, I think.
ENOBARBUS. Ay, are you thereabouts?
ENOBARBUS. Ay, sir; we did sleep day out of countenance and made
ENOBARBUS. Be witness to me, O thou blessed moon,
ENOBARBUS. Bring in the banquet quickly; wine enough
ENOBARBUS. But he loves Caesar best. Yet he loves Antony.
ENOBARBUS. But she is now the wife of Marcus Antonius.
ENOBARBUS. But there is never a fair woman has a true face.
ENOBARBUS. But why, why,
ENOBARBUS. Caesar' sister is call'd Octavia.
ENOBARBUS. Caesar? Why he's the Jupiter of men.
ENOBARBUS. Drink thou; increase the reels.
ENOBARBUS. Every time
ENOBARBUS. Fulvia?
ENOBARBUS. Go to, then- your considerate stone!
ENOBARBUS. Half the heart of Caesar, worthy Maecenas! My honourable
ENOBARBUS. He needs as many, sir, as Caesar has,
ENOBARBUS. He thinks, being twenty times of better fortune,
ENOBARBUS. Her gentlewomen, like the Nereides,
ENOBARBUS. Here's to thee, Menas!
ENOBARBUS. Hoo! says 'a. There's my cap.
ENOBARBUS. How appears the fight?
ENOBARBUS. How now, friend Eros!
ENOBARBUS. Humbly, sir, I thank you.                    Exeunt
ENOBARBUS. Hush! Here comes Antony.
ENOBARBUS. I Will praise any man that will praise me; though it
ENOBARBUS. I am alone the villain of the earth,
ENOBARBUS. I give it you.
ENOBARBUS. I saw her once
ENOBARBUS. I shall do't.                                Exeunt
ENOBARBUS. I shall entreat him
ENOBARBUS. I shall take it, sir. We have us'd our throats in Egypt.
ENOBARBUS. I think so too. But you shall find the band that seems
ENOBARBUS. I will tell you.
ENOBARBUS. I'll strike, and cry 'Take all.'
ENOBARBUS. I'll yet follow
ENOBARBUS. If I were bound to divine of this unity, I would not
ENOBARBUS. If he do, sure he cannot weep't back again.
ENOBARBUS. Madam?
ENOBARBUS. Mine, and most of our fortunes, to-night, shall be-
ENOBARBUS. Most worthy sir, you therein throw away
ENOBARBUS. Naught, naught, all naught! I can behold no longer.
ENOBARBUS. Nay, I have done.
ENOBARBUS. Never! He will not.
ENOBARBUS. No more of that! He did so.
ENOBARBUS. No, lady.
ENOBARBUS. No.
ENOBARBUS. Not he that himself is not so; which is Mark Antony. He
ENOBARBUS. Not if the small come first.
ENOBARBUS. Not till you have slept. I fear me you'll be in till
ENOBARBUS. Now he'll outstare the lightning. To be furious
ENOBARBUS. O Sir, you had then left unseen a wonderful piece of
ENOBARBUS. O sovereign mistress of true melancholy,
ENOBARBUS. O, bear me witness, night-
ENOBARBUS. Or, if you borrow one another's love for the instant,
ENOBARBUS. Our great navy's rigg'd.
ENOBARBUS. Sir,
ENOBARBUS. Sir?
ENOBARBUS. So hath my lord dar'd him to single fight.
ENOBARBUS. Spake you of Caesar? How! the nonpareil!
ENOBARBUS. Take heed you fall not.
ENOBARBUS. That I beheld;
ENOBARBUS. That truth should be silent I had almost forgot.
ENOBARBUS. Then, world, thou hast a pair of chaps- no more;
ENOBARBUS. There I deny my land service. But give me your hand,
ENOBARBUS. There's a strong fellow, Menas.
ENOBARBUS. They are his shards, and he their beetle. [Trumpets
ENOBARBUS. They have dispatch'd with Pompey; he is gone;
ENOBARBUS. Think, and die.
ENOBARBUS. This is old. What is the success?
ENOBARBUS. This was but as a fly by an eagle. We had much more
ENOBARBUS. Under a compelling occasion, let women die. It were pity
ENOBARBUS. Upon her landing, Antony sent to her,
ENOBARBUS. We came hither to fight with you.
ENOBARBUS. Well, is it, is it?
ENOBARBUS. Well;
ENOBARBUS. What mean you, sir,
ENOBARBUS. What's thy passion?
ENOBARBUS. What's your pleasure, sir?
ENOBARBUS. What, man?
ENOBARBUS. When she first met Mark Antony she purs'd up his heart,
ENOBARBUS. Why, sir, give the gods a thankful sacrifice. When it
ENOBARBUS. Why, then we kill all our women. We see how mortal an
ENOBARBUS. Would we had all such wives, that the men might go to
ENOBARBUS. Would you praise Caesar, say 'Caesar'- go no further.
ENOBARBUS. Yes, something you can deny for your own safety: you
ENOBARBUS. You have done well by water.
ENOBARBUS. Your presence needs must puzzle Antony;
ENOBARBUS. Your ships are not well mann'd;
ENOBARBUS. [Aside to AGRIPPA] He were the worse for that, were he a
ENOBARBUS. [Aside to AGRIPPA] That year, indeed, he was troubled
ENOBARBUS. [Aside to AGRIPPA] Will Caesar weep?
ENOBARBUS. [Aside to CLEOPATRA] 'Tis one of those odd tricks which
ENOBARBUS. [Aside] Mine honesty and I begin to square.
ENOBARBUS. [Aside] To be sure of that,
ENOBARBUS. [Aside] Well, I could reply:
ENOBARBUS. [Aside] You will be whipt.
ENOBARBUS. [To ANTONY] Ha, my brave emperor!
EROS,                  "    "   "
EROS. Ay, my lord.
EROS. Ay, noble lord.
EROS. Briefly, sir.
EROS. Caesar and Lepidus have made wars upon Pompey.
EROS. Caesar, having made use of him in the wars 'gainst Pompey,
EROS. Come, sir.                                        Exeunt
EROS. Farewell, great chief. Shall I strike now?
EROS. For Italy and Caesar. More, Domitius:
EROS. He's walking in the garden- thus, and spurns
EROS. I would not see't.
EROS. It does, my lord.
EROS. My dear master,
EROS. My sword is drawn.
EROS. Nay, gentle madam, to him! Comfort him.
EROS. O, sir, pardon me!
EROS. See you here, sir?
EROS. Sir, his chests and treasure
EROS. Sir, sir!
EROS. Sir, the Queen.
EROS. The Queen, my lord, the Queen!
EROS. The gods withhold me!
EROS. There's strange news come, sir.
EROS. They are beaten, sir, and our advantage serves
EROS. Turn from me then that noble countenance,
EROS. What would my lord?
EROS. Why, there then! Thus do I escape the sorrow
EUPHRONIUS, an Ambassador from Antony to Caesar
EUPHRONIUS. Ay, my lord.
EUPHRONIUS. Fortune pursue thee!
EUPHRONIUS. He says so.
EUPHRONIUS. Lord of his fortunes he salutes thee, and
EUPHRONIUS. Such as I am, I come from Antony.
EUPHRONIUS. [Aside] Yes, like enough high-battled Caesar will
Eat up thy charge? is this thy body's end?
Enjoyed no sooner but despised straight,
Even so being full of your ne'er-cloying sweetness,
FIRST ATTENDANT. The man from Sicyon- is there such an one?
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Ay, madam.
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Ay, madam;
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Do not say so.
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Madam, he's gone to serve the Duke of Florence.
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Such is his noble purpose; and, believe 't,
FIRST GENTLEMAN. We serve you, madam,
FIRST GUARD. And time is at his period.
FIRST GUARD. Not I.
FIRST GUARD. What's the noise?
FIRST GUARD. Woe, woe are we, sir, you may not live to wear
FIRST LORD. 'Tis our hope, sir,
FIRST LORD. A pox on 't; let it go; 'tis but a drum.
FIRST LORD. And grant it.
FIRST LORD. And how mightily some other times we drown our gain in
FIRST LORD. But I am sure the younger of our nature,
FIRST LORD. But you say she's honest.
FIRST LORD. Captain, what greeting will you to my Lord Lafeu? I am
FIRST LORD. Especially he hath incurred the everlasting displeasure
FIRST LORD. Farewell, Captain.
FIRST LORD. God bless you, Captain Parolles.
FIRST LORD. Hath the Count all this intelligence?
FIRST LORD. He hath perverted a young gentlewoman here in Florence,
FIRST LORD. His love and wisdom,
FIRST LORD. Holy seems the quarrel
FIRST LORD. How is this justified?
FIRST LORD. I am heartily sorry that he'll be glad of this.
FIRST LORD. I have deliv'red it an hour since. There is something
FIRST LORD. I hear there is an overture of peace.
FIRST LORD. I will never trust a man again for keeping his sword
FIRST LORD. If your lordship find him not a hiding, hold me no more
FIRST LORD. It is the Count Rousillon, my good lord,
FIRST LORD. It were fit you knew him; lest, reposing too far in his
FIRST LORD. Let it be forbid, sir! So should I be a great deal
FIRST LORD. Merely our own traitors. And as in the common course of
FIRST LORD. None better than to let him fetch off his drum, which
FIRST LORD. Not till after midnight; for he is dieted to his hour.
FIRST LORD. O my sweet lord, that you will stay behind us!
FIRST LORD. O, for the love of laughter, let him fetch his drum; he
FIRST LORD. So 'tis reported, sir.
FIRST LORD. That was not to be blam'd in the command of the
FIRST LORD. There's honour in the theft.
FIRST LORD. They cannot be too sweet for the King's tartness.
FIRST LORD. This is your devoted friend, sir, the manifold
FIRST LORD. We shall, noble Captain.
FIRST LORD. We will not meddle with him till he come; for his
FIRST LORD. We'll make you some sport with the fox ere we case him.
FIRST LORD. What will Count Rousillon do then? Will he travel
FIRST LORD. Why does he ask him of me?
FIRST LORD. With all my heart, my lord.                 Exeunt
FIRST LORD. You do not know him, my lord, as we do. Certain it is
FIRST SERVANT. But it raises the greater war between him and his
FIRST SERVANT. Here they'll be, man. Some o' their plants are
FIRST SERVANT. They have made him drink alms-drink.
FIRST SERVANT. To be call'd into a huge sphere, and not to be seen
FIRST SOLDIER.                                         [Reads]
FIRST SOLDIER.  [Reads]  'Dian, the Count's a fool, and full of
FIRST SOLDIER. 'Demand of him of what strength they are a-foot.'
FIRST SOLDIER. 'First demand of him how many horse the Duke is
FIRST SOLDIER. Acordo linta.
FIRST SOLDIER. And you. Good night, good night.
FIRST SOLDIER. Ay; is't not strange?
FIRST SOLDIER. Bosko chimurcho.
FIRST SOLDIER. Boskos thromuldo boskos.
FIRST SOLDIER. Boskos vauvado. I understand thee, and can speak thy
FIRST SOLDIER. Brother, good night. To-morrow is the day.
FIRST SOLDIER. But wilt thou faithfully?
FIRST SOLDIER. Do you know this Captain Dumain?
FIRST SOLDIER. E'en such as you speak to me.
FIRST SOLDIER. Follow the noise so far as we have quarter;
FIRST SOLDIER. Good captain, let me be th' interpreter.
FIRST SOLDIER. He calls for the tortures. What will you say without
FIRST SOLDIER. Here 'tis; here's a paper. Shall I read it to you?
FIRST SOLDIER. His qualities being at this poor price, I need not
FIRST SOLDIER. I perceive, sir, by our General's looks we shall be
FIRST SOLDIER. I'll whisper with the General, and know his
FIRST SOLDIER. If you could find out a country where but women were
FIRST SOLDIER. If your life be saved, will you undertake to betray
FIRST SOLDIER. Marry, we'll search.
FIRST SOLDIER. Nay, I'll read it first by your favour.
FIRST SOLDIER. No, sir, I warrant you.
FIRST SOLDIER. Nothing. What news?
FIRST SOLDIER. O, pray, pray, pray! Manka revania dulche.
FIRST SOLDIER. Shall I set down your answer so?
FIRST SOLDIER. That shall you, and take your leave of all your
FIRST SOLDIER. The General is content to spare thee yet;
FIRST SOLDIER. There is no remedy, sir, but you must die.
FIRST SOLDIER. We'll see what may be done, so you confess freely;
FIRST SOLDIER. Well, is this captain in the Duke of Florence's
FIRST SOLDIER. Well, sir, good night.
FIRST SOLDIER. Well, that's set down.
FIRST SOLDIER. Well, that's set down.
FIRST SOLDIER. Well, that's set down. 'You shall demand of him
FIRST SOLDIER. What is his reputation with the Duke?
FIRST SOLDIER. What say you to his expertness in war?
FIRST SOLDIER. What's he?
FIRST SOLDIER. What's his brother, the other Captain Dumain?
FIRST SOLDIER. YOU are a merciful general. Our General bids you
FIRST SOLDIER. You are undone, Captain, all but your scarf; that
FIRST WATCH. Go we to him.
FIRST WATCH. Hear you, sir?
FIRST WATCH. Let's speak to him.
FIRST WATCH. Stand close and list him.
FIRST WATCH. This last day was
FIRST give me trust the Count he is my husband,
FOURTH LORD. Fair one, I think not so.
FOURTH SOLDIER. No.
FOURTH SOLDIER. Under the earth.
Fairing the foul with art's false borrowed face,
Feeding on that which doth preserve the ill,
For I have sworn deep oaths of thy deep kindness:
For all my vows are oaths but to misuse thee:
For compound sweet; forgoing simple savour,
For if I should despair I should grow mad,
For if you were by my unkindness shaken
For men discased, but I my mistress' thrall,
For nothing hold me, so it please thee hold,
For since each hand hath put on nature's power,
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me;
For that which longer nurseth the disease,
For they in thee a thousand errors note,
For thou art covetous, and he is kind,
For thou betraying me, I do betray
For thy records, and what we see doth lie,
For well thou know'st to my dear doting heart
For why should others' false adulterate eyes
Forgot upon your dearest love to call,
From heaven to hell is flown away.
Full charactered with lasting memory,
GALLUS,        "    "   "
GENTLEMAN. And you.
GENTLEMAN. Gracious sovereign,
GENTLEMAN. I have been sometimes there.
GENTLEMAN. I shall, my liege.                 Exit GENTLEMAN
GENTLEMAN. Marry, as I take it, to Rousillon;
GENTLEMAN. Not indeed.
GENTLEMAN. The King's not here.
GENTLEMAN. This I'll do for you.
GENTLEMAN. What's your will?
Give salutation to my sportive blood?
Growing a bath and healthful remedy,
Grows fairer than at first, more strong, far greater.
HELENA, a gentlewoman protected by the Countess
HELENA.  [Reads]  'Till I have no wife, I have nothing in France.'
HELENA.  [To BERTRAM]  I dare not say I take you; but I give
HELENA. 'Till I have no wife, I have nothing in France.'
HELENA. All's Well That Ends Well yet,
HELENA. And ever shall
HELENA. And no.
HELENA. And you shall find yourself to be well thank'd,
HELENA. And you, monarch!
HELENA. Ay, madam, knowingly.
HELENA. Ay, madam.
HELENA. Ay, my good lord.
HELENA. Ay, surely, mere the truth; I know his lady.
HELENA. Ay. You have some stain of soldier in you; let me ask you a
HELENA. Be not afraid that I your hand should take;
HELENA. Bless our poor virginity from underminers and blowers-up!
HELENA. But by the ear, that hears most nobly of him;
HELENA. But he assails; and our virginity, though valiant in the
HELENA. But this exceeding posting day and night
HELENA. But will you make it even?
HELENA. Do not you love him, madam?
HELENA. Gentlemen,
HELENA. Good madam, pardon me.
HELENA. His name, I pray you.
HELENA. How do you mean?
HELENA. How might one do, sir, to lose it to her own liking?
HELENA. I am a simple maid, and therein wealthiest
HELENA. I am not worthy of the wealth I owe,
HELENA. I did so.
HELENA. I do affect a sorrow indeed, but I have it too.
HELENA. I do beseech you, sir,
HELENA. I do presume, sir, that you are not fall'n
HELENA. I especially think, under Mars.
HELENA. I have, sir, as I was commanded from you,
HELENA. I hope, sir, I have your good will to have mine own good
HELENA. I humbly thank you.
HELENA. I like him well.
HELENA. I pray you.                              Exit PAROLLES
HELENA. I shall not break your bidding, good my lord.
HELENA. I thank you, and will stay upon your leisure.
HELENA. I will stand for 't a little, though therefore I die a
HELENA. I will tell truth; by grace itself I swear.
HELENA. If I break time, or flinch in property
HELENA. If it appear not plain, and prove untrue,
HELENA. If she be very well, what does she ail that she's not very
HELENA. If you misdoubt me that I am not she,
HELENA. In everything I wait upon his will.
HELENA. Inspired merit so by breath is barr'd.
HELENA. Is it yourself?
HELENA. Is this the way?
HELENA. Look on this letter, madam; here's my passport.
HELENA. Madam, I had.
HELENA. Madam, my lord is gone, for ever gone.
HELENA. Mine honourable mistress.
HELENA. Monsieur Parolles, you were born under a charitable star.
HELENA. My duty then shall pay me for my pains.
HELENA. My lord your son made me to think of this,
HELENA. My mother greets me kindly; is she well?
HELENA. My wish receive,
HELENA. No, my good lord;
HELENA. Nor would I wish you.
HELENA. Nor you, mistress,
HELENA. Not here, sir?
HELENA. Not my virginity yet.
HELENA. Now, Dian, from thy altar do I fly,
HELENA. O, I believe with him,
HELENA. O, my good lord, when I was like this maid,
HELENA. O, were that all! I think not on my father;
HELENA. Our remedies oft in ourselves do lie,
HELENA. Pardon, madam.
HELENA. Perchance he's hurt i' th' battle.
HELENA. Pray, sir, your pardon.
HELENA. Sir, I can nothing say
HELENA. Sir, I have seen you in the court of France.
HELENA. So is running away, when fear proposes the safety: but the
HELENA. Something; and scarce so much; nothing, indeed.
HELENA. Take this purse of gold,
HELENA. Tax of impudence,
HELENA. Thanks, sir; all the rest is mute.
HELENA. That I am not.
HELENA. That I wish well. 'Tis pity-
HELENA. That it will please you
HELENA. That wishing well had not a body in't
HELENA. That you are well restor'd, my lord, I'm glad.
HELENA. That you may well perceive I have not wrong'd you!
HELENA. The greatest Grace lending grace.
HELENA. The honour, sir, that flames in your fair eyes,
HELENA. The rather will I spare my praises towards him;
HELENA. The wars hath so kept you under that you must needs be born
HELENA. Then I confess,
HELENA. Then shalt thou give me with thy kingly hand
HELENA. There's something in't
HELENA. To Saint Jaques le Grand.
HELENA. To each of you one fair and virtuous mistress
HELENA. What I can do can do no hurt to try,
HELENA. What is your pleasure, madam?
HELENA. What more commands he?
HELENA. What two things?
HELENA. What's his else?
HELENA. What's his name?
HELENA. When he was retrograde, I think, rather.
HELENA. Which is he?
HELENA. Which is the Frenchman?
HELENA. Why then to-night
HELENA. Yet, I pray you:
HELENA. You are my mother, madam; would you were-
HELENA. You are too young, too happy, and too good,
HELENA. You go so much backward when you fight.
HELENA. You see it lawful then. It is no more
HELENA. Your pardon, noble mistress.
Had, having, and in quest, to have extreme,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving,
Hath left me, and I desperate now approve,
Have I not seen dwellers on form and favour
Have faculty by nature to subsist,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
He is contented thy poor drudge to be,
He learned but surety-like to write for me,
Her eyes so suited, and they mourners seem,
Her pretty looks have been mine enemies,
How can it? O how can love's eye be true,
How have mine eyes out of their spheres been fitted
How oft when thou, my music, music play'st,
I do believe her though I know she lies,
I grant I never saw a goddess go,
I guess one angel in another's hell.
I have seen roses damasked, red and white,
I love to hear her speak, yet well I know,
I may be straight though they themselves be bevel;
I sick withal the help of bath desired,
IRAS,       "      "      "     "
IRAS. Am I not an inch of fortune better than she?
IRAS. Amen. Dear goddess, hear that prayer of the people! For, as
IRAS. But how, but how? Give me particulars.
IRAS. Do, most dear Queen.
IRAS. Go to him, madam, speak to him.
IRAS. Go, you wild bedfellow, you cannot soothsay.
IRAS. Madam, O good Empress!
IRAS. No, you shall paint when you are old.
IRAS. Not in my husband's nose.
IRAS. There's a palm presages chastity, if nothing else.
If I might teach thee wit better it were,
If Nature (sovereign mistress over wrack)
If eyes corrupt by over-partial looks,
If hairs be wires, black wires grow on her head:
If it be not, then love doth well denote,
If my dear love were but the child of state,
If snow be white, why then her breasts are dun:
If that be fair whereon my false eyes dote,
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
In a cold valley-fountain of that ground:
In act thy bed-vow broke and new faith torn,
In faith I do not love thee with mine eyes,
In loving thee thou know'st I am forsworn,
In pursuit of the thing she would have stay:
In the distraction of this madding fever!
In the old age black was not counted fair,
In things of great receipt with case we prove,
In vowing new hate after new love bearing:
Is lust in action, and till action, lust
Is more than my o'erpressed defence can bide?
Is perjured, murd'rous, bloody full of blame,
Is't not enough to torture me alone,
It fears not policy that heretic,
It is the star to every wand'ring bark,
It might for Fortune's bastard be unfathered,
It suffers not in smiling pomp, nor falls
KING OF FRANCE
KING.  [Reads the letter]  'Upon his many protestations to marry me
KING. 'Tis only title thou disdain'st in her, the which
KING. All is whole;
KING. Art thou so confident? Within what space
KING. As thou art a knave and no knave.
KING. Ay, by my sceptre and my hopes of heaven.
KING. But wilt thou not speak all thou know'st?
KING. Come hither, Count; do you know these women?
KING. Come, come, to th' purpose. Did he love this woman?
KING. Farewell, young lords; these war-like principles
KING. Farewell.  [To ATTENDANTS]  Come hither to me.
KING. Find him, and bring him hither.        Exit an ATTENDANT
KING. Go, call before me all the lords in court.
KING. Good fortune and the favour of the King
KING. He hath arm'd our answer,
KING. Here is my hand; the premises observ'd,
KING. How is that?
KING. How, I pray you?
KING. I am not a day of season,
KING. I am wrapp'd in dismal thinkings.
KING. I cannot give thee less, to be call'd grateful.
KING. I fill a place, I know't. How long is't, Count,
KING. I knew him.
KING. I must not hear thee. Fare thee well, kind maid;
KING. I think thee now some common customer.
KING. I wonder, sir, sith wives are monsters to you.
KING. I would I had that corporal soundness now,
KING. I would I had; so I had broke thy pate,
KING. I'll fee thee to stand up.
KING. If he were living, I would try him yet-
KING. If it were yours by none of all these ways,
KING. Is there no exorcist
KING. Know you this ring? This ring was his of late.
KING. Know'st thou not, Bertram,
KING. Let us from point to point this story know,
KING. Make choice and see:
KING. Make thy demand.
KING. Methinks in thee some blessed spirit doth speak
KING. Methought you said
KING. My honour'd lady,
KING. My honour's at the stake; which to defeat,
KING. Nay, 'tis most credible. We here receive it,
KING. No, no, it cannot be; and yet my heart
KING. No.
KING. Now, fair one, does your business follow us?
KING. Now, good Lafeu,
KING. Now, pray you, let me see it; for mine eye,
KING. Peruse them well.
KING. Plutus himself,
KING. Praising what is lost
KING. She does abuse our ears; to prison with her.
KING. She hath that ring of yours.
KING. Sir, for my thoughts, you have them ill to friend
KING. Take her away, I do not like her now;
KING. Take her away.
KING. Take her by the hand,
KING. Tell me, sirrah-but tell me true I charge you,
KING. The Florentines and Senoys are by th' ears;
KING. The King's a beggar, now the play is done.
KING. The heavens have thought well on thee, Lafeu,
KING. The story, then, goes false you threw it him
KING. Then shall we have a match. I have letters sent me
KING. This haste hath wings indeed.
KING. This ring was mine, I gave it his first wife.
KING. Those girls of Italy, take heed of them;
KING. Thou hast spoken all already, unless thou canst say they are
KING. Thou know'st she has rais'd me from my sickly bed.
KING. Thou speak'st it falsely, as I love mine honour;
KING. Thou wrong'st thyself, if thou shouldst strive to choose.
KING. Thus he his special nothing ever prologues.
KING. Upon thy certainty and confidence
KING. We lost a jewel of her, and our esteem
KING. We thank you, maiden;
KING. Well excus'd.
KING. What her is this?
KING. What ring was yours, I pray you?
KING. What say'st thou to her?
KING. What says he to your daughter? Have you spoke?
KING. What's he comes here?
KING. Where did you buy it? Or who gave it you?
KING. Where did you find it then?
KING. Wherefore hast thou accus'd him all this while?
KING. Who lent it you?
KING. Why, then, young Bertram, take her; she's thy wife.
KING. Would I were with him! He would always say-
KING. You boggle shrewdly; every feather starts you.
KING. Youth, thou bear'st thy father's face;
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
LAFEU, an old lord
LAFEU.  [Kneeling]  Pardon, my lord, for me and for my tidings.
LAFEU.  [Reading the ballad title]  'A Showing of a Heavenly
LAFEU.  [To BERTRAM]  Your reputation comes too short for
LAFEU. 'Fore God, I think so.
LAFEU. 'Twas a good lady, 'twas a good lady. We may pick a thousand
LAFEU. A fistula, my lord.
LAFEU. A good traveller is something at the latter end of a dinner;
LAFEU. A scar nobly got, or a noble scar, is a good liv'ry of
LAFEU. A shrewd knave, and an unhappy.
LAFEU. All that he is hath reference to your Highness.
LAFEU. And shall do so ever, though I took him at's prayers.
LAFEU. And what would you have me to do? 'Tis too late to pare her
LAFEU. Are you companion to the Count Rousillon?
LAFEU. Ay, with all my heart; and thou art worthy of it.
LAFEU. Ay; is it not a language I speak?
LAFEU. But I hope your lordship thinks not him a soldier.
LAFEU. Come on, my son, in whom my house's name
LAFEU. Do all they deny her? An they were sons of mine I'd have
LAFEU. Do not plunge thyself too far in anger, lest thou hasten thy
LAFEU. Do you hear, monsieur? A word with you.
LAFEU. Ev'n as soon as thou canst, for thou hast to pull at a smack
LAFEU. Farewell, pretty lady; you must hold the credit of your
LAFEU. Generally thankful.
LAFEU. Go thy ways, I begin to be aweary of thee; and I tell thee
LAFEU. Go to, sir; you were beaten in Italy for picking a kernel
LAFEU. Good faith, across!
LAFEU. He cannot want the best
LAFEU. He hath abandon'd his physicians, madam; under whose
LAFEU. He looks well on 't.
LAFEU. He was excellent indeed, madam; the King very lately spoke
LAFEU. He's a good drum, my lord, but a naughty orator.
LAFEU. His Highness comes post from Marseilles, of as able body as
LAFEU. Hold thee, there's my purse. I give thee not this to suggest
LAFEU. How call'd you the man you speak of, madam?
LAFEU. How understand we that?
LAFEU. I am sure I saw her wear it.
LAFEU. I did think thee, for two ordinaries, to be a pretty wise
LAFEU. I had rather be in this choice than throw ames-ace for my
LAFEU. I have then sinn'd against his experience and transgress'd
LAFEU. I like him well; 'tis not amiss. And I was about to tell
LAFEU. I may truly say it is a novelty to the world.
LAFEU. I must tell thee, sirrah, I write man; to which title age
LAFEU. I saw the man to-day, if man he be.
LAFEU. I will buy me a son-in-law in a fair, and toll for this.
LAFEU. I will subscribe for thee; thou art both knave and fool.
LAFEU. I would it were hell pains for thy sake, and my poor doing
LAFEU. I would it were not notorious. Was this gentlewoman the
LAFEU. I'd give bay Curtal and his furniture
LAFEU. In a most weak-
LAFEU. Lady, of that I have made a bold charter; but, I thank my
LAFEU. Let us go see your son, I pray you;
LAFEU. Lustig, as the Dutchman says. I'll like a maid the better,
LAFEU. Madam, I was thinking with what manners I might safely be
LAFEU. Mine eyes smell onions; I shall weep anon. [To PAROLLES]
LAFEU. Moderate lamentation is the right of the dead: excessive
LAFEU. Nay, I'll fit you,
LAFEU. Nay, come your ways.
LAFEU. Nay, come your ways;
LAFEU. No, no, no, son was misled with a snipt-taffeta fellow
LAFEU. No, no, no.
LAFEU. Not to be help'd-
LAFEU. O, I know him well. Ay, sir; he, sir, 's a good workman, a
LAFEU. O, will you eat
LAFEU. Of all the learned and authentic fellows-
LAFEU. Out upon thee, knave! Dost thou put upon me at once both the
LAFEU. Pray you, sir, who's his tailor?
LAFEU. Sirrah, your lord and master's married; there's news for
LAFEU. So you were a knave at his service, indeed.
LAFEU. That gave him out incurable-
LAFEU. The devil it is that's thy master. Why dost thou garter up
LAFEU. Then here's a man stands that has brought his pardon.
LAFEU. Then my dial goes not true; I took this lark for a bunting.
LAFEU. There's one grape yet; I am sure thy father drunk wine-but
LAFEU. These boys are boys of ice; they'll none have her.
LAFEU. They are not sallet-herbs, you knave; they are nose-herbs.
LAFEU. They say miracles are past; and we have our philosophical
LAFEU. This I must say-
LAFEU. This woman's an easy glove, my lord; she goes of and on at
LAFEU. To be relinquish'd of the artists-
LAFEU. To what is count's man: count's master is of another style.
LAFEU. Uncertain life and sure death.
LAFEU. Very hand of heaven.
LAFEU. Was I, in sooth? And I was the first that lost thee.
LAFEU. What prince is that?
LAFEU. Whether dost thou profess thyself-a knave or a fool?
LAFEU. Who's that? A Frenchman?
LAFEU. Who? God?
LAFEU. Why, Doctor She! My lord, there's one arriv'd,
LAFEU. Why, your dolphin is not lustier. 'Fore me, I speak in
LAFEU. Yes, good faith, ev'ry dram of it; and I will not bate thee
LAFEU. You beg a single penny more; come, you shall ha't; save your
LAFEU. You beg more than word then. Cox my passion! give me your
LAFEU. You have it from his own deliverance.
LAFEU. You have made shift to run into 't, boots and spurs and all,
LAFEU. You shall find of the King a husband, madam; you, sir, a
LAFEU. Your commendations, madam, get from her tears.
LAFEU. Your distinction?
LAFEU. Your lord and master did well to make his recantation.
LAVACHE, a clown and Servant to the Countess of Rousillon
LEPIDUS. 'Tis a strange serpent.
LEPIDUS. 'Tis noble spoken.
LEPIDUS. 'Tis not a time
LEPIDUS. 'Tis pity of him.
LEPIDUS. Be pleas'd to tell us-
LEPIDUS. But small to greater matters must give way.
LEPIDUS. Farewell, my lord. What you shall know meantime
LEPIDUS. Farewell.                                      Exeunt
LEPIDUS. Good Enobarbus, 'tis a worthy deed,
LEPIDUS. Happily, amen!
LEPIDUS. Here's more news.
LEPIDUS. I am not so well as I should be, but I'll ne'er out.
LEPIDUS. I must not think there are
LEPIDUS. Let all the number of the stars give light
LEPIDUS. Nay, certainly, I have heard the Ptolemies' pyramises are
LEPIDUS. Noble Antony,
LEPIDUS. Noble friends,
LEPIDUS. Soft, Caesar!
LEPIDUS. Till I shall see you in your soldier's dress,
LEPIDUS. Time calls upon's.
LEPIDUS. To-morrow, Caesar,
LEPIDUS. Trouble yourselves no further. Pray you hasten
LEPIDUS. Well met here.
LEPIDUS. What colour is it of?
LEPIDUS. What manner o' thing is your crocodile?
LEPIDUS. Worthily spoken, Maecenas.
LEPIDUS. Y'have strange serpents there.
LEPIDUS. Your serpent of Egypt is bred now of your mud by the
LEPIDUS. Your speech is passion;
LEPIDUS. Your way is shorter;
Laid by his side his heart-inflaming brand,
Lest guilty of my faults thy sweet self prove.
Lest sorrow lend me words and words express,
Let me excuse thee, ah my love well knows,
Like as to make our appetite more keen
Lo as a careful huswife runs to catch,
Looking with pretty ruth upon my pain.
Lords, Officers, Soldiers, etc., French and Florentine
Lose all, and more by paying too much rent
Love alters not with his brief hours and weeks,
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Love is too young to know what conscience is,
Love's eye is not so true as all men's: no,
Love's not Time's fool, though rosy lips and cheeks
M. AEMILIUS LEPIDUS,     "
MAECENAS,   friend to Caesar
MAECENAS. Caesar must think
MAECENAS. Eight wild boars roasted whole at a breakfast, and but
MAECENAS. He'll never yield to that.
MAECENAS. If beauty, wisdom, modesty, can settle
MAECENAS. If it might please you to enforce no further
MAECENAS. Let Rome be thus
MAECENAS. Now Antony must leave her utterly.
MAECENAS. She's a most triumphant lady, if report be square to her.
MAECENAS. This in the public eye?
MAECENAS. We have cause to be glad that matters are so well
MAECENAS. We shall,
MAECENAS. Welcome from Egypt, sir.
MAECENAS. Welcome, dear madam.
MARDIAN,      "     "      "
MARDIAN. As well as I can, madam.
MARDIAN. Dead.
MARDIAN. Death of one person can be paid but once,
MARDIAN. No, Antony;
MARDIAN. Not in deed, madam; for I can do nothing
MARDIAN. What's your Highness' pleasure?
MARDIAN. Yes, gracious madam.
MARIANA, neighbour and friend to the Widow
MARIANA. And your courtesy, for a ring-carrier!
MARIANA. Come, let's return again, and suffice ourselves with the
MARIANA. He's shrewdly vex'd at something.
MARIANA. I know that knave, hang him! one Parolles; a filthy
MARIANA. The gods forbid else!
MARK ANTONY,         Triumvirs
MENAS,      friend to Pompey
MENAS. All men's faces are true, whatsome'er their hands are.
MENAS. And thus it may be. Come, sir, will you aboard? I have a
MENAS. And you by land.
MENAS. And you by land.
MENAS. But entertain it,
MENAS. Caesar and Lepidus
MENAS. Come, let's away.                                Exeunt
MENAS. Come.
MENAS. Enobarbus, welcome!
MENAS. For my part, I am sorry it is turn'd to a drinking.
MENAS. From Silvius, sir.
MENAS. Hoo! Noble Captain, come.                        Exeunt
MENAS. I cannot hope
MENAS. I have ever held my cap off to thy fortunes.
MENAS. I think the policy of that purpose made more in the marriage
MENAS. No slander: they steal hearts.
MENAS. No, Pompey, I have kept me from the cup.
MENAS. No, to my cabin.
MENAS. Nor what I have done by water.
MENAS. Pray ye, sir?
MENAS. The third part, then, is drunk. Would it were all,
MENAS. Then is Caesar and he for ever knit together.
MENAS. These three world-sharers, these competitors,
MENAS. True, sir; she was the wife of Caius Marcellus.
MENAS. We have, sir.
MENAS. Who would not have his wife so?
MENAS. Why?
MENAS. Wilt thou be lord of all the world?
MENAS. Wilt thou be lord of the whole world? That's twice.
MENAS. Y'have said, sir. We look'd not for Mark Antony here. Pray
MENAS. [Aside to POMPEY] Forsake thy seat, I do beseech thee,
MENAS. [Aside to POMPEY] If for the sake of merit thou wilt hear
MENAS. [Aside to POMPEY] Pompey, a word.
MENAS. [Aside] For this,
MENAS. [Aside] Thy father, Pompey, would ne'er have made this
MENECRATES,    "    "    "
MENECRATES. Know, worthy Pompey,
MENECRATES. We, ignorant of ourselves,
MESSENGER. And I do think she's thirty.
MESSENGER. And friends with Caesar.
MESSENGER. Antony
MESSENGER. At your noble pleasure.                        Exit
MESSENGER. Ay, dread Queen.
MESSENGER. Ay.
MESSENGER. Brown, madam; and her forehead
MESSENGER. But yet, madam-
MESSENGER. Caesar and he are greater friends than ever.
MESSENGER. Caesar, I bring thee word
MESSENGER. First, madam, he is well.
MESSENGER. For the best turn i' th' bed.
MESSENGER. Free, madam! No; I made no such report.
MESSENGER. Fulvia thy wife first came into the field.
MESSENGER. Good madam, hear me.
MESSENGER. Good madam, patience.
MESSENGER. Gracious madam,
MESSENGER. He's married, madam.
MESSENGER. He's married, madam.
MESSENGER. I crave your Highness' pardon.
MESSENGER. I have done my duty.
MESSENGER. Labienus-
MESSENGER. Madam,
MESSENGER. Madam, I heard her speak: she is low-voic'd.
MESSENGER. Madam, he's married to Octavia.
MESSENGER. Madam, he's well.
MESSENGER. Madam, in Rome
MESSENGER. Madam, madam-
MESSENGER. Most gracious Majesty!
MESSENGER. Nay, then I'll run.
MESSENGER. News, my good lord, from Rome.
MESSENGER. O, my lord!
MESSENGER. Or I have no observance.
MESSENGER. Round even to faultiness.
MESSENGER. She creeps.
MESSENGER. She is not, madam.
MESSENGER. Should I lie, madam?
MESSENGER. Take no offence that I would not offend you;
MESSENGER. The Emperor calls Canidius.
MESSENGER. The nature of bad news infects the teller.
MESSENGER. The news is true, my lord: he is descried;
MESSENGER. Thy biddings have been done; and every hour,
MESSENGER. Will't please you hear me?
Mad in pursuit and in possession so,
Mad slanderers by mad ears believed be.
Made more or less by thy continual haste:
Making dead wood more blest than living lips,
May time disgrace, and wretched minutes kill.
Me from my self thy cruel eye hath taken,
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
My deepest sense, how hard true sorrow hits,
My love is as a fever longing still,
My mistress when she walks treads on the ground.
My mistress' eyes are nothing like the sun,
My nobler part to my gross body's treason,
My reason the physician to my love,
My self I'll forfeit, so that other mine,
My sinful earth these rebel powers array,
My soul doth tell my body that he may,
My thoughts and my discourse as mad men's are,
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain:
Nay if thou lour'st on me do I not spend
Needs must I under my transgression bow,
No it was builded far from accident,
No marvel then though I mistake my view,
No news but health from their physicians know.
No! Time, thou shalt not boast that I do change,
No, I am that I am, and they that level
No, let me be obsequious in thy heart,
Nor are mine cars with thy tongue's tune delighted,
Nor need I tallies thy dear love to score,
Nor taste, nor smell, desire to be invited
Nor tender feeling to base touches prone,
Nor that full star that ushers in the even
Not by our feeling, but by others' seeing.
Not once vouchsafe to hide my will in thine?
Not prizing her poor infant's discontent;
Not wond'ring at the present, nor the past,
Now this ill-wresting world is grown so bad,
O benefit of ill, now I find true
O but with mine, compare thou thine own state,
O call not me to justify the wrong,
O from what power hast thou this powerful might,
O let it then as well beseem thy heart
O love's best habit is in seeming trust,
O me! what eyes hath love put in my head,
O no, it is an ever-fixed mark
O that our night of woe might have remembered
O thou my lovely boy who in thy power,
O though I love what others do abhor,
O'er whom thy fingers walk with gentle gait,
OCTAVIA, sister to Caesar and wife to Antony
OCTAVIA. All which time
OCTAVIA. Ay me most wretched,
OCTAVIA. Do not say so, my lord.
OCTAVIA. Good my lord,
OCTAVIA. Good night, sir.
OCTAVIA. Hail, Caesar, and my lord! hail, most dear Caesar!
OCTAVIA. I'll tell you in your ear.
OCTAVIA. Is it so, sir?
OCTAVIA. My lord, in Athens.
OCTAVIA. My noble brother!
OCTAVIA. O my good lord,
OCTAVIA. Sir, look well to my husband's house; and-
OCTAVIA. Thanks to my lord.
OCTAVIA. You have not call'd me so, nor have you cause.
OCTAVIUS CAESAR,         "
Oaths of thy love, thy truth, thy constancy,
Of him, my self, and thee I am forsaken,
Of thee, thy record never can be missed:
Officers, Soldiers, Messengers, and Attendants
On both sides thus is simple truth suppressed:
On purpose laid to make the taker mad.
On whom frown'st thou that I do fawn upon,
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
One on another's neck do witness bear
One will of mine to make thy large will more.
Or at the least, so long as brain and heart
Or bends with the remover to remove.
Or if it do, not from those lips of thine,
Or if it were it bore not beauty's name:
Or if they have, where is my judgment fled,
Or laid great bases for eternity,
Or made them swear against the thing they see.
Or mine eyes seeing this, say this is not
Or on my frailties why are frailer spies,
Our dates are brief, and therefore we admire,
PAGE. Monsieur Parolles, my lord calls for you.      Exit PAGE
PAROLLES, a follower of Bertram
PAROLLES.  [Aside]  I'll no more drumming. A plague of all drums!
PAROLLES.  [To BERTRAM]  These things shall be done, sir.
PAROLLES. 'Five or six thousand horse' I said-I will say true- 'or
PAROLLES. 'Poor rogues' I pray you say.
PAROLLES. 'Tis not his fault, the spark.
PAROLLES. A drum now of the enemy's!
PAROLLES. A good knave, i' faith, and well fed.
PAROLLES. A most harsh one, and not to be understood without bloody
PAROLLES. An idle lord, I swear.
PAROLLES. An thy mind stand to 't, boy, steal away bravely.
PAROLLES. And debile minister, great power, great transcendence;
PAROLLES. And truly, as I hope to live.
PAROLLES. Are you meditating on virginity?
PAROLLES. As you'll have her.
PAROLLES. Away! th'art a knave.
PAROLLES. Ay, and the Captain of his Horse, Count Rousillon.
PAROLLES. Ay, sir.
PAROLLES. Ay, that would be known. To th' wars, my boy, to th'
PAROLLES. Ay; so I say.
PAROLLES. Bless you, my fortunate lady!
PAROLLES. Bravely, coragio!                             Exeunt
PAROLLES. But a drum! Is't but a drum? A drum so lost! There was
PAROLLES. By my troth, sir, if I were to live this present hour, I
PAROLLES. By the hand of a soldier, I will undertake it.
PAROLLES. Commit it, Count.
PAROLLES. Do; I'll take the sacrament on 't, how and which way you
PAROLLES. E'en a crow o' th' same nest; not altogether so great as
PAROLLES. Faith, I know more than I'll speak.
PAROLLES. Faith, sir, has led the drum before the English
PAROLLES. Faith, sir, he did love her; but how?
PAROLLES. Five or six thousand; but very weak and unserviceable.
PAROLLES. France is a dog-hole, and it no more merits
PAROLLES. Go to, thou art a witty fool; I have found thee.
PAROLLES. Good Monsieur Lavache, give my Lord Lafeu this letter. I
PAROLLES. Good, very, good, it is so then. Good, very good; let it
PAROLLES. Hadst thou not the privilege of antiquity upon thee-
PAROLLES. He did love her, sir, as a gentleman loves a woman.
PAROLLES. He lov'd her, sir, and lov'd her not.
PAROLLES. He will steal, sir, an egg out of a cloister; for rapes
PAROLLES. I am a poor man, and at your Majesty's command.
PAROLLES. I am so full of business I cannot answer thee acutely. I
PAROLLES. I beseech you, let me answer to the particular of the
PAROLLES. I beseech your honour to hear me one single word.
PAROLLES. I do not know if it be it or no.
PAROLLES. I have not, my lord, deserv'd it.
PAROLLES. I humbly thank you, sir. A truth's a truth-the rogues are
PAROLLES. I know him: 'a was a botcher's prentice in Paris, from
PAROLLES. I know not how I have deserved to run into my lord's
PAROLLES. I know not what the success will be, my lord, but the
PAROLLES. I know you are the Muskos' regiment,
PAROLLES. I love not many words.                          Exit
PAROLLES. I most unfeignedly beseech your lordship to make some
PAROLLES. I praise God for you.                         Exeunt
PAROLLES. I shall report it so.
PAROLLES. I will confess what I know without constraint; if ye
PAROLLES. I would I had any drum of the enemy's; I would swear I
PAROLLES. I would have said it; you say well. Here comes the King.
PAROLLES. I would the cutting of my garments would serve the turn,
PAROLLES. I'll about it this evening; and I will presently pen
PAROLLES. If I do not, damn me.
PAROLLES. In good sadness, I do not know; either it is there or it
PAROLLES. It is indeed. If you will have it in showing, you shall
PAROLLES. It is to be recovered. But that the merit of service is
PAROLLES. It lies in you, my lord, to bring me in some grace, for
PAROLLES. It might have been recovered.
PAROLLES. Just; you say well; so would I have said.
PAROLLES. Keep him out.
PAROLLES. Let me see. Marry, ill to like him that ne'er it likes.
PAROLLES. Little Helen, farewell; if I can remember thee, I will
PAROLLES. Lose our drum! well.
PAROLLES. Mars dote on you for his novices!       Exeunt LORDS
PAROLLES. Mort du vinaigre! Is not this Helen?
PAROLLES. Most admirable! I have seen those wars.
PAROLLES. My life, sir, in any case! Not that I am afraid to die,
PAROLLES. My lord, I am a man whom Fortune hath cruelly scratch'd.
PAROLLES. My lord, you do me most insupportable vexation.
PAROLLES. My lord, you give me most egregious indignity.
PAROLLES. My meaning in't, I protest, was very honest in the behalf
PAROLLES. My name, my good lord, is Parolles.
PAROLLES. Nay, 'tis strange, 'tis very strange; that is the brief
PAROLLES. Nay, you need not to stop your nose, sir; I spake but by
PAROLLES. No.
PAROLLES. Noble heroes, my sword and yours are kin. Good sparks and
PAROLLES. O Lord, sir, let me live, or let me see my death!
PAROLLES. O my good lord, you were the first that found me.
PAROLLES. O!
PAROLLES. O, let me live,
PAROLLES. O, ransom, ransom! Do not hide mine eyes.
PAROLLES. Or the baring of my beard; and to say it was in
PAROLLES. Or to drown my clothes, and say I was stripp'd.
PAROLLES. Pray you, sir, deliver me this paper.
PAROLLES. Recantation! My Lord! my master!
PAROLLES. Right; as 'twere a man assur'd of a-
PAROLLES. Right; so I say.
PAROLLES. Save you, fair queen!
PAROLLES. She is.
PAROLLES. Sir!
PAROLLES. Sir, for a cardecue he will sell the fee-simple of his
PAROLLES. So I say-both of Galen and Paracelsus.
PAROLLES. So please your Majesty, my master hath been an honourable
PAROLLES. Ten o'clock. Within these three hours 'twill be time
PAROLLES. That is not the Duke's letter, sir; that is an
PAROLLES. That you will take your instant leave o' th' King,
PAROLLES. That's for advantage.
PAROLLES. That's it; I would have said the very same.
PAROLLES. That, having this obtain'd, you presently
PAROLLES. The Duke knows him for no other but a poor officer of
PAROLLES. There is none. Man, setting down before you, will
PAROLLES. There's little can be said in 't; 'tis against the rule
PAROLLES. Thirty fathom.
PAROLLES. This is hard and undeserved measure, my lord.
PAROLLES. Though I swore I leap'd from the window of the citadel-
PAROLLES. To any count; to all counts; to what is man.
PAROLLES. Under Mars, I.
PAROLLES. Upon my knowledge, he is, and lousy.
PAROLLES. Use a more spacious ceremony to the noble lords; you have
PAROLLES. Virginity being blown down, man will quicklier be blown
PAROLLES. Well, I shall be wiser.
PAROLLES. Well, thou hast a son shall take this disgrace off me:
PAROLLES. What I dare too well do, I dare not do.
PAROLLES. What one, i' faith?
PAROLLES. What the devil should move me to undertake the recovery
PAROLLES. What's pity?
PAROLLES. What's the matter, sweetheart?
PAROLLES. What, what, sweetheart?
PAROLLES. When he was predominant.
PAROLLES. Who cannot be crush'd with a plot?
PAROLLES. Why think you so?
PAROLLES. Why under Man?
PAROLLES. Why, 'tis the rarest argument of wonder that hath shot
PAROLLES. Why, I say nothing.
PAROLLES. Why, do you not know him?
PAROLLES. Why, there 'tis; so say I too.
PAROLLES. Why, these balls bound; there's noise in it. 'Tis hard:
PAROLLES. Will this capriccio hold in thee, art sure?
PAROLLES. Worthy fellows; and like to prove most sinewy sword-men.
PAROLLES. Yes, so please your Majesty. I did go between them, as I
PAROLLES. Yet am I thankful. If my heart were great,
PAROLLES. You are too old, sir; let it satisfy you, you are too
PAROLLES. You had my prayers to lead them on; and to keep them on,
PAROLLES. Your pleasure, sir?
PHILO,                 "    "   "
PHILO. Nay, but this dotage of our general's
PHILO. Sir, sometimes when he is not Antony,
POMPEY. Ah, this thou shouldst have done,
POMPEY. At land, indeed,
POMPEY. Come.               Exeunt all but ENOBARBUS and MENAS
POMPEY. Enjoy thy plainness;
POMPEY. Fill till the cup be hid.
POMPEY. Hast thou drunk well?
POMPEY. He dreams. I know they are in Rome together,
POMPEY. How should that be?
POMPEY. I could have given less matter
POMPEY. I have fair meanings, sir.
POMPEY. I hope so, Lepidus. Thus we are agreed.
POMPEY. I know not, Menas,
POMPEY. I know thee now. How far'st thou, soldier?
POMPEY. I shall do well.
POMPEY. I'll try you on the shore.
POMPEY. If the great gods be just, they shall assist
POMPEY. Know, then,
POMPEY. Let me have your hand.
POMPEY. Let me shake thy hand.
POMPEY. Let's ha't, good soldier.
POMPEY. No, Antony, take the lot;
POMPEY. O Antony,
POMPEY. Show me which way.
POMPEY. Sit- and some wine! A health to Lepidus!
POMPEY. Then so much have I heard;
POMPEY. This health to Lepidus!
POMPEY. This is not yet an Alexandrian feast.
POMPEY. Thou hast serv'd me with much faith. What's else to say?-
POMPEY. To you all three,
POMPEY. We'll feast each other ere we part, and let's
POMPEY. Well, I know not
POMPEY. What say'st thou?
POMPEY. What, I pray you?
POMPEY. Where have you this? 'Tis false.
POMPEY. Whiles we are suitors to their throne, decays
POMPEY. You have made me offer
POMPEY. Your hostages I have, so have you mine;
POMPEY. [ Whispers in's ear ] Forbear me till anon-
POMPEY. [Aside to MENAS] Go, hang, sir, hang! Tell me of that!
POMPEY. [Aside to MENAS] I think th'art mad. [Rises and walks
POMPEY. [Aside to MENAS] Say in mine ear; what is't?
PROCULEIUS,    "    "   "
Painting thy outward walls so costly gay?
Past cure I am, now reason is past care,
Past reason hated as a swallowed bait,
Past reason hunted, and no sooner had
Pitiful thrivers in their gazing spent?
Poor soul the centre of my sinful earth,
Prison my heart in thy steel bosom's ward,
Revenge upon my self with present moan?
Robbed others' beds' revenues of their rents.
Root pity in thy heart that when it grows,
SCARUS,                "    "   "
SCARUS. 'Tis easy to't; and there I will attend
SCARUS. For both, my lord.
SCARUS. Gods and goddesses,
SCARUS. I had a wound here that was like a T,
SCARUS. Let us score their backs
SCARUS. O my brave Emperor, this is fought indeed!
SCARUS. On our side like the token'd pestilence,
SCARUS. She once being loof'd,
SCARUS. Swallows have built
SCARUS. The greater cantle of the world is lost
SCARUS. We'll beat'em into bench-holes. I have yet
SECOND ATTENDANT. He stays upon your will.
SECOND GENTLEMAN. 'Tis but the boldness of his hand haply, which
SECOND GENTLEMAN. A servant only, and a gentleman
SECOND GENTLEMAN. Ay, madam, with the swiftest wing of speed.
SECOND GENTLEMAN. Ay, my good lady, he.
SECOND GENTLEMAN. Indeed, good lady,
SECOND GENTLEMAN. Save you, good madam.
SECOND GUARD. Nor I.
SECOND GUARD. The star is fall'n.
SECOND LORD. 'A will betray us all unto ourselves-
SECOND LORD. 'Twould not do.
SECOND LORD. Art not acquainted with him? Knows he not thy voice?
SECOND LORD. As't please your lordship. I'll leave you.   Exit
SECOND LORD. Ay, and the particular confirmations, point from
SECOND LORD. Believe it, my lord, in mine own direct knowledge,
SECOND LORD. Boblibindo chicurmurco.
SECOND LORD. Bring him forth.  [Exeunt SOLDIERS]  Has sat i' th'
SECOND LORD. But what linsey-woolsey has thou to speak to us again?
SECOND LORD. Excellently.
SECOND LORD. Go, tell the Count Rousillon and my brother
SECOND LORD. God save you, noble Captain.
SECOND LORD. Good Captain, will you give me a copy of the sonnet
SECOND LORD. Good my lord,
SECOND LORD. Hardly serve.
SECOND LORD. He can come no other way but by this hedge-corner.
SECOND LORD. He has much worthy blame laid upon him for shaking off
SECOND LORD. He hath out-villain'd villainy so far that the rarity
SECOND LORD. He must think us some band of strangers i' th'
SECOND LORD. He's very near the truth in this.
SECOND LORD. Health, at your bidding, serve your Majesty!
SECOND LORD. His confession is taken, and it shall be read to his
SECOND LORD. How deep?
SECOND LORD. How mightily sometimes we make us comforts of our
SECOND LORD. Hush, hush! Hoodman comes. Portotartarossa.
SECOND LORD. I am your accessary; and so farewell.
SECOND LORD. I begin to love him for this.
SECOND LORD. I have told your lordship already the stocks carry
SECOND LORD. I must go look my twigs; he shall be caught.
SECOND LORD. I perceive, by this demand, you are not altogether
SECOND LORD. I with a troop of Florentines will suddenly surprise
SECOND LORD. If the business be of any difficulty and this morning
SECOND LORD. In the meantime, what hear you of these wars?
SECOND LORD. Is it not meant damnable in us to be trumpeters of our
SECOND LORD. Is it possible he should know what he is, and be that
SECOND LORD. It well may serve
SECOND LORD. Nay, I assure you, a peace concluded.
SECOND LORD. Nay, good my lord, put him to't; let him have his way.
SECOND LORD. Nay, look not so upon me; we shall hear of your
SECOND LORD. No better, if you please.
SECOND LORD. No more than a fish loves water. Is not this a strange
SECOND LORD. None in the world; but return with an invention, and
SECOND LORD. Nothing, but let him have thanks. Demand of him my
SECOND LORD. Now, God delay our rebellion! As we are ourselves,
SECOND LORD. O, for the love of laughter, hinder not the honour of
SECOND LORD. On my life, my lord, a bubble.
SECOND LORD. Oscorbidulchos volivorco.
SECOND LORD. Sir, his wife, some two months since, fled from his
SECOND LORD. Sweet Monsieur Parolles!
SECOND LORD. That approaches apace. I would gladly have him see his
SECOND LORD. The stronger part of it by her own letters, which
SECOND LORD. The web of our life is of a mingled yarn, good and ill
SECOND LORD. They shall be no more than needful there, if they were
SECOND LORD. This is the first truth that e'er thine own tongue was
SECOND LORD. Three great oaths would scarce make that be believed.
SECOND LORD. Throca movousus, cargo, cargo, cargo.
SECOND LORD. Till then I'll keep him dark and safely lock'd.
SECOND LORD. We cannot afford you so.
SECOND LORD. When you have spoken it, 'tis dead, and I am the grave
SECOND LORD. Y'are deceiv'd, my lord; this is Monsieur Parolles,
SECOND LORD. You have not given him his mother's letter?
SECOND LORD. You shall hear one anon.          [Alarum within]
SECOND LORD. You're loved, sir;
SECOND MESSENGER. Fulvia thy wife is dead.
SECOND MESSENGER. In Sicyon.
SECOND SERVANT. As they pinch one another by the disposition, he
SECOND SERVANT. Lepidus is high-colour'd.
SECOND SERVANT. Why, this it is to have a name in great men's
SECOND SOLDIER. 'Tis the god Hercules, whom Antony lov'd,
SECOND SOLDIER. Belike 'tis but a rumour. Good night to you.
SECOND SOLDIER. Captain, I will.
SECOND SOLDIER. Hark!
SECOND SOLDIER. Here we. And if to-morrow
SECOND SOLDIER. How now, masters!
SECOND SOLDIER. It will determine one way. Fare you well.
SECOND SOLDIER. Peace, what noise?
SECOND SOLDIER. So I will, sir.
SECOND SOLDIER. Soldiers, have careful watch.
SECOND WATCH. Awake, sir, awake; speak to us.
SECOND WATCH. Come on, then;
SECOND WATCH. Let's do so. But he sleeps.
SECOND WATCH. Peace!
SECOND WATCH. What man is this?
SELEUCUS,     "     "      "
SERVANT. A messenger from Caesar.
SERVANT. He did ask favour.
SERVANT. He met the Duke in the street, sir; of whom he hath taken
SERVANT. Soundly, my lord.
SERVANT. The gods forbid!
SEXTUS POMPEIUS,         "
SILIUS, an Officer in Ventidius's army
SILIUS. Noble Ventidius,
SILIUS. Thou hast, Ventidius, that
SILIUS. Where is he now?
SOLDIER. A thousand, sir,
SOLDIER. By Hercules, I think I am i' th' right.
SOLDIER. Enobarbus, Antony
SOLDIER. Hadst thou done so,
SOLDIER. Mock not, Enobarbus.
SOLDIER. Most certain.
SOLDIER. O noble Emperor, do not fight by sea;
SOLDIER. Sir,
SOLDIER. The gods make this a happy day to Antony!
SOLDIER. They say one Taurus.
SOLDIER. While he was yet in Rome,
SOLDIER. Who?
SOLDIER. You keep by land
SOLDIERS. Content. 'Tis strange.                        Exeunt
SOLDIERS. [Speaking together] How now!
SOOTHSAYER. Caesar's.
SOOTHSAYER. I have said.
SOOTHSAYER. I make not, but foresee.
SOOTHSAYER. I see it in my motion, have it not in my tongue; but
SOOTHSAYER. If every of your wishes had a womb,
SOOTHSAYER. In nature's infinite book of secrecy
SOOTHSAYER. To none but thee; no more but when to thee.
SOOTHSAYER. Would I had never come from thence, nor you thither!
SOOTHSAYER. You have seen and prov'd a fairer former fortune
SOOTHSAYER. You shall be more beloving than beloved.
SOOTHSAYER. You shall be yet far fairer than you are.
SOOTHSAYER. You shall outlive the lady whom you serve.
SOOTHSAYER. Your fortunes are alike.
SOOTHSAYER. Your will?
STEWARD, Servant to the Countess of Rousillon
STEWARD.  [Reads]  'I am Saint Jaques' pilgrim, thither gone.
STEWARD. I know, madam, you love your gentlewoman entirely.
STEWARD. Madam, I was very late more near her than I think she
STEWARD. Madam, the care I have had to even your content I wish
STEWARD. May it please you, madam, that he bid Helen come to you.
STEWARD. Pardon me, madam;
Savage, extreme, rude, cruel, not to trust,
Sets down her babe and makes all swift dispatch
Shall will in others seem right gracious,
Shall worms inheritors of this excess
She keeps thee to this purpose, that her skill
She may detain, but not still keep her treasure!
Simply I credit her false-speaking tongue,
Slandering creation with a false esteem,
So him I lose through my unkind abuse.
So now I have confessed that he is thine,
So run'st thou after that which flies from thee,
So thou being rich in will add to thy will
Still losing when I saw my self to win!
Straight in her heart did mercy come,
Suspect I may, yet not directly tell,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy 'Will',
Sweet beauty hath no name no holy bower,
TAURUS, Lieutenant-General to Caesar
TAURUS. My lord?
THE DUKE OF FLORENCE
THIRD GUARD. Nor any one.                         Exeunt guard
THIRD SOLDIER. 'Tis a brave army,
THIRD SOLDIER. Do you hear, masters? Do you hear?
THIRD SOLDIER. It signs well, does it not?
THIRD SOLDIER. List, list!
THIRD SOLDIER. Music i' th' air.
THIRD SOLDIER. Peace, I say!
THIRD SOLDIER. Walk; let's see if other watchmen
THYMUS. Mark Antony-
THYREUS,       "    "   "
THYREUS. 'Tis your noblest course.
THYREUS. Caesar, I go.
THYREUS. Caesar, I shall.                               Exeunt
THYREUS. He knows that you embrace not Antony
THYREUS. Hear it apart.
THYREUS. My name is Thyreus.
THYREUS. One that but performs
THYREUS. Shall I say to Caesar
THYREUS. So, haply, are they friends to Antony.
THYREUS. So.
THYREUS. The scars upon your honour, therefore, he
TWO FRENCH LORDS, serving with Bertram
Tell me thou lov'st elsewhere; but in my sight,
Tempteth my better angel from my side,
Th' expense of spirit in a waste of shame
Th' uncertain sickly appetite to please:
Than in the breath that from my mistress reeks.
Than think that we before have heard them told:
That I have frequent been with unknown minds,
That I have hoisted sail to all the winds
That better is, by 