






Exeunt
Exeunt
Exit GURNEY
[Dies]
[Dies]
Exit CRANMER
Exit GARDINER
[He faints]
[Stabs him]
[Stabs him]
[Stabs him]
[Stabs him]
[Drum heard]
[He descends]
[Giving him papers]
Exeunt YORKISTS
Exit LIEUTENANT
Exeunt all but WOLSEY
Exeunt, with trumpets
Flourish. Exeunt
[Takes his keys]
[Stabs him again]
Exit with the body
Exit with the body
Exit with the body
[Sad and solemn music]
[They stand aloof]
Exeunt GARDINER and PAGE
Exeunt NORFOLK and SUFFOLK
Exeunt all but the BASTARD
[Takes off his crown]
who goes to the CARDINAL]
Exeunt BUCKINGHAM and train
Exeunt WOLSEY and his train
Exeunt all but WARWICK
Exit, led out forcibly
[Throws down gauntlet]
[He whispers to the maskers]
[They all cry 'Henry!']
Exeunt CHATILLON and PEMBROKE
Exeunt all but GLOUCESTER
Exit, and SOMERSET follows
[He descends. She ariseth]
[The drum begins to march]
Exeunt some with KING HENRY
[CLIFFORD groans, and dies]
[Lays his hand on his head]
Exeunt PEMBROKE and STAFFORD
[POST blowing a horn within]
[They lead him out forcibly]
[Gives him a paper. Flourish]
[They all read their letters]
[He gives his hand to WARWICK]
[Here they bear away his body]
and then a great flourish of trumpets
the curtain and sits reading pensively
Exeunt all but the KING and EXETER
[GLOUCESTER and CLARENCE withdraw]
[He and his forces enter the city]
[He and his forces enter the city]
[He and his forces enter the city]
Alarum, retreat, excursions. Exeunt
Exeunt OXFORD and SOMERSET, guarded
[Drum and trumpet. Chambers discharg'd]
throng after him, smiling and whispering
Exit LORD CHAMBERLAIN; and the KING draws
Enter a POST
Enter a POST
SCENE:
Enter GEORGE
Enter RICHARD
[March. WARWICK and his company follow]
and soldiers
another door
takes his state
Enter WARWICK
Enter a MESSENGER
[The KING takes his seat and whispers LOVELL,
Enter a MESSENGER
Enter a NOBLEMAN
Enter the POST
his BRETHREN
Enter a MESSENGER
[Shout within 'A Lancaster! A Lancaster!']
Enter EDWARD, running
THE PROLOGUE.
[She curtsies to the KING, and offers to depart]
brother
Enter SURVEYOR
SONG
Enter SIR JOHN SOMERVILLE
Exeunt all but SOMERSET, RICHMOND, and OXFORD
Exit Procession, with a great flourish of trumpets
[They choose ladies. The KING chooses ANNE BULLEN]
and French soldiers, silent all
and the rest following them
Enter CHATILLON
Enter OXFORD and SOMERSET
Enter a SHERIFF
PRINCE OF WALES, and EXETER
THOMAS LOVELL
[Sound a parley. RICHARD and CLARENCE whisper]
Enter CLARENCE and SOMERSET
Enter WARWICK; CLIFFORD flies
Enter a MESSENGER, blowing
KING HENRY THE EIGHTH
PEMBROKE, and others
THE VISION.
[Seats himself between ANNE BULLEN and another lady]
Enter soldiers, with PRINCE EDWARD
Exit the KING, frowning upon the CARDINAL; the NOBLES
NORFOLK, MONTAGUE, and soldiers
Enter FATHER, bearing of his SON
Enter OXFORD, with drum and colours
Enter a third GENTLEMAN
GLOUCESTER, CLARENCE, and soldiers
MONTAGUE, WARWICK, and soldiers
Enter LORD CAPUCIUS
Enter a GENTLEMAN
Exit CHAMBERLAIN attended. All rise, and tables remov'd
London; Westminster; Kimbolton
THE EPILOGUE.
THE ORDER OF THE CORONATION.
and two or three of the guard
with trumpets, to the gates
Enter CLARENCE, with drum and colours
Enter KING EDWARD and a HUNTSMAN with him
Enter MONTAGUE, with drum and colours
Enter SOMERSET, with drum and colours
Enter WARWICK, CLARENCE, OXFORD, SOMERSET,
Enter a MESSENGER
Enter, below, the MAYOR and two ALDERMEN
Exeunt, first passing over the stage in order and state,
Enter KING EDWARD, GLOUCESTER, and soldiers
Re-enter SERVANT
Alarums, excursions. Enter QUEEN MARGARET,
Enter DOCTOR BUTTS
Enter KEEPER
Enter LOVELL
Enter OLD LADY
Enter SIR THOMAS LOVELL
Enter the guard
Flourish. Enter KING EDWARD, attended; LADY
Flourish. Enter KING and guard
March. Enter MONTGOMERY with drum and soldiers
Bow themselves when he did sing;
Enter the LORD CHAMBERLAIN
Fall asleep or hearing die.
GREY, as Queen; PEMBROKE, STAFFORD, HASTINGS,
Hung their heads and then lay by.
Re-enter WOLSEY with GARDINER
There had made a lasting spring.
Enter CROMWELL, standing amazed
Enter ENGLISH HERALD, with trumpet
Enter SIR ANTHONY DENNY
Enter the KING and BUTTS at window above
Enter the KING and the DUKE OF SUFFOLK
Enter the LORD CHAMBERLAIN
Enter the two CARDINALS, WOLSEY and CAMPEIUS
Enter, on the walls, the MAYOR OF YORK and
Hautboys. Enter CARDINAL WOLSEY, attended; and
March. Enter EDWARD, GEORGE, RICHARD, WARWICK,
March. Enter WARWICK, MONTAGUE, and their army
Re-enter DENNY, With CRANMER
and the rest, bringing the KING out in his gown,
And the mountain tops that freeze,
CHAMBERLAIN
Enter KING HENRY, disguised, with a prayer-book
Enter WOLSEY and CROMWELL
Enter the KING, reading of a schedule, and LOVELL
Even the billows of the sea,
Ever sprung, as sun and showers
Every thing that heard him play,
In sweet music is such art,
Killing care and grief of heart
March. Flourish. Enter KING EDWARD, GLOUCESTER,
Orpheus with his lute made trees,
Re-enter to WOLSEY the DUKES OF NORFOLK and
SUFFOLK, the EARL OF SURREY, and the LORD
To his music plants and flowers
not cruel
Alarum and retreat. Enter EDWARD, GEORGE, RICHARD
Alarum. Enter a son that hath kill'd his Father, at
Enter BRANDON, a SERGEANT-AT-ARMS before him,
Enter KING JOHN, ELINOR, BLANCH, the BASTARD,
Enter LORD CHAMBERLAIN, LORD SANDYS, and SIR
Officers, Guards, and other Attendants; Spirits
Shows; Women attending upon the Queen; Scribes,
WARWICK and the rest cry all 'Warwick! Warwick!' and
With him, the DUKE OF NORFOLK, with the rod of
and WINCHESTER.
bearing the rod of silver with the dove, crowned with an
crown.
demi-coronal of gold. With him, the EARL OF SURREY,
earl's coronet. Collars of Esses.
his coat of arms, and on his head he wore a gilt copper
his head, bearing a long white wand, as High Steward.
marshalship, a coronet on his head. Collars of Esses.
one door; and a FATHER that hath kill'd his Son, at
pearl, crowned. On each side her, the BISHOPS OF LONDON
the QUEEN in her robe; in her hair richly adorned with
without flowers.
wrought with flowers, bearing the QUEEN'S train.
A noise within, crying 'Room for the Queen!'
Britaine, the elder brother of King John
CRANMER approaches the Council table
Enter BUCKINGHAM from his arraignment, tip-staves
Enter CARDINAL WOLSEY, the purse borne before
Enter LADY FAULCONBRIDGE, and JAMES GURNEY
Enter WOLSEY and CAMPEIUS with a commission
Enter the KING frowning on them; he takes his seat
Enter the QUEEN, usher'd by the DUKES OF NORFOLK
Enter, solemnly tripping one after another, six
Flourish and march. Enter, at a distance, KING EDWARD,
Hautboys. Enter the KING, and others, as maskers,
King John
LOVELL, SIR NICHOLAS VAUX, SIR WILLIAM SANDYS,
O Cromwell,
PERSONAGES clad in white robes, wearing on their
Soldiers, Executioners, Messengers, Attendants
The drum playing and trumpet sounding, re-enter WARWICK
Then the two that held the garland deliver the
They pass directly before the CARDINAL,
Trumpet sounds. Enter citizens upon the walls
Where is he
and SUFFOLK; she kneels. The KING riseth
and common people, etc.
and gracefully salute him
and niece to King John
and others. Four stand on one side, and four on the other
are near her.
at which, as it were by inspiration, she makes
before him; the axe with the edge towards him; halberds
behold
bless thee!
both full of disdain
by him
carrying the garland with them. The music continues
changes, the first two hold a spare garland over her
daughter,
daughter-
eye on BUCKINGHAM, and BUCKINGHAM on him,
faces; branches of bays or palm in their hands. They
first congee unto her, then dance; and, at certain
for him
forgive me
from his state, takes her up, kisses and placeth her
good Queen!
habited like shepherds, usher'd by the LORD CHAMBERLAIN.
hands to heaven. And so in their dancing vanish,
head, at which the other four make reverent curtsies.
heads garlands of bays, and golden vizards on their
her head; which done, they deliver the same garland
him, certain of the guard, and two SECRETARIES
in her sleep signs of rejoicing, and holdeth up her
it at WARWICK]
joy and favour to you;
lands,
leave
loss,
modest paces
on each side; accompanied with SIR THOMAS
order in their changes, and holding the garland over
sad with troubles;
same to the other next two, who observe the same
set upon the guard, who fly, crying 'Arm! Arm!' WARWICK
shall have
sorrow;
those customs,
to the last two, who likewise observe the same order;
welcome,
with papers. The CARDINAL in his passage fixeth his
your fortunes?
Enter ROBERT FAULCONBRIDGE and PHILIP, his bastard
The QUEEN makes no answer, rises out of her chair,
at his feet; then speaks
goes about the court, comes to the KING, and kneels
'Gainst foreign storms than any home-bred marriage.
'Gainst me that I cannot take peace with. No black envy
'Go tell false Edward, the supposed king,
'Good Gloucester' and 'good devil' were alike,
'Good den, Sir Richard!'-'God-a-mercy, fellow!'
'Hath sent to me, wishing me to permit
'I shall beseech you'-That is question now;
'Mong boys, grooms, and lackeys. But their pleasures
'No, sir,' says question 'I, sweet sir, at yours.'
'O farewell, Warwick!'
'O sir,' says answer 'at your best command,
'O, Jesus bless us, he is born with teeth!'
'T has done, upon the premises, but justice.
'Tell him from me that he hath done me wrong;
'Tell him, in hope he'll prove a widower shortly,
'The horses your lordship sent for, with all the care
'Tis but his policy to counterfeit,
'Tis but the fate of place, and the rough brake
'Tis full of woe; yet I can give you inkling
'Tis his aspect of terror. All's not well.
'Tis like a pardon after execution:
'Tis like that Richmond with the rest shall down.
'Tis love I bear thy glories makes me speak.
'Tis my undoing. Love and meekness, lord,
'Tis not his new-made bride shall succour him;
'Tis not the roundure of your old-fac'd walls
'Tis now the King's, and called Whitehall.
'Tis sin to flatter; 'good' was little better.
'Tis sweet at first t' acquire-after this process,
'Tis ten to one this play can never please
'Tis to be doubted he would waken him.
'Tis too respective and too sociable
'Tis well there's one above 'em yet. I had thought
'Twas said they saw but one, and no discerner
'Twas sin before, but now 'tis charity.
'Twere childish weakness to lament or fear.
'Twill not, Sir Thomas Lovell, take't of me-
'Twould fall upon ourselves.
'Twould prove the verity of certain words
'Warwick, revenge! Brother, revenge my death.'
'What my great-grandfather and grandsire got
'Wind-changing Warwick now can change no more.'
'em from me, with this reason: his master would be serv'd
1. A lively flourish of trumpets.
2. Then two JUDGES.
3. LORD CHANCELLOR, with purse and mace before him.
4. CHORISTERS singing.                                    [Music]
5. MAYOR OF LONDON, bearing the mace. Then GARTER, in
6. MARQUIS DORSET, bearing a sceptre of gold, on his head a
7. DUKE OF SUFFOLK, in his robe of estate, his coronet on
8. A canopy borne by four of the CINQUE-PORTS; under it
9. The old DUCHESS OF NORFOLK, in a coronal of gold
A French song and a fiddle has no fellow.
A Marshalsea shall hold ye play these two months.
A better wife, let him in nought be trusted
A buzzing of a separation
A cold premeditation for my purpose!
A creature of the Queen's, Lady Anne Bullen.'
A crown it is that seldom kings enjoy.
A deadly groan, like life and death's departing.
A distance from her, while her Grace sat down
A fit or two o' th' face; but they are shrewd ones;
A foot of honour better than I was;
A full hot horse, who being allow'd his way,
A gentleman, sent from the King, to see you.
A gift that heaven gives for him, which buys
A good digestion to you all; and once more
A great man should decline? Nay, an you weep,
A half-fac'd groat five hundred pound a year!
A hand as fruitful as the land that feeds us;
A landless knight makes thee a landed squire.
A league between his Highness and Ferrara.
A little happier than my wretched father;
A load would sink a navy-too much honour.
A long time out of play, may bring his plainsong
A loyal and obedient subject is
A man at least, for less I should not be;
A man in much esteem with th' King, and truly
A man may weep upon his wedding-day.
A man of his place, and so near our favour,
A man that more detests, more stirs against,
A marriage 'twixt the Duke of Orleans and
A minister in his power. You know his nature,
A most arch heretic, a pestilence
A most poor issue?
A most unnatural and faithless service.
A most unspotted lily shall she pass
A napkin steeped in the harmless blood
A new hell in himself.
A noble company! What are their pleasures?
A noise of targets, or to see a fellow
A parley, sirrah, to George of Clarence.
A pattern to all princes living with her,
A peace above all earthly dignities,
A peaceful progress to the ocean.
A place next to the King.
A prince most prudent, of an excellent
A queen, and daughter to a king, inter me.
A quiet night, and my good mistress will
A right good husband, let him be a noble;
A royal lady, spake one the least word that might
A salve for any sore that may betide.
A shrewd turn and he's your friend for ever.'
A single voice; and that not pass'd me but
A soldier by the honour-giving hand
A soul as even as a calm. Pray think us
A spleeny Lutheran; and not wholesome to
A still and quiet conscience. The King has cur'd me,
A strange tongue makes my cause more strange, suspicious;
A strong faith to conceal it.
A sure and safe one, though thy master miss'd it.
A thing inspir'd, and, not consulting, broke
A thousand men have broke their fasts to-day
A thousand pound a year, annual support,
A thousand pounds a year for pure respect!
A thousand thanks, and pray 'em take their pleasures.
A trembling contribution! Why, we take
A very fresh-fish here-fie, fie, fie upon
A way, if it take right, in spite of fortune,
A will that bars the title of thy son.
A woman lost among ye, laugh'd at, scorn'd?
A woman of less place might ask by law-
A woman's will; a cank'red grandam's will!
A woman, I dare say without vain-glory,
A worthy fellow, and hath ta'en much pain
A worthy friend. The King has made him Master
A year before. It is not to be question'd
ARTHUR, DUKE OF BRITAINE, son of Geffrey, late Duke of
Abound as thick as thought could make 'em, and
About Sir William Bulmer-
About his neck, yet never lost her lustre;
About the giving back the great seal to us,
About the hour of eight-which he himself
About the marriage of the Lady Bona.
Above a number-if my actions
Above all princes, in committing freely
Above the border of this horizon,
Absolv'd him with an axe.
Abus'd extremely, and to cry 'That's witty!'
Abusing better men than they can be,
Accords not with the sadness of my suit.
Acquainted with this stranger; 'tis as like you
Adjudg'd an olive branch and laurel crown,
Affected eminence, wealth, sovereignty;
After his patient's death: the King already
After the bloody fray at Wakefield fought,
After the hideous storm that follow'd, was
After your Highness had reprov'd the Duke
Against his brother and his lawful King?
Against th' invulnerable clouds of heaven;
Against the Greeks that would have ent'red Troy.
Against the brows of this resisting town;
Against this man-whose honesty the devil
Against whose fury and unmatched force
Against your sacred person, in God's name,
Ah, boy, if any life be left in thee,
Ah, cousin York! would thy best friends did know
Ah, froward Clarence, how evil it beseems the
Ah, kill me with thy weapon, not with words!
Ah, my good lord, I grieve at what I speak,
Ah, no, no, no, no, it is mine only son!
Ah, simple men, you know not what you swear!
Ah, what a life were this! how sweet! how lovely!
Ah, what a shame were this! Look on the boy;
Ah, what a shame! ah, what a fault were this!
Ah, would she break from hence, that this my body
Alas! has banish'd me his bed already,
Alas, I am a woman, friendless, hopeless!
Alas, how should you govern any kingdom
All clinquant, all in gold, like heathen gods,
All comfort, joy, in this most gracious lady,
All her perfections challenge sovereignty.
All his tricks founder, and he brings his physic
All preparation for a bloody siege
All punish'd in the person of this child,
All that are here. Some come to take their ease
All that which Henry the Fifth had gotten?
All the best men are ours; for 'tis ill hap
All the expected good w'are like to hear
All these accus'd him strongly, which he fain
All these the enemies to our poor bark.
All which secure and sweetly he enjoys,
All will be well.
Allegiance in them; their curses now
Almost each pang a death.
Almost forgot my prayers to content him,
Almost in Christendom. Shortly, I believe,
Almost no grave allow'd me. Like the My,
Almost with ravish'd list'ning, could not find
Although thy husband may be Menelaus;
Am come to crave thy just and lawful aid;
Am for his love and service so to him.
Am yet a courtier beggarly-nor could
Ambassador to the Emperor, you made bold
Ambitious York did level at thy crown,
Among my maids, full little, God knows, looking
Amongst the loving Welshmen canst procure,
An 'a may catch your hide and you alone.
An Ate, stirring him to blood and strife;
An aged princess; many days shall see her,
An army cannot rule 'em.
An heretic, an arch one, Cranmer; one
An honest country lord, as I am, beaten
An honourable conduct let him have-
An hour of revels with 'em.
An if what pleases him shall pleasure you.
An old man, broken with the storms of state,
An ordinary groom is for such payment.
And 'tis a kind of good deed to say well;
And Duke of Buckingham; now, poor Edward Bohun.
And George, of Clarence; Warwick, as ourself,
And Henry but usurps the diadem.
And Henry is my King, Warwick his subject.
And I am I, howe'er I was begot.
And I am ready to put armour on.
And I am ready to put armour on.'
And I forgive and quite forget old faults,
And I had his, Sir Robert's his, like him;
And I shall show you peace and fair-fac'd league;
And I the rather wean me from despair
And I will speak, that so my heart may burst.
And I'll be chief to bring him down again;
And I, that haply take them from him now,
And I, the hapless male to one sweet bird,
And I, who at his hands receiv'd my life,
And I- like one lost in a thorny wood
And Lady Marquis Dorset. Will these please you?
And Lewis a prince soon won with moving words.
And Montague our top-mast; what of him?
And Nero will be tainted with remorse
And Prince shall follow with a fresh supply.
And Richard but a ragged fatal rock?
And Somerset another goodly mast?
And Somerset, with Oxford, fled to her.
And Warwick rages like a chafed bull.
And able means, we had not parted thus.
And after many scorns, many foul taunts,
And after, this; and then to breakfast with
And all at once, once more a happy farewell.
And all for her-a plague upon her!
And all his lands and goods confiscated.
And all such false professors! Would you have me-
And all th' unsettled humours of the land-
And all that shall succeed. Saba was never
And all the fellowship I hold now with him
And all the trouble thou hast turn'd me to?
And all the unlook'd for issue of their bodies,
And all those friends that deign to follow me.
And am I guerdon'd at the last with shame?
And am I thus rewarded? 'Tis not well, lords.
And am I, then, a man to be belov'd?
And am right glad to catch this good occasion
And am right sorry to repeat what follows.
And an that love his follies.
And as for Clarence, as my letters tell me,
And as for you yourself, our quondam queen,
And as the air blows it to me again,
And as the long divorce of steel falls on me
And as we march our strength will be augmented
And ask the Lady Bona for thy queen.
And at the door too, like a post with packets.
And be true King indeed; thou but the shadow.
And be you kings: command, and I'll obey.
And bear possession of our person here,
And bear with mildness my misfortune's cross;
And bears his blushing honours thick upon him;
And better 'twere you troubled him than France.
And bid thee battle, Edward, if thou dar'st.
And birth that thou shouldst stand while Lewis doth sit.
And bloody steel grasp'd in their ireful hands,
And blow it to the source from whence it came;
And both preposterous; therefore, not 'good lord.'
And break the foresaid peace. Let the King know,
And brother-love I do it.
And brought desired help from Burgundy;
And brought from thence the Thracian fatal steeds,
And brought me garlands, Griffith, which I feel
And brought your prisoner to your palace gate.
And burns me up with flames that tears would quench.
And but attended by a simple guard,
And but for our approach those sleeping stones
And by that name must die; yet, heaven bear witness,
And by that virtue no man dare accuse you.
And by the hope I have of heavenly bliss,
And by those claim their greatness, not by blood.
And by thy guess how nigh is Clarence now?
And by whose help I mean to chastise it.
And call them pillars that will stand to us;
And came to th' eye o' th' King; wherein was read
And chatt'ring pies in dismal discords sung;
And cheers these hands that slew thy sire and brother
And chides the sea that sunders him from thence,
And chiefly therefore I thank God and thee;
And come now to create you Duke of York.
And come some other time to know our mind.
And comforts to your cause.
And confident from foreign purposes-
And consequence of dread-that I committed
And coops from other lands her islanders-
And corn shall fly asunder; for I know
And craves your company for speedy counsel.
And cried 'All hail!' when as he meant all harm.
And cry 'Content!' to that which grieves my heart,
And danger serves among them.
And dare be bold to weep for Buckingham,
And dare us with his cap like larks.
And deck my body in gay ornaments,
And did entreat your Highness to this course
And do as I have bid you.
And do expect him here some two hours hence.
And doctors learn'd. First, I began in private
And doves will peck in safeguard of their brood.
And durst commend a secret to your ear
And either victory or else a grave!
And ere my knee rise from the earth's cold face
And every true heart weeps for 't. All that dare
And fair purgation to the world, than malice,
And far enough from court too.
And fee my friends in Rome. O negligence,
And finds them perfect Richard. Sirrah, speak,
And fit it with such furniture as suits
And fits the mounting spirit like myself;
And fix'd on spiritual object, he should still
And fled, as he hears since, to Burgundy.
And follow'd with the general throng and sweat
And for amends to his posterity,
And for his own advantage.
And for this once my will shall stand for law.
And for your brother, he was lately sent
And forc'd to live in Scotland a forlorn;
And force the tyrant from his seat by war.
And force them with a constancy, the Cardinal
And fought the holy wars in Palestine,
And found the blessedness of being little.
And frame my face to all occasions.
And freely urge against me.
And from a mouth of honour quite cry down
And from that full meridian of my glory
And from that torment I will free myself
And from the Bishop's huntsmen rescu'd him;
And from this fellow? If we live thus tamely,
And generally: whoever the King favours
And give more strength to that which hath too much;
And give my tongue-tied sorrows leave to speak.
And give sweet passage to my sinful soul.
And give them leave to fly that will not stay,
And give your hearts to, when they once perceive
And go we, brothers, to the man that took him
And grac'd thy poor sire with his bridal day,
And had he match'd according to his state,
And half our sailors swallow'd in the flood;
And hang their heads with sorrow. Good grows with her;
And happy always was it for that son
And harmful pity must be laid aside.
And has done half an hour, to know your pleasures.
And haste is needful in this desp'rate case.
And hath bereft thee of thy life too late!
And have an hour of hearing; and, by'r Lady,
And have is have, however men do catch.
And he nor sees nor hears us what we say.
And he shall pardon thee these outrages.
And he that throws not up his cap for joy
And heap'd sedition on his crown at home.
And hearten those that fight in your defence.
And heartily entreats you take good comfort.
And heave it shall some weight or break my back.
And hedges his own way. But in this point
And henceforth I am thy true servitor.
And here ye lie baiting of bombards, when
And here's the heart that triumphs in their death
And here, to pledge my vow, I give my hand.
And his disciples only envy at-
And his ill-boding tongue no more shall speak.
And hither have they sent it for her ransom.
And hither make, as great ambassadors
And if I have a conscience, let it sink me
And if he speak of Buckingham, pray tell him
And if he were, he came into the world
And if his name be George, I'll call him Peter;
And if my legs were two such riding-rods,
And if not that, I bring you witnesses:
And if she did play false, the fault was hers;
And if the rest be true which I have heard,
And if thou fail us, all our hope is done.
And if we thrive, promise them such rewards
And if you can be merry then, I'll say
And in conclusion wins the King from her
And in devotion spend my latter days,
And in that quarrel use it to the death.
And in the meantime sojourn'd at my father's;
And in the towns, as they do march along,
And in the very pangs of death he cried,
And in this covert will we make our stand,
And in this vow do chain my soul to thine!
And is his oracle.
And joy that thou becom'st King Henry's friend.
And keep it from the earth.
And kept low shrubs from winter's pow'rful wind.
And king o'er him and all that he enjoys;
And kingly dignity, we are contented
And kiss him with a glorious victory.
And kiss your princely nephew, brothers both.
And lack of other means, in desperate manner
And lastly to confirm that amity
And lay this Angiers even with the ground;
And learn this lesson: Draw thy sword in right.
And leave me here in wretchedness behind ye?
And leave me out on't. Would I had no being,
And leave your brothers to go speed elsewhere.
And leave your children, wives, and you, in peace.
And let him cry 'Ha!' louder!
And let his manly face, which promiseth
And let our hearts and eyes, like civil war,
And let us in-your King, whose labour'd spirits,
And let young Arthur, Duke of Britaine, in,
And let your reason with your choler question
And lift my soul to heaven. Lead on, a God's name.
And like a jolly troop of huntsmen come
And like a mountain cedar reach his branches
And like her true nobility she has
And like thy brother, to enjoy thy land,
And live a subject? Nay, forsooth, my friends,
And live we how we can, yet die we must.
And long hereafter say unto his child
And look upon, as if the tragedy
And lose by over-running. Know you not
And made our footstool of security.
And made the forest tremble when they roar'd.
And make 'em reel before 'em. No man living
And make a monster of you.
And make him naked foil a man-at-arms.
And make him of the like spirit to himself.
And many an old man's sigh, and many a widow's,
And many an orphan's water-standing eye-
And many giddy people flock to him.
And many strokes, though with a little axe,
And meaner than myself have had like fortune.
And men may talk of kings, and why not I?
And men ne'er spend their fury on a child.
And merciless proceeding by these French
And merely to revenge him on the Emperor
And more and richer, when he strains that lady;
And more he would have said; and more he spoke,
And much effuse of blood doth make me faint.
And must needs say a noble one; which makes me
And my integrity to heaven, is all
And ne'er have stol'n the breech from Lancaster.
And ne'er was Agamemmon's brother wrong'd
And never see the Louvre.
And never seek for aid out of himself. Yet see,
And never will I undertake the thing
And next his throat unto the butcher's knife.
And no man see me more.
And no more words till they have flow'd their fill.
And not alone in habit and device,
And not be tied unto his brother's will.
And not betray thy treason with a blush?
And not in me! I am myself alone.
And not to kiss you. A health, gentlemen!
And now I should not lie-but will deserve,
And now forthwith shall articles be drawn
And now he feasts, mousing the flesh of men,
And now may seem as wise as virtuous
And now to London all the crew are gone
And now to London with triumphant march,
And now what rests but that we spend the time
And now what rests but, in night's coverture,
And now will I be Edward's champion.
And now, instead of bullets wrapp'd in fire,
And now, to add more measure to your woes,
And now, to soothe your forgery and his,
And of a lovely boy. The God of Heaven
And of an earthly cold! Mark her eyes.
And of our labours thou shalt reap the gain.
And of their feather many moe proud birds,
And of your choice, these reverend fathers-men
And often but attended with weak guard
And on all sides th' authority allow'd;
And once again bestride our foaming steeds,
And once again cry 'Charge upon our foes!'
And once again proclaim us King of England.
And one, already, of the Privy Council.
And our consent, for better trial of you,
And out of all these to restore the King,
And out of my dear love I'll give thee more
And overshine the earth, as this the world.
And pardon comes. I shall anon advise you
And pardon, father, for I knew not thee.
And part your mingled colours once again,
And pav'd with gold, the Emperor thus desir'd,
And point by point the treasons of his master
And pray receive 'em nobly and conduct 'em
And pray that I may repossess the crown.              Exeunt
And press'd in with this caution. First, methought
And princely care, foreseeing those fell mischiefs
And process of this time, you can report,
And proofs as clear as founts in July when
And prove it too against mine honour, aught,
And put the same into young Arthur's hand,
And raise his issue like a loving sire:
And range with humble livers in content
And ready mounted are they to spit forth
And rear it in the place your father's stands.
And replant Henry in his former state.
And said 'Commend me to my valiant brother.'
And save me so much talking.
And say 'twill do, I know within a while
And say I spoke with you.
And says that once more I shall interchange
And see him safe i' th' Tower.
And see him seated in the regal throne.               Exeunt
And see our gentle queen how well she fares.
And see the noble ruin'd man you speak of.
And see where comes the breeder of my sorrow!
And seek their ruin that usurp'd our right?
And seize himself- I say not 'slaughter him,'
And service to his Majesty and you,
And set the murderous Machiavel to school.
And set thy diadem upon my head,
And set up Lancaster. Why, trowest thou, Warwick,
And she again wants nothing, to name want,
And she shall be my love, or else my queen.
And shut the gates for safety of ourselves,
And sit thee by our side. [Seats her by him] Yield not thy neck
And sleep an act or two; but those, we fear,
And sleep in dull cold marble, where no mention
And smooth the frowns of war with peaceful looks.
And so I chide the means that keeps me from it;
And so I say I'll cut the causes off,
And so I was, which plainly signified
And so am I, whether I smack or no;
And so doth yours: your fault was not your folly;
And so his peers, upon this evidence,
And so obsequious will thy father be,
And so stand fix'd. Peace, plenty, love, truth, terror,
And so, ere answer knows what question would,
And so, have at thee!                           [They fight]
And so, proud-hearted Warwick, I defy thee,
And something over to remember me by.
And something spoke in choler, ill and hasty;
And sometimes falling ones.
And sounded all the depths and shoals of honour,
And spies a far-off shore where he would tread,
And spite of spite needs must I rest awhile.
And spoil your nobler soul. I say, take heed;
And spotless shall mine innocence arise,
And stalk in blood to our possession?
And stand securely on their battlements
And stand unshaken yours.
And stick them in our will. Sixth part of each?
And stir them up against a mightier task.
And stood against them as the hope of Troy
And stop the rising of blood-sucking sighs,
And stops my tongue, while heart is drown'd in cares.
And sullen presage of your own decay.
And sure those men are happy that shall have 'em.
And swell so much the higher by their ebb.
And take it from a heart that wishes towards you
And take the great-grown traitor unawares.
And take your good grace from me? Heaven witness,
And takes her farewell of the glorious sun.
And talking of the Alps and Apennines,
And tam'd the King, and made the Dauphin stoop;
And tell false Edward, thy supposed king,
And tell me who is victor, York or Warwick?
And tell me, then, have you not broke your oaths?
And ten to one you'll meet him in the Tower.
And thank the holy conclave for their loves.
And thank your lordship. By your leave, sweet ladies.
And that I would not for a cow, God save her!
And that is to enjoy thee for my love.
And that the Earl of Surrey, with the rod.
And that the people of this blessed land
And that thy summer bred us no increase,
And that, without delay, their arguments
And the Lord Hastings, who attended him
And the late marriage made of none effect;
And the strong course of my authority
And their true sovereign whom they must obey?
And then comes answer like an Absey book:
And then he falls, as I do. I have ventur'd,
And then our arms, like to a muzzled bear,
And then to Brittany I'll cross the sea
And then to crave a league of amity,
And then to purge his fear, I'll be thy death.
And then we shall repent each drop of blood
And therefore I yield thee my free consent.
And therefore I'll uncrown him ere't be long.
And therefore I'll uncrown him ere't be long.'
And therefore comes my brother Montague.
And they shall feel the vengeance of my wrath.
And they shall say when Richard me begot,
And think with wagging of your tongue to win me;
And this for Rutland; both bound to revenge,
And this his son; England was Geffrey's right,
And this is Geffrey's. In the name of God,
And this man out of prison?
And this soft courage makes your followers faint.
And this the hand that slew thy brother Rutland;
And this word 'love,' which greybeards call divine,
And those of true condition, that your subjects
And thou misshapen Dick, I tell ye all
And thou no more art prince than she is queen.
And thou shalt be the third, if this sword hold.
And thou shalt still remain the Duke of York.
And thou this day hadst kept thy chair in peace.
And thou usurp'st my father's right and mine.
And thou, Lord Bourbon, our High Admiral,
And thou, brave Oxford, wondrous well belov'd,
And though he were unsatisfied in getting-
And though man's face be fearful to their eyes,
And though the edge hath something hit ourselves,
And though we leave it with a root, thus hack'd,
And throw it from their soul; though perils did
And thus I prophesy, that many a thousand
And thus far clear him. Now, what mov'd me to't,
And till it be undoubted, we do lock
And to be judg'd by him.
And to bestow your pity on me; for
And to conclude: the shepherd's homely curds,
And to my brother turn my blushing cheeks.
And to my humble seat conform myself.
And to rebuke the usurpation
And to repair my honour lost for him
And to say so no more.
And to such men of gravity and learning,
And to that end I shortly mind to leave you.
And to that woman, when she has done most,
And to the latest gasp cried out for Warwick,
And to what end, is this? Nay, ladies, fear not:
And to you all, good health!                             [Drinks]
And treacherously hast thou vanquish'd him,
And triumph, Henry, in thy day of doom.
And turn'd my captive state to liberty,
And two Northumberlands- two braver men
And understand again like honest men,
And unmatch'd wit and judgment; Ferdinand,
And venture maidenhead for 't; and so would you,
And very well appointed, as I thought,
And victory with little loss doth play
And want of wisdom, you, that best should teach us,
And warriors faint! Why, 'twere perpetual shame.
And watch'd him how he singled Clifford forth.
And we are grac'd with wreaths of victory.
And we his subjects, sworn in all allegiance,
And we in them no hope to win the day;
And we must root him out. From your affairs
And we shall have more wars befor't be long.
And we, in pity of the gentle King,
And weak we are, and cannot shun pursuit.
And wear a golden sorrow.
And welcome, Somerset. I hold it cowardice
And well deserving? Yet I know her for
And were our father, and this son like him-
And wet my cheeks with artificial tears,
And what God will, that let your King perform;
And what he will, I humbly yield unto.                Exeunt
And what is Edward but a ruthless sea?
And what makes robbers bold but too much lenity?
And what your pleasure is shall satisfy me.
And when I am forgotten, as I shall be,
And when came George from Burgundy to England?
And when he falls, he falls like Lucifer,
And when he thinks, good easy man, full surely
And when my knightly stomach is suffic'd,
And when old time Shall lead him to his end,
And when that we have dash'd them to the ground,
And when the morning sun shall raise his car
And when thou fail'st- as God forbid the hour!-
And when you would say something that is sad,
And whiles I live t' account this world but hell,
And whither fly the gnats but to the sun?
And who durst smile when Warwick bent his brow?
And who shines now but Henry's enemies?
And widow to Prince Arthur.
And wisdom of my Council; but I find none.
And witch sweet ladies with my words and looks.
And with a blessed and unvex'd retire,
And with a care exempt themselves from fear:
And with dishonour laid me on the ground,
And with her plague; her sin his injury,
And with his troops doth march amain to London;
And with no little study, that my teaching
And with some other business put the King
And with that blood will make 'em one day groan fort.
And with the other fling it at thy face,
And with the same full state pac'd back again
And with their helps only defend ourselves.
And with thy hand thy faith irrevocable
And with thy lips keep in my soul a while!
And with what zeal! For, now he has crack'd the league
And without trial fell; God's peace be with him!
And woo your own destruction.
And worthily, my falsehood! Yea, as much
And would my father had left me no more!
And wound her honour with this diffidence.
And wrap our bodies in black mourning-gowns,
And wring the awful sceptre from his fist,
And ye shall find me thankful. Lead the way, lords;
And yet I know not how to get the crown,
And yet brought forth less than a mother's hope,
And yet no day without a deed to crown it.
And yet too good to be your concubine.
And yet with charity. He was a man
And yet words are no deeds. My father lov'd you:
And yet, between my soul's desire and me-
And yet, for all his wings, the fool was drown'd.
And yielding to another when it blows,
And yonder is the wolf that makes this spoil.
And you too, Somerset and Montague,
And you were sworn true subjects unto me;
And you, good brethren, I am much beholding;
And, Clarence, now then it is more than needful
And, Henry, hadst thou sway'd as kings should do,
And, Richard, do not frown upon my faults,
And, after John of Gaunt, Henry the Fourth,
And, after that wise prince, Henry the Fifth,
And, as I further have to understand,
And, as I hear, the great commanding Warwick
And, as occasion serves, this noble Queen
And, as thou seest, ourselves in heavy plight.
And, as we hear, march on to fight with us.
And, by God's Mother, I, being but a bachelor,
And, by my fall, the conquest to my foe.
And, fearing he would rise, he was so virtuous,
And, for I should not deal in her soft laws,
And, for the time shall not seem tedious,
And, gallant Warwick, do but answer this:
And, having France thy friend, thou shalt not dread
And, if you may confess it, say withal
And, let me tell you, it will ne'er be well-
And, like a Sinon, take another Troy.
And, lords, towards Coventry bend we our course,
And, madam, these for you; from whom I know not.
And, not reform'd, may prove pernicious.
And, now I fall, thy tough commixture melts,
And, that once gotten, doubt not of large pay.        Exeunt
And, though unskilful, why not Ned and I
And, to add greater honours to his age
And, to be short, for not appearance and
And, to his shape, were heir to all this land-
And, weakling, Warwick takes his gift again;
And, when the lion fawns upon the lamb,
And, whereso'er he is, he's surely dead.
Anne Bullen! No, I'll no Anne Bullens for him;
Another spread on's breast, mounting his eyes,
Answer no more, for thou shalt be my queen.
Anything on him; for he hath a witchcraft
Appear in forms more horrid-yet my duty,
Applaud the name of Henry with your leader.
Are all I can return. Beseech your lordship,
Are all unfolded; wherein he appears
Are at our backs; and therefore hence amain.
Are grown so catching.
Are in great grievance: there have been commissions
Are near to Warwick by blood and by alliance.
Are not words duly hallowed, nor my wishes
Are to be fear'd. Have you a precedent
Are well foretold that danger lurks within.
Are you not stronger than you were?
Arise Sir Richard and Plantagenet.
Arrest thee of high treason, in the name
Arrested him at York and brought him forward,
Art then forsaken, as thou went'st forlorn!
Arthur Plantagenet, lays most lawful claim
Arthur of Britaine England's King and yours.
Arthur of Britaine, yield thee to my hand,
Arthur, that great forerunner of thy blood,
As 'twere in love's particular, be more
As Henry's late presaging prophecy
As I am made without him, so I'll stand,
As I have heard my father speak himself,
As I have made ye one, lords, one remain;
As I requir'd; and wot you what I found
As I saw it inclin'd. When was the hour
As I suppose, to Robert Faulconbridge-
As I will lend you cause, my doing well
As I will meet thee, if thou stir abroad-
As I would be forgiven. I forgive all.
As I would wish mine enemy.
As Priam was for all his valiant sons.
As a man sorely tainted, to his answer,
As able to perform't, his mind and place
As all think, for this business.
As are of better person than myself,
As being well content with that alone.
As brings a thousand-fold more care to keep
As cherry is to cherry.
As cherubins, an gilt; the madams too,
As doth a lion in a herd of neat;
As doth a rock against the chiding flood,
As doth a sail, fill'd with a fretting gust,
As every loyal subject ought to do.
As fool and fight is, beside forfeiting
As from a blushing handmaid, to his Highness;
As give a crutch to th' dead. But our Count-Cardinal
As good to chide the waves as speak them fair.
As great Alcides' shows upon an ass;
As great in admiration as herself,
As he cried 'Thus let be' to as much end
As he is fam'd for mildness, peace, and prayer.
As he is subtle, and as prone to mischief
As he made semblance of his duty, would
As here at home, suggests the King our master
As himself pleas'd; and they were ratified
As holy oil, Edward Confessor's crown,
As if a channel should be call'd the sea-
As if besmear'd in hell. Sit by us; you shall hear-
As if it fed ye; and how sleek and wanton
As if they vow'd some league inviolable.
As if we kept a fair here! Where are these porters,
As in a theatre, whence they gape and point
As likely to be blest in peace and war;
As loud, and to as many tunes; hats, cloaks-
As may appear by Edward's good success,
As may beseem a monarch like himself.
As much as one sound cudgel of four foot-
As not to know the language I have liv'd in;
As presence did present them: him in eye
As rain to water, or devil to his dam.
As rav'nous fishes do a vessel follow
As seal to this indenture of my love:
As shore of rock. Attend: this holy fox,
As soon he shall by me, that thus the Cardinal
As soul and body's severing.
As the shrouds make at sea in a stiff tempest,
As they say spirits do-at midnight, have
As they were living; think you see them great,
As thine was to thy husband; and this boy
As thou didst kill our tender brother Rutland;
As thou hast shown it flinty by thy deeds,
As to the Tower I thought-I would have play'd
As venom toads or lizards' dreadful stings.
As victors wear at the Olympian games.
As we will ours, against these saucy walls;
As you commanded me.
As you have done my truth. If he know
As you respect the common good, the state
As you wish Christian peace to souls departed,
As you would to your friend.
As yours was put into you, ever casts
As, deathsmen, you have rid this sweet young prince!
As, first, good company, good wine, good welcome,
As, let 'em have their rights, they are ever forward-
Ask God for temp'rance; that's th' appliance only
At a superfluous rate!
At all a friend to truth.
At all times to your will conformable,
At any time speak aught?
At chamber door? and one as great as you are?
At last by notes of household harmony
At least from fair five hundred pound a year.
At least good manners-as not thus to suffer
At length broke under me, and now has left me,
At length they came to th' broomstaff to me; I defied 'em
At my misfortunes? Can thy spirit wonder
At once and fully satisfied-whether ever I
At our enlargement what are thy due fees?
At our importance hither is he come
At unawares may beat down Edward's guard
At which appear'd against him his surveyor,
At your den, sirrah, with your lioness,
At your employment, at your service, sir!'
At your industrious scenes and acts of death.
Attend him here this morning.
Attend me, lords. The proud insulting Queen,
Austria and France shoot in each other's mouth.
Authority so weighty.
Away with Oxford to Hames Castle straight;
Away! for death doth hold us in pursuit.
Ay, ay, for this I draw in many a tear
Ay, but she's come to beg: Warwick, to give.
Ay, such a pleasure as incaged birds
Ay, with these crystal beads heaven shall be brib'd
BLANCH OF SPAIN, daughter to the King of Castile
Bade me enjoy it, with the place and honours,
Banish'd the kingdom! Patience, is that letter
Bar his access to th' King, never attempt
Bark when their fellows do. By some of these
Be blind with tears and break o'ercharg'd with grief.
Be by my friends in Spain advis'd, whose counsel
Be by some certain king purg'd and depos'd.
Be done in this and all things! I obey.
Be friends awhile, and both conjointly bend
Be friends, for shame, my lords! My Lord of Canterbury,
Be gladded in't by me. Then follows that
Be known unto us. Are you all agreed, lords?
Be now produc'd and heard.
Be plain, Queen Margaret, and tell thy grief;
Be resident in men like one another,
Be round impaled with a glorious crown.
Be sad, as we would make ye. Think ye see
Be sent for to return from France with speed;
Be sure you be not loose; for those you make friends
Be thou as lightning in the eyes of France;
Be to the prejudice of her present state,
Be valiant, and give signal to the fight.
Be what they will, I heartily forgive 'em;
Be what they will, may stand forth face to face
Bear witness, all that have not hearts of iron,
Bearing a state of mighty moment in't
Bearing the King in my behalf along;
Bearing the King's will from his mouth expressly?
Bearing their birthrights proudly on their backs,
Beauty and honour in her are so mingled
Became the next day's master, till the last
Because all those things you have done of late,
Because he would avoid such bitter taunts
Because in quarrel of the house of York
Become a churchman better than ambition;
Becomes it thee to be thus bold in terms
Becomes your enemy for mocking him
Been loose, this day they had been lost. Such joy
Been, out of fondness, superstitious to him,
Before he go to bed. I'll take my leave.
Before the King will grant her humble suit.
Before the dew of evening fall shall fleet
Before the eye and prospect of your town,
Before thy coming, Lewis was Henry's friend.
Before thy sovereign and thy lawful king?
Before we will lay down our just-borne arms,
Before you all, appeal unto the Pope,
Before you answer Warwick. His demand
Before you open it.
Beheld them, when they lighted, how they clung
Behold, the French amaz'd vouchsafe a parle;
Being but the second generation
Being distress'd, was by that wretch betray'd
Being no further enemy to you
Being none of his, refuse him. This concludes:
Being now seen possible enough, got credit,
Being of those virtues vacant. I fear nothing
Being wrong'd as we are by this peevish town,
Believe me, she has had much wrong. Lord Cardinal,
Believe me, sir, she is the goodliest woman
Bequeath thy land to him and follow me?
Beseech you, sir, to spare me till I may
Beseeching Thee, if with Thy will it stands
Beseeching him to give her virtuous breeding-
Beside that of the Jewel House, is made Master
Bestow your counsels on me; she now begs
Bestride the rock; the tide will wash you off,
Between my father and my mother lay,
Between the King and Katharine?
Between the King and you, and to deliver,
Between us and the Emperor, the Queen's great nephew,
Betwixt you and the Cardinal. I advise you-
Beware you lose it not. For us, if you please
Beyond all man's endeavours. My endeavours,
Beyond thought's compass, that former fabulous story,
Beyond you to your friends.
Bid ye so far forget yourselves? I gave ye
Bishop of Winchester. But know I come not
Blood hath bought blood, and blows have answer'd blows;
Blown with the windy tempest of my heart
Bootless are plaints, and cureless are my wounds.
Born in Northamptonshire, and eldest son,
Born out of your dominions, having here
Both are alike, and both alike we like.
Both for your honour better and your cause;
Both full of truth, I make King Lewis behold
Both him and all his brothers unto reason.
Both in his private conscience and his place,
Both in his words and meaning. He was never,
Both now and ever bless her! 'Tis a girl,
Both of his truth and him-which was too far-
Both of my life and office, I have labour'd,
Both tugging to be victors, breast to breast,
Brave warriors, march amain towards Coventry.         Exeunt
Break off the parley; for scarce I can refrain
Breed him some prejudice; for from this league
Bring me a constant woman to her husband,
Broach'd with the steely point of Clifford's lance;
Brother, we will proclaim you out of hand;
But 'tis so lately alter'd that the old name
But God hath made her sin and her the plague
But Henry now shall wear the English crown
But Hercules himself must yield to odds;
But I must needs to th' Tower, my lords?
But I return his sworn and mortal foe.
But I will sort a pitchy day for thee;
But all hoods make not monks.
But all in vain; they had no heart to fight,
But as this title honours me and mine,
But by particular consent proceeded
But by thy help to this distressed queen?
But cardinal sins and hollow hearts I fear ye.
But cheerly seek how to redress their harms.
But do not break your oaths; for of that sin
But dreadful war shall answer his demand.
But ere I go, Hastings and Montague,
But ere sunset I'll make thee curse the deed.
But far beyond my depth. My high-blown pride
But far unfit to be a sovereign.
But few now give so great ones. My barge stays;
But few now living can behold that goodness-
But follow me, and Edward shall be ours.
But for the certain knowledge of that truth
But for the rest: you tell a pedigree
But from deceit bred by necessity;
But from the inward motion to deliver
But from this lady may proceed a gem
But half my lay thoughts in him, some of these
But he fell to himself again, and sweetly
But he would bite none; just as I do now,
But he's a learned man. May he continue
But his performance, as he is now, nothing.
But how to make ye suddenly an answer,
But if an humble prayer may prevail,
But if you ever chance to have a child,
But if you fondly pass our proffer'd offer,
But if you mind to hold your true obedience,
But if your title to the crown be weak,
But in the midst of this bright-shining day
But in the night or in the time of war.
But in this troublous time what's to be done?
But in your bride you bury brotherhood.
But keep our course, though the rough wind say no,
But leave their flocks and, under your fair conduct,
But let me see. Is this our foeman's face?
But let us hence, my sovereign, to provide
But like a foul misshapen stigmatic,
But little for my profit; can you think, lords,
But many a many foot of land the worse.
But march to London with our soldiers?
But minister communication of
But most himself, if he could see his shame.
But ne'er till now his scandal of retire.
But never once again turn back and fly.
But now I am past all comforts here, but prayers.
But now mischance hath trod my title down
But on the sight of us your lawful king,
But once he slander'd me with bastardy;
But only slaught'red by the ireful arm
But par'd my present havings to bestow
But poverty could never draw 'em from me-
But reverence to your calling makes me modest.
But say, is Warwick friends with Margaret?
But see where Somerset and Clarence comes.
But seek revenge on Edward's mockery.                   Exit
But set his murd'ring knife unto the root
But sever'd in a pale clear-shining sky.
But sound the trumpets and about our task.
But stop their mouth with stubborn bits and spur 'em
But such an honest chronicler as Griffith.
But such as I, without your special pardon,
But that I am as well begot, my liege-
But that I am bound in charity against it!
But that we enter, as into our dukedom?
But that you shall sustain moe new disgraces
But that, till further trial in those charges
But think you, lords, that Clifford fled with them?
But this cannot continue.
But this is worshipful society,
But those that sought it I could wish more Christians.
But thou from loving England art so far
But to command, to check, to o'erbear such
But to defend his person from night-foes?
But to prevent the tyrant's violence-
But to those men that sought him sweet as summer.
But toiling desperately to find it out-
But truth is truth: large lengths of seas and shores
But we will make it subject to this boy.
But welcome, sweet Clarence; my daughter shall be thine.
But what art thou, whose heavy looks foretell
But what said Lady Bona to my marriage?
But what said Warwick to these injuries?
But whatsoe'er thou tak'st me for, I'm sure
But whe'er I be as true begot or no,
But when he took a beggar to his bed
But where he meant to ruin, pitiful.
But where they mean to sink ye. All good people,
But wherefore dost thou come? Is't for my life?
But whether 'twas the coldness of the King,
But who comes in such haste in riding-robes?
But will you be more justified? You ever
But with a heart full of unstained love;
But yet I cannot help you.
But, Clifford, tell me, didst thou never hear
But, I beseech you, what's become of Katharine,
But, Warwick, after God, thou set'st me free,
But, ass, I'll take that burden from your back,
But, mighty lord, this merry inclination
But, mother, I am not Sir Robert's son:
But, thus much, they are foul ones.
But, whiles he thought to steal the single ten,
Butchers and villains! bloody cannibals!
By Him that made us all, I am resolv'd
By a commission from the Consistory,
By a vain prophecy of Nicholas Henton.
By all conjectures: first, Kildare's attainder,
By all that's holy, he had better starve
By all the laws of war y'are privileg'd.
By all the reverend fathers of the land
By all your good leaves, gentlemen, here I'll make
By custom of the coronation.
By dark'ning my clear sun. My lord, farewell.
By east and west let France and England mount
By fair or foul means we must enter in,
By holy Mary, Butts, there's knavery!
By learned approbation of the judges. If I am
By living low where fortune cannot hurt me,
By long and vehement suit I was seduc'd
By many hands your father was subdu'd;
By me obey'd.
By our best eyes cannot be censured.
By sick interpreters, once weak ones, is
By spying and avoiding fortune's malice,
By such invention as I can devise?
By th' Bishop of Bayonne, then French ambassador,
By th' heels, and suddenly; and on your heads
By that false woman as this king by thee.
By that sin fell the angels. How can man then,
By that you love the dearest in this world,
By the compulsion of their ordinance
By this I challenge him to single fight.
By this account, then, Margaret may win him;
By this alliance to make void my suit.
By this brave duke came early to his grave;
By this my issue's fail, and that gave to me
By this so sicken'd their estates that never
By this time from their fixed beds of lime
By this, I hope, she hath a son for me.               Exeunt
By violent swiftness that which we run at,
By virtue of that ring I take my cause
By what means got I leave to your own conscience,
By what safe means the crown may be recover'd.
By your good favour, too sharp; men so noble,
By your power legatine within this kingdom,
By your prescription; but this top-proud fellow-
CARDINAL PANDULPH, the Pope's legate
CHATILLON, ambassador from France to King John
CONSTANCE, Mother to Arthur
Call Edward King, and at his hands beg mercy?
Call Warwick patron, and be penitent?
Call for our chiefest men of discipline,
Call him to present trial. If he may
Call in more women. When I am dead, good wench,
Call not me slanderer! Thou and thine usurp
Came on the part of York, press'd by his master;
Came to the altar, where she kneel'd, and saintlike
Came to the bar; where to his accusations
Can I do this, and cannot get a crown?
Can advise me like you; be to yourself
Can hide you from our messengers of war,
Can make good people.
Can neither call it perfect day nor night.
Can nothing render but allegiant thanks;
Can pluck the diadem from faint Henry's head
Can ye endure to hear this arrogance?
Cannot be cur'd by words; therefore be still.
Cannot stand under them: if you omit
Cannot vouchsafe this burden, 'tis too weak
Canst thou not speak? O traitors! murderers!
Cardinal Campeius is arriv'd and lately;
Cardinal of York, are join'd with me their servant
Carried herself towards me.
Cast her fair eyes to heaven, and pray'd devoutly.
Cast none away. That I shall clear myself,
Cast thousand beams upon me, like the sun?
Cause the musicians play me that sad note
Chalks successors their way, nor call'd upon
Change shapes with Protheus for advantages,
Chattels, and whatsoever, and to be
Clap round fines for neglect. Y'are lazy knaves;
Clapp'd wings to me.
Clarence, beware; thou keep'st me from the light,
Clarence, thy turn is next, and then the rest;
Colbrand the giant, that same mighty man?
Cold biting winter mars our hop'd-for hay.
Coldly embracing the discoloured earth;
Collected from his life. I'll startle you
Come from the country to be judg'd by you
Come hither, Bess, and let me kiss my boy.
Come on, brave soldiers; doubt not of the day,
Come pat betwixt too early and too late
Come quickly, Montague, or I am dead.
Come therefore, let's about it speedily.              Exeunt
Come, York and Richard, Warwick and the rest;
Come, fellow soldier, make thou proclamation.
Come, gentlemen, ye shall go my way, which
Come, lady, I will show thee to my kin;
Come, lords, we trifle time away; I long
Come, madam, and come, Richard, we must speed
Come, therefore, let us fly while we may fly:
Come, you and I must walk a turn together;
Comes Warwick, backing of the Duke of York,
Comes hunting this way to disport himself.
Comes through commissions, which compels from each
Command an argosy to stern the waves.
Command the rest to stand. God and our right!              Exeunt
Commanded always by the greater gust,
Commanded nature that my lady's womb,
Commander of this hot malicious day.
Commends his good opinion of you to you, and
Commotions, uproars, with a general taint
Compare our faces and be judge yourself.
Conceive when, after many moody thoughts,
Concerning the French journey. I replied
Confess who set thee up and pluck'd thee down,
Confessor to him, with that devil-monk,
Confront your city's eyes, your winking gates;
Continual meditations, tears, and sorrows,
Continue in my liking? Nay, gave notice
Controlment for controlment- so answer France.
Corruption wins not more than honesty.
Could but be brought to know our ends are honest,
Could he get me? Sir Robert could not do it:
Could not be wedg'd in more; I am stifled
Could say 'This is my wife' there, all were woven
Could speak this with as free a soul as I do!
Counting myself but bad till I be best.
Courage, my masters! Honour now or never!
Cousin of Exeter, what thinks your lordship?
Cranmer will find a friend will not shrink from him.
Crave leave to view these ladies and entreat
Craves harbourage within your city walls.
Cromwell, I charge thee, fling away ambition:
Cry 'havoc!' kings; back to the stained field,
Cry thee amen; and yet my conscience says
Culling the principal of all the deer.
Cut off the sequence of posterity,
Cuts off more circumstance: they are at hand;
Dangers, doubts, wringing of the conscience,
Dare bite the best. I do beseech your lordships
Dare he presume to scorn us in this manner?
Dare mate a sounder man than Surrey can be
Dare not relate.
Daring th' event to th' teeth, are all in uproar,
Dark cloudy death o'ershades his beams of life,
Darraign your battle, for they are at hand.
Dashing the garment of this peace, aboded
Deals with our Cardinal; and, as I trow-
Deceive more slily than Ulysses could,
Defacers of a public peace than I do.
Deliver all with charity.
Deliver them, and your appeal to us
Deserve our better wishes.
Deserve we no more reverence?
Deserves a corner. Would all other women
Desires your visitation, and to be
Desiring thee to lay aside the sword
Did I forget that by the house of York
Did I impale him with the regal crown?
Did I let pass th' abuse done to my niece?
Did I put Henry from his native right?
Did break i' th' wrenching.
Did broach this business to your Highness, or
Did glad my heart with hope of this young Richmond,
Did never float upon the swelling tide
Did not offend, nor were not worthy blame,
Didst thou not tell me, Griffith, as thou led'st me,
Didst yield consent to disinherit him,
Digest this letter of the Cardinal's?
Disdainful to be tried by't; 'tis not well.
Distinctly his full function.
Divers and dangerous; which are heresies,
Do like the mutines of Jerusalem,
Do me but right, and you must all confess
Do no more offices of life to't than
Do you not read some tokens of my son
Does an irresolute purpose.
Does buy and sell his honour as he pleases,
Does he rake this together?-Now, my lords,
Does pay the act of it, as, i' th' contrary,
Does purpose honour to you no less flowing
Does whet his anger to him.
Dogs howl'd, and hideous tempest shook down trees;
Domestics to you, serve your will as't please
Doth cloud my joys with danger and with sorrow.
Doth he lay claim to thine inheritance?
Doth live again in thee. Long mayst thou Eve
Doth not the object cheer your heart, my lord?
Doublets, I think-flew up, and had their faces
Down, down to hell; and say I sent thee thither-
Draw near, Queen Margaret, and be a witness
Draws those heaven-moving pearls from his poor eyes,
Drummer, strike up, and let us march away.
During my life; and, to confirm his goodness,
Durst wag his tongue in censure. When these suns-
Dy'd in the dying slaughter of their foes.
EARL OF ESSEX
EARL OF PEMBROKE
EARL OF SALISBURY
Each one already blazing by our meeds,
Earl Surrey was sent thither, and in haste too,
Edward and Richard, like a brace of greyhounds
Edward will always bear himself as King.
Edward, kneel down.
Edward, what satisfaction canst thou make
Either betray'd by falsehood of his guard
Either for such men or such business.
Either of King or Council, when you went
Either that is thine, or else thou wert not his.
Else might I think that Clarence, Edward's brother,
Embrace and love this man.
Embrace him, love him, give him welcome hither.
Employ'd you where high profits might come home,
England and France might through their amity
England and Ireland, Anjou, Touraine, Maine,
England is safe, if true within itself?
England we love, and for that England's sake
England, impatient of your just demands,
Enter the two KINGS, with their powers, at several doors
Enter to the LORD CHAMBERLAIN the DUKES OF NORFOLK and SUFFOLK
Envy and base opinion set against 'em,
Envy and crooked malice nourishment
Equal in lustre, were now best, now worst,
Ere a determinate resolution, he-
Ere he attain his easeful western bed-
Ere it was ask'd-but when the way was made,
Ere ye come there, be sure to hear some news.
Erroneous, mutinous, and unnatural,
Ev'n to the Hall, to hear what shall become
Even as the axe falls, if I be not faithful!
Even for the loss of thee, having no more,
Even in the downfall of his mellow'd years,
Even now forsake me; and of all my lands
Even now we heard the news. Ah, couldst thou fly!
Even of yourself, Lord Cardinal.
Even then that sunshine brew'd a show'r for him
Even till that England, hedg'd in with the main,
Even till that utmost corner of the west
Even till unfenced desolation
Even with the dearest blood your bodies bear.
Ever God bless your Highness!
Ever belov'd and loving may his rule be;
Ever in fear to kindle your dislike,
Ever to get a boy.
Exceeding wise, fair-spoken, and persuading;
Exempt from envy, but not from disdain,
Exeunt
Exterior form, outward accoutrement,
Fail not to use, and with what vehemency
Fair fall the bones that took the pains for me!-
Fair lords, take leave and stand not to reply.
Fall into th' compass of a praemunire-
Far from his succour, from the King, from all
Farewell all physic; and what follows then?
Farewell nobility! Let his Grace go forward
Farewell, a long farewell, to all my greatness!
Farewell, my sovereign.
Farewell;
Father of Warwick, know you what this means?
Fears, and despairs-and all these for his marriage;
Fell Warwick's brother, and by that our foe.
Fell by our servants, by those men we lov'd most-
Fell gently down, as if they struck their friends.
Fight closer or, good faith, you'll catch a blow.
Find mercy in the law, 'tis his; if none,
Find out, and he will take it.
First to do greetings to thy royal person,
First will I see the coronation;
First, mine own service to your Grace; the next,
First, that without the King's assent or knowledge
Fit for a fool to fall by! What cross devil
Flattering me with impossibilities.
Fly o'er thy royal head, and shade thy person
Flying for succour to his servant Banister,
Follow such creatures. That you may, fair lady,
Follow your envious courses, men of malice;
For 'tis to such a thing-
For 'twas indeed his colour, but he came
For Edward will defend the town and thee,
For France hath flaw'd the league, and hath attach'd
For France, for France, for it is more than need.
For Gloucester's dukedom is too ominous.
For I have bought it with an hundred blows.
For I have heard that she was there in place.
For I have murdered where I should not kill.
For I have often heard my mother say
For I intend but only to surprise him.
For I must think of that which company
For I myself will hunt this wolf to death.            Exeunt
For I was spoke to, with Sir Henry Guildford,
For I will buzz abroad such prophecies
For I will hence to Warwick's other daughter;
For I will henceforth be no more unconstant.
For King of England shalt thou be proclaim'd
For Margaret my queen, and Clifford too,
For Somerset, off with his guilty head.
For Warwick and his friends, God and Saint George!    Exeunt
For Warwick bids you all farewell, to meet in heaven.
For Warwick is a subtle orator,
For Warwick was a bug that fear'd us all.
For York in justice puts his armour on.
For after the stout Earl Northumberland
For all the mud in Egypt. Have you heard it?
For all the rest is held at such a rate
For all the world.
For all this spice of your hypocrisy.
For any suit of pounds; and you, O fate!
For at their hands I have deserv'd no pity.
For bearing arms, for stirring up my subjects,
For bloody power to rush upon your peace.
For both of you are birds of self-same feather.
For by my scouts I was advertised
For by that loss I will not purchase them.
For chair and dukedom, throne and kingdom, say:
For choosing me when Clarence is in place.
For courage mounteth with occasion.
For did I but suspect a fearful man,
For doubtless Burgundy will yield him help,
For ere thou canst report I will be there,
For ever and for ever shall be yours.
For ever by your Grace, whose hand has rais'd me.
For ever from the world. I had my trial,
For every cloud engenders not a storm.
For fear we wake her. Softly, gentle Patience.
For few men rightly temper with the stars;
For from my heart thine image ne'er shall go;
For further life in this world I ne'er hope
For goodness' sake, consider what you do;
For hand to hand he would have vanquish'd thee.
For hardy and undoubted champions;
For he is but a bastard to the time
For he would needs be virtuous: that good fellow,
For heaven now bids me; and the words I utter
For her sake that I have been-for I feel
For here, I hope, begins our lasting joy.             Exeunt
For high feats done to th' crown, neither allied
For him, and in his right, we hold this town.
For hither will our friends repair to us.
For holy offices I have a time; a time
For honesty and decent carriage,
For how can I help them and not myself?
For how can tyrants safely govern home
For hunting was his daily exercise.
For if the trial of the law o'ertake ye
For in the marches here we heard you were
For in thy shoulder do I build my seat,
For it an archbishop.
For it shall strew the footsteps of my rising.
For love of Edward's offspring in my womb.
For many lives stand between me and home;
For many men that stumble at the threshold
For matching more for wanton lust than honour
For mine own ends; indeed to gain the popedom,
For mocking marriage with a dame of France.
For more than blushing comes to. If your back
For my example.
For never henceforth shall I joy again;
For new-made honour doth forget men's names:
For no dislike i' th' world against the person
For not bestowing on him at his asking
For now we owe allegiance unto Henry.
For on thy fortune I repose myself.
For once allow'd the skilful pilot's charge?
For our best act. If we shall stand still,
For self-same wind that I should speak withal
For shame! Leave Henry, and call Edward king.
For shame, my liege, make them your precedent!
For she's a woman to be pitied much.
For since the Cardinal fell that title's lost.
For so I know he is, they know he is-
For so I will. Mine eyes grow dim. Farewell,
For so run the conditions, leave those remnants
For so they phrase 'em-by their heralds challeng'd
For so they seem. Th' have left their barge and landed,
For so we are inform'd-with new opinions,
For speaking false in that. Thou art, alone-
For strokes receiv'd and many blows repaid
For such a one we show'd 'em. If they smile
For such receipt of learning is Blackfriars;
For sure there's no converting 'em. Now
For that it made my imprisonment a pleasure;
For then my guiltless blood must cry against 'em.
For then, and not till then, he felt himself,
For thine own future safety.
For this down-trodden equity we tread
For this great journey. What did this vanity
For this is he that moves both wind and tide.
For this play at this time is only in
For this world frowns, and Edward's sun is clouded.
For this, amongst the rest, was I ordain'd.
For thou art fortunate in all thy deeds.
For thou shalt know this strong right hand of mine
For thou wast got i' th' way of honesty.
For though they cannot greatly sting to hurt,
For though usurpers sway the rule a while
For through this laund anon the deer will come;
For till I see them here, by doubtful fear
For trust not him that hath once broken faith-
For truth's sake and his conscience; that his bones
For virtue and true beauty of the soul,
For we were subjects but while you were king.
For well I wot that Henry is no soldier.
For well I wot thou hast thy mother's tongue.
For well I wot ye blaze to burn them out.
For what doth cherish weeds but gentle air?
For what hath broach'd this tumult but thy pride?
For what is in this world but grief and woe?
For what they have been; 'tis a cruelty
For when the King once heard it, out of anger
For when they hold 'em, you would swear directly
For who liv'd King, but I could dig his grave?
For wise men say it is the wisest course.
For with a band of thirty thousand men
For yet I am not look'd on in the world.
For yet is hope of life and victory.
For you have seen him open 't. Read o'er this;
For you or any; how far I have proceeded,
For your conversion. Now your traveller,
For your own quiet as to rectify
For, I profess, you have it.
For, being not propp'd by ancestry, whose grace
For, though before his face I speak the words,
Forbear, for shame, my lords.
Forc'd by the tide to combat with the wind;
Forc'd to retire by fury of the wind.
Foretold should be his last-full of repentance,
Forgetting, like a good man, your late censure
Forslow no longer; make we hence amain.               Exeunt
Forsooth, an inventory, thus importing
Forthwith for what you come. Where's Gardiner?
Forthwith that Edward be pronounc'd a traitor,
Forthwith we'll send him hence to Brittany,
Forwearied in this action of swift speed,
Found his deserts; how innocent I was
Found thee a way, out of his wreck, to rise in-
Free pardon to each man that has denied
Fresher than e'er it was, and held for certain
From Ampthill, where the Princess lay; to which
From Clifford's and Northumberland's pursuit.
From France to England, there to live in peace!
From France?
From London by the King was I press'd forth;
From Ravenspurgh haven before the gates of York,
From any private malice in his end,
From every tree lop, bark, and part o' th' timber;
From first to last the onset and retire
From foreign princes.
From giving aid which late I promised.
From hence you be committed to the Tower;
From her shall read the perfect ways of honour,
From his ambitious finger. What had he
From princes into pages. All men's honours
From shelves and rocks that threaten us with wreck,
From sincere motions, by intelligence,
From these our Henry lineally descends.
From these sad thoughts that work too much upon him.
From those that wish the downfall of our house!
From whence shall Warwick cut the sea to France,
From whence that tender spray did sweetly spring-
From your kind aunt, Duchess of Burgundy,
Full fourteen weeks before the course of time.
Full of sad thoughts and troubles.
Further in the proceeding.                         Exit SECRETARY
Gave't you the King?
Give grandam kingdom, and it grandam will
Give him a little earth for charity!'
Give it a plum, a cherry, and a fig.
Give me assurance with some friendly vow,
Give me thy gold, if thou hast any gold;
Give signal to the fight, and to it, lords.
Given ear to our complaint-of his great grace
Gives not the hawthorn bush a sweeter shade
Gives way to us-I much fear. If you cannot
Giving no ground unto the house of York,
Go break among the press and find a way out
Go forward.
Go home to bed and, like the owl by day,
Go levy men and make prepare for war;
Go to; I'll make ye know your times of business.
Go where you will, the King shall be commanded;
Go with me like good angels to my end;
Go, bear them hence; I will not hear them speak.
Go, give 'em welcome; you can speak the French tongue;
God save you, sir! Where have you been broiling?
God shall be truly known; and those about her
God turn their hearts! I never sought their malice-
Going to chapel; and the voice is now
Gone slightly o'er low steps, and now are mounted
Good my Lord Cardinal, I have half a dozen healths
Good time, and live; but for the stock, Sir Thomas,
Goodness and he fill up one monument!
Gracing the scroll that tells of this war's loss
Great Albion's Queen in former golden days;
Great store of room, no doubt, left for the ladies,
Greater than this.
Grievous-complaints of you; which, being consider'd,
Grow from the King's acquaintance, by this carriage.
Guess thou the rest: King Edward's friends must down.
HUBERT DE BURGH
Ha! I have said. Be gone.
Had I but serv'd my God with half the zeal
Had I not reason, think ye, to make haste
Had been dishabited, and wide havoc made
Had he been slain, we should have heard the news;
Had he been ta'en, we should have heard the news;
Had he none else to make a stale but me?
Had left no mourning widows for our death;
Had of your father claim'd this son for his?
Had slipp'd our claim until another age.
Had the full view of, such a noise arose
Hadst thou been meek, our title still had slept;
Hard-favour'd Richard? Richard, where art thou?
Hardly conceive of me-let it be nois'd
Has business at his house; for all shall stay.
Has crept too near another lady.
Has crept too near his conscience.
Has done this, and 'tis well; for worthy Wolsey,
Has left the cause o' th' King unhandled, and
Hate him perniciously, and, o' my conscience,
Hath a sharp edge-it's long and't may be said
Hath crawl'd into the favour of the King,
Hath into monstrous habits put the graces
Hath married the fair lady.
Hath my behaviour given to your displeasure
Hath not our brother made a worthy choice?
Hath pass'd in safety through the narrow seas
Hath pawn'd an open hand in sign of love;
Hath pawn'd the Sicils and Jerusalem,
Hath plac'd thy beauty's image and thy virtue.
Hath put himself in arms. The adverse winds,
Hath rais'd in Gallia have arriv'd our coast
Hath show'd him gold; my life is spann'd already.
Hath spoken well and justly; therefore, madam,
Have I not strove to love, although I knew
Have I with all my full affections
Have been as piercing as the mid-day sun
Have been mine so that evermore they pointed
Have blown this coal betwixt my lord and me-
Have broke their backs with laying manors on 'em
Have broken with the King, who hath so far
Have brought a countercheck before your gates,
Have burnt that tongue than said so.
Have by my hands of life bereaved him.
Have caus'd him by new act of parliament
Have chid me from the battle, swearing both
Have ever come too short of my desires,
Have follow'd both my fortunes faithfully;
Have found him guilty of high treason. Much
Have got a speeding trick to lay down ladies.
Have got by the late voyage is but merely
Have hither march'd to your endamagement;
Have in our armours watch'd the winter's night,
Have left me naked to mine enemies.
Have misdemean'd yourself, and not a little,
Have more, or else unsay't; and now, while 'tis hot,
Have mov'd us and our Council that you shall
Have not the power to muzzle him; therefore best
Have now the fatal object in my eye
Have other some. Why, 'tis a happy thing
Have put his knife into him.'
Have robb'd my strong-knit sinews of their strength,
Have satisfied the King for his divorce,
Have shaken Edward from the regal seat
Have sold their fortunes at their native homes,
Have sold their lives unto the house of York;
Have stood to charity and display'd th' effects
Have their free voices. Rome the nurse of judgment,
Have to you, but with thanks to God for such
Have too a woman's heart, which ever yet
Have uncontemn'd gone by him, or at least
Have we mow'd down in tops of all their pride!
Have we ramm'd up our gates against the world.
Have wish'd the sleeping of this business; never desir'd
Have wrought the easy-melting King like wax.
Having my country's peace and brothers' loves.
Having the fearful flying hare in sight,
He and his toothpick at my worship's mess-
He be convented. He's a rank weed, Sir Thomas,
He bores me with some trick. He's gone to th' King;
He could not sit his mule.
He counsels a divorce, a loss of her
He did discharge a horrible oath, whose tenour
He did it with a serious mind; a heed
He did unseal them; and the first he view'd,
He dives into the King's soul and there scatters
He fell sick suddenly, and grew so ill
He gave his honours to the world again,
He had a black mouth that said other of him.
He has my heart yet, and shall have my prayers
He has strangled his language in his tears.
He hath good usage and great liberty;
He is Sir Robert's son, and so art thou.
He is the half part of a blessed man,
He may a little grieve at.
He meant to lay upon; and his own letter,
He might have kept that glory to this day;
He never was so womanish; the cause
He or she, cuckold or cuckold-maker,
He parted frowning from me, as if ruin
He pleaded still not guilty, and alleged
He said he did; and with his deed did crown
He sent command to the Lord Mayor straight
He shall again relate.
He shall appear in proof.
He shall here find his friends, with horse and men,
He should have leave to go away betimes,
He smiles, and says his Edward is install'd;
He solemnly had sworn that what he spoke
He spoke, and learnedly, for life; but all
He stretch'd him, and, with one hand on his dagger,
He swore consent to your succession,
He that dares most but wag his finger at thee.
He that perforce robs lions of their hearts
He to be Earl Marshal. You may read the rest.
He was a man: this, in respect, a child;
He was a scholar, and a ripe and good one;
He was from thence discharg'd? Sir, call to mind
He was most princely: ever witness for him
He was the author, thou the instrument.
He were mine enemy? What friend of mine
He will have all, I think.
He would kiss you twenty with a breath.              [Kisses her]
He would say untruths, and be ever double
He'll soon find means to make the body follow.
He's honest, on mine honour. God's blest Mother!
He's loving and most gracious. 'Twill be much
He's traitor to th' height.                                Exeunt
He's very likely now to fall from him
He, but a Duke, would have his son a king,
He, on his right, asking a wife for Edward.
Health to your lordships!
Healthful; and ever since a fresh admirer
Heap'd upon me, poor undeserver, I
Hear me, Sir Thomas. Y'are a gentleman
Hear what I say, and then go home and lose me.
Heard many grievous-I do say, my lord,
Heat not a furnace for your foe so hot
Heaven ever laid up to make parents happy,
Heaven guard my mother's honour and my land!
Heaven has an end in all. Yet, you that hear me,
Heaven is above all yet: there sits a Judge
Heaven knows how dearly. My next poor petition
Heaven lay not my transgression to my charge!
Held a late court at Dunstable, six miles of
Held current music too.
Helen of Greece was fairer far than thou,
Hence with him to the Tower: let him not speak.
Henry the Eighth, life, honour, name, and all
Henry the Seventh succeeding, truly pitying
Her ashes new create another heir
Her coronation. Katharine no more
Her faction will be full as strong as ours.
Her foes shake like a field of beaten corn,
Her injury the beadle to her sin;
Her sighs will make a batt'ry in his breast;
Her suit is granted for her husband's lands.
Her suit is now to repossess those lands;
Her tears will pierce into a marble heart;
Her times of preservation, which perforce
Her words doth show her wit incomparable;
Here on my knee I vow to God above
Here on this molehill will I sit me down.
Here sheathe thy sword; I'll pardon thee my death.
Here sits a king more woeful than you are.
Here stand we both, and aim we at the best;
Here's to your ladyship; and pledge it, madam,
Here, after excursions, enter the HERALD OF FRANCE,
Hews down and fells the hardest-timber'd oak.
Himself with princes; one that, by suggestion,
His Grace is ent'ring. Nay, you must not freeze:
His Highness having liv'd so long with her, and she
His Highness shall speak in, I do beseech
His blessed part to heaven, and slept in peace.
His body couched in a curious bed,
His cold thin drink out of his leather bottle,
His confessor, who fed him every minute
His contemplation were above the earth
His currish riddle sorts not with this place.
His dews fall everywhere.
His dukedom and his chair with me is left.
His eye against the moon. In most strange postures
His father by as much as a performance
His father never was so true begot;
His father revell'd in the heart of France,
His faults lie open to the laws; let them,
His fears were that the interview betwixt
His forces strong, his soldiers confident.
His grandam's wrongs, and not his mother's shames,
His greatness is a-ripening, nips his root,
His hand to wield a sceptre; and himself
His head by nature fram'd to wear a crown,
His honour and the greatness of his name
His hour of speech a minute-he, my lady,
His knell rung out, his judgment, he was stirr'd
His land then seiz'd on by the conqueror.
His lands to me, and took it on his death
His looks are full of peaceful majesty;
His love too long ago! I am old, my lords,
His marches are expedient to this town,
His noble friends and fellows, whom to leave
His noble jury and foul cause can witness.
His oath enrolled in the parliament;
His overthrow heap'd happiness upon him;
His own opinion was his law. I' th' presence
His practices to light?
His promises were, as he then was, mighty;
His realm a slaughter-house, his subjects slain,
His royal self in judgment comes to hear
His second marriage shall be publish'd, and
His serious considering.
His service and his counsel.
His soldiers lurking in the towns about,
His spell in that is out; the King hath found
His statutes cancell'd, and his treasure spent;
His thinkings are below the moon, not worth
His viands sparkling in a golden cup,
His will is most malignant, and it stretches
His wonted sleep under a fresh tree's shade,
His word upon you. Since I had my office
Hither return all gilt with Frenchmen's blood.
Hitting a grosser quality, is cried up
Holy and heavenly thoughts still counsel her;
Honour and plenteous safety-that you read
Hopkins, that made this mischief.
How comes it then that thou art call'd a king,
How could he stay till Warwick made return?
How does his Highness?
How eagerly ye follow my disgraces,
How earnestly he cast his eyes upon me!
How far hence is thy lord, mine honest fellow?
How far you satisfied me.
How fares my brother? Why is he so sad?
How grounded he his title to the crown
How he determines further.
How it doth grieve me that thy head is here!
How like you this wild counsel, mighty states?
How long her face is drawn! How pale she looks,
How many days will finish up the year,
How many hours brings about the day,
How many makes the hour full complete,
How many years a mortal man may live.
How much her Grace is alter'd on the sudden?
How much more is his life in value with him!
How now?
How soon this mightiness meets misery.
How sweet a plant have you untimely cropp'd!
How that ambitious Constance would not cease
How that the Cardinal did entreat his Holiness
How to live better. For your stubborn answer
How under my oppression I did reek,
How well resembles it the prime of youth,
How you may hurt yourself, ay, utterly
How you stand minded in the weighty difference
How your state stands i' th' world, with the whole world?
However faulty, yet should find respect
However, yet there is no great breach. When it comes,
Humbly to kiss your hand, and with my tongue
I am a king, and privileg'd to speak.
I am a most poor woman and a stranger,
I am a poor fall'n man, unworthy now
I am a simple woman, much too weak
I am a soldier and now bound to France.
I am a subject fit to jest withal,
I am about to weep; but, thinking that
I am beholding to you. Cheer your neighbours.
I am commanded, with your leave and favour,
I am fall'n indeed.
I am happily come hither.
I am not of your wrong. Therefore in him
I am not such a truant since my coming,
I am not worth this coil that's made for me.
I am not worthy yet to wear. I shall, assuredly.
I am so sorry for my trespass made
I am sorry my integrity should breed,
I am sure, have shown at full their royal minds-
I am thankful to you, and I'll go along
I am the most unhappy woman living.
I am the shadow of poor Buckingham,
I am thy grandam, Richard: call me so.
I am your better, traitors as ye are;
I and ten thousand in this luckless realm
I answer is most false. The Duke by law
I be not found a talker.
I bear i' th' state; and nature does require
I came into the world with my legs forward.
I came this way so happily; the King
I came to serve a king and not a duke.
I can add colours to the chameleon,
I can no more.                          Exeunt, leading KATHARINE
I cannot blame his conscience.
I cannot judge; but, to conclude with truth,
I caus'd you write yet sent away?
I cheer'd them up with justice of our cause,
I come no more to make you laugh; things now
I come to pierce it or to give thee mine.
I come to tell you things sith then befall'n.
I come, in kindness and unfeigned love,
I cry your honour mercy; you may, worst
I dare and must deny it. Now I feel
I dare now call mine own. O Cromwell, Cromwell!
I dare your worst objections. If I blush,
I deem you an ill husband, and am glad
I do excuse you; yea, upon mine honour,
I do not like their coming. Now I think on't,
I do not talk much.
I do pronounce him in that very shape
I do refuse you for my judge and here,
I doubt not, I, but we shall soon persuade
I ever contradicted your desire
I fear he will indeed. Well, let him have them.
I fear, the story of his anger. 'Tis so;
I fear, too many curses on their heads
I fear, with dancing is a little heated.
I feel my heart new open'd. O, how wretched
I find at such proud rate that it outspeaks
I find him a fit fellow.                              Exit WOLSEY
I free you from't. You are not to be taught
I give heaven thanks I was not like to thee!
I give you welcome with a powerless hand,
I guess thy message. Is the Queen deliver'd?
I had it from my father.
I had thought I had had men of some understanding
I haste now to my setting. I shall fall
I have a little yet to say. Look there, my lords;
I have a suit which you must not deny me:
I have advertis'd him by secret means
I have been begging sixteen years in court-
I have been to you a true and humble wife,
I have disclaim'd Sir Robert and my land;
I have kept you next my heart; have not alone
I have more charity; but say I warned ye.
I have news to tell you; come, come, me your hand.
I have no brother, I am like no brother;
I have no further gone in this than by
I have no spleen against you, nor injustice
I have not been desirous of their wealth,
I have not long to trouble thee. Good Griffith,
I have not stopp'd mine ears to their demands,
I have receiv'd much honour by your presence,
I have this day receiv'd a traitor's judgment,
I have touch'd the highest point of all my greatness,
I have, and most unwillingly, of late
I hear of none but the new proclamation
I here proclaim myself thy mortal foe;
I here renounce him and return to Henry.
I here resign my government to thee,
I hinder you too long-good night, Sir Thomas.
I hold my most malicious foe and think not
I hope all's for the best.
I hope she will deserve well-and a little
I humbly thank his Grace; and from these shoulders,
I knew him, and I know him; so I leave him
I know 'twill stir him strongly; yet I know
I know I am too mean to be your queen,
I know but of a single part in aught
I know by that he's dead; and by my soul,
I know his noble nature-not to let
I know my life so even. If your business
I know myself now, and I feel within me
I know you have a gentle, noble temper,
I know your back will bear a duchess. Say,
I lay me down a little while to breathe;
I left no reverend person in this court,
I like it better than dangerous honour.
I like it well. France, shall we knit our pow'rs
I long till Edward fall by war's mischance
I love him not, nor fear him-there's my creed;
I made no spare, sir.
I make as little doubt as you do conscience
I make you both Protectors of this land,
I may not prove inferior to yourself.
I mean in perjur'd witness, than your Master,
I mean our princely father, Duke of York.
I mean the Bishop-did require a respite
I mean the learned ones, in Christian kingdoms
I mean your malice-know, officious lords,
I mean, in bearing weight of government,
I mean, my lords, those powers that the Queen
I mean, who set the body and the limbs
I meant to rectify my conscience, which
I must not yet forsake you. Let's be merry:
I nam'd my knell, whilst I sit meditating
I need not add more fuel to your fire,
I never saw before. Great-bellied women,
I pray for heartily, that it may find
I put it to your care.
I put you o'er to heaven and to my mother.
I rather wish you foes than hollow friends.
I saw him in the battle range about,
I say again there is no English soul
I say, set on.                   Exuent in manner as they entered
I seal upon the lips of this sweet babe.
I see the lady hath a thing to grant,
I sent the King? Is there no way to cure this?
I sent your message; who return'd her thanks
I serv'd my King, he would not in mine age
I shall both find your lordship judge and juror,
I shall not fail t' approve the fair conceit
I should be glad to hear such news as this
I should have been beholding to your paper.
I should have ta'en some pains to bring together
I should judge now unhappily.
I show'r a welcome on ye; welcome all.
I speak it with a single heart, my lords-
I speak my good Lord Cardinal to this point,
I speak no more than what my soul intends;
I speak not this as doubting any here;
I spy a black, suspicious, threat'ning cloud
I stabb'd your fathers' bosoms: split my breast.
I stood not in the smile of heaven, who had
I swear 'tis better to be lowly born
I swear again I would not be a queen
I swear he is true-hearted, and a soul
I take it she that carries up the train
I take it, by all voices, that forthwith
I tender my commission; by whose virtue-
I thank my memory I yet remember
I thank ye all. To you, my good Lord Mayor,
I thank ye heartily. So shall this lady,
I that did never weep now melt with woe
I then crave pardon of your Majesty.
I then did feel full sick, and yet not well,
I think it cites us, brother, to the field,
I think would better please 'em. By my life,
I throw my hands, mine eyes, my heart to Thee,
I told my lord the Duke, by th' devil's illusions
I utterly abhor, yea, from my soul
I was a chaste wife to my grave. Embalm me,
I was adopted heir by his consent:
I was my chamber's prisoner.
I was the chief that rais'd him to the crown,
I was then present, saw them salute on horseback;
I weigh'd the danger which my realms stood in
I well might hear, delivered with a groan,
I were malicious else.
I were unmannerly to take you out
I will away towards Barnet presently
I will be bold with time and your attention.
I will have more, or scold it out of him.
I will have none so near else. Learn this, brother,
I will implore. If not, i' th' name of God,
I will not hence till with my talk and tears,
I will not ruinate my father's house,
I will not taint my mouth with.
I will not tarry; no, nor ever more
I will not wish ye half my miseries:
I will revenge his wrong to Lady Bona,
I will say thus much for him: if a prince
I wish it grubb'd up now.
I would be all, against the worst may happen.
I would give it every foot to have this face!
I would not be Sir Nob in any case.
I would not be a queen.
I would not be a young count in your way
I would not be so sick though for his place.
I would set an ox-head to your lion's hide,
I would surrender it.
I would that I were low laid in my grave:
I would your Grace would give us but an hour
I writ to's Holiness. Nay then, farewell!
I' th' privy chamber?
I'd play incessantly upon these jades,
I'll bear thee hence; and let them fight that will,
I'll do thee service for so good a gift.
I'll draw it as apparent to the crown,
I'll drown more sailors than the mermaid shall;
I'll follow you and tell what answer
I'll follow, and outstare him.
I'll hang my head and perish.
I'll hear his confessions justify;
I'll hence forthwith unto the sanctuary
I'll hence to London on a serious matter;
I'll join mine eldest daughter and my joy
I'll kill my horse, because I will not fly.
I'll leave my son my virtuous deeds behind;
I'll leave you to your fortune and be gone
I'll make my heaven in a lady's lap,
I'll make my heaven to dream upon the crown,
I'll never pause again, never stand still,
I'll peck you o'er the pales else.                         Exeunt
I'll play the orator as well as Nestor,
I'll put it to the issue.                                  Exeunt
I'll slay more gazers than the basilisk;
I'll smoke your skin-coat an I catch you right;
I'll stir them to it.-Come, away, away!
I'll tell thee what befell me on a day
I'll tell ye more.
I'll throw thy body in another room,
I'll turn to sparks of fire.
I'll undertake may see away their shilling
I'll undertake to land them on our coast
I'll venture one have-at-him.
I'll wear the willow-garland for his sake.
I'll wear the willow-garland for his sake.'
I'm sure, in me.
I've heard him utter to his son-in-law,
I, her frail son, amongst my brethren mortal,
I, that have neither pity, love, nor fear.
I, then in London, keeper of the King,
If I but knew him, with my love and duty
If I chance to talk a little wild, forgive me;
If I command him, follows my appointment.
If I have us'd myself unmannerly;
If I lov'd many words, lord, I should tell you
If Warwick be so near as men report.
If Warwick knew in what estate he stands,
If Warwick take us, we are sure to die.               Exeunt
If any spark of life be yet remaining,
If any such be here- as God forbid!-
If case some one of you would fly from us,
If ever any malice in your heart
If for the last, say 'Ay,' and to it, lords.
If fortune serve me, I'll requite this kindness.
If friend or foe, let him be gently used.
If he arise, be mock'd and wond'red at.
If he were seated as King Edward is.
If heaven had pleas'd to have given me longer life
If it be so, then both depart to him:
If it conceiv'd a male child by me, should
If love ambitious sought a match of birth,
If lusty love should go in quest of beauty,
If murdering innocents be executing,
If my sight fail not,
If not complete of, say he is not she;
If not from hell, the devil is a niggard
If not, bleed France, and peace ascend to heaven,
If not, the city being but of small defence,
If old Sir Robert did beget us both
If secret powers
If she have time to breathe, be well assur'd
If the King blame me for't, I'll lay ye an
If the King please; his curses and his blessings
If there be faith in men-meant for his trial
If they hold when their ladies bid 'em clap.
If they shall fail, I with mine enemies
If this foul deed were by to equal it.
If this right hand would buy two hours' life,
If this salute my blood a jot; it faints me
If thou be there, sweet brother, take my hand,
If thou hadst said him nay, it had been sin.
If thy rare qualities, sweet gentleness,
If want it be not that she is not he.
If well, he stepp'd before me, happily,
If what I now pronounce you have found true;
If with the sap of reason you would quench
If ye be any thing but churchmen's habits-
If you are bound to us or no. What say you?
If you contend, a thousand lives must perish.
If you have any justice, any pity,
If you might please to stretch it.
If you speak truth, for their poor mistress' sake:
If you'll not here proclaim yourself our King,
If zealous love should go in search of virtue,
Impairing Henry, strength'ning misproud York.
In Oxfordshire shalt muster up thy friends.
In a long motley coat guarded with yellow,
In a rich chair of state, opposing freely
In all humility unto his Highness;
In all my miseries; but thou hast forc'd me,
In all the rest show'd a most noble patience.
In all this noble bevy, has brought with her
In any breast of strong authority
In any of their courts.           Exeunt QUEEN and her attendants
In at the window, or else o'er the hatch;
In best appointment all our regiments.
In brief, a braver choice of dauntless spirits
In celebration of this day with shows,
In charging you with matters, to commit you,
In daily thanks, that gave us such a prince;
In doing daily wrongs. I could say more,
In dreadful trial of our kingdom's king!
In every borough as we pass along;
In every county as we go along.
In fear our motion will be mock'd or carp'd at,
In haste post-haste are come to join with you;
In her days every man shall eat in safety
In hewing Rutland when his leaves put forth,
In honour honesty, the tract of ev'rything
In humblest manner I require your Highness
In it be memoriz'd.
In loud rebellion.
In mind and feature. I persuade me from her
In mine own country, lords.
In my behaviour to the majesty,
In our long absence. Pray, do not deliver
In our own natures frail and capable
In right of Arthur, do I claim of thee;
In secret ambush on the forest side
In seeking tales and informations
In seeming to augment it wastes it? Be advis'd.
In sooth, good friend, your father might have kept
In sooth, he might; then, if he were my brother's,
In such a business.
In such a just and charitable war.
In such a point of weight, so near mine honour,
In such an honour; how may I deserve it,
In tempting of your patience, but am bold'ned
In that behalf which we have challeng'd it;
In that one woman I have lost for ever.
In the King's business.
In the divorce his contrary proceedings
In the great'st humbleness, and desir'd your Highness
In the large composition of this man?
In the next chamber.
In the old time of war, would shake the press,
In the relief of this oppressed child
In the unpartial judging of this business.
In their embracement, as they grew together;
In their fair cheeks, my lord; then we shall have 'em
In them a wilder nature than the business
In them and in ourselves our safety lies.
In this hot trial more than we of France;
In this man's place before him?
In this self-place where now we mean to stand.
In this the heaven figures some event.
In time will find their fit rewards. That seal
In truth I know not. I was set at work
In undetermin'd differences of kings.
In us, thy friend. Give me thy hand, stand up;
In warlike march these greens before your town,
In what have I offended you? What cause
Incens'd the lords o' th' Council, that he is-
Indeed, 'tis true that Henry told me of;
Induc'd by potent circumstances, that
Induce you to the question on't, or ever
Infecting one another, yea, reciprocally-
Inferreth arguments of mighty strength,
Inferring arguments of mighty force.
Infortunate in nothing but in thee.
Infuse his breast with magnanimity
Install'd Lord Archbishop of Canterbury.
Instead whereof let this supply the room.
Into a general prophecy-that this tempest,
Into my private meditations?
Into our hands, and to confine yourself
Into our presence, where this heaven of beauty
Into this chiefest thicket of the park.
Into this city's bosom.
Into what pitch he please.
Into whose hand I give thy life.
Into your own hands, Cardinal, by extortion;
Into your private chamber, we shall give you
Invite me to a banquet; whose bright faces
Invited by your noble self, hath sent
Ipswich and Oxford! One of which fell with him,
Is Clarence, Henry, and his son young Edward,
Is Edward your true king? for I were loath
Is business of estate, in which we come
Is by the stern Lord Clifford done to death.
Is come to lay his weary bones among ye;
Is cramm'd with arrogancy, spleen, and pride.
Is far beyond a prince's delicates-
Is found a truth now; for it grows again
Is fresh about me.
Is held no great good lover of the Archbishop's,
Is in his brain: he bites his lip and starts,
Is it Sir Robert's son that you seek so?
Is kindling coals that fires all my breast,
Is longer than his foreskirt. By this time
Is most divinely vow'd upon the right
Is nam'd your wars in France. This makes bold mouths;
Is new committed to the Bishop of York,
Is niece to England; look upon the years
Is not my friend. This, to confirm my welcome-
Is nothing left me but my body's length.
Is now dishonoured by this new marriage.
Is only bitter to him, only dying,
Is only my obedience. What can happen
Is our best having.
Is pleas'd you shall to th' Tower, till you know
Is poison to thy stomach.
Is posted, as the agent of our Cardinal,
Is prisoner to the Bishop here, at whose hands
Is prisoner to the foe; his state usurp'd,
Is run in your displeasure.
Is stol'n away to Rome; hath ta'en no leave;
Is that his noble Grace would have some pity
Is that old noble lady, Duchess of Norfolk.
Is that poor man that hangs on princes' favours!
Is the King's hand and tongue, and who dare speak
Is the young Dauphin every way complete-
Is this an hour for temporal affairs, ha?
Is this exaction?
Is this th' alliance that he seeks with France?
Is this the honour they do one another?
Is this your Christian counsel? Out upon ye!
Is thither gone to crave the French King's sister
Is to th' court, and there ye shall be my guests:
Is your displeasure with the King.
Is, of a king, become a banish'd man,
It boots not to resist both wind and tide.
It can do me no damage'; adding further
It cannot be, an if thou wert his mother.
It did take place, 'I do' quoth he 'perceive
It doth appear; for, upon these taxations,
It draws toward supper in conclusion so.
It fits we thus proceed, or else no witness
It forg'd him some design, which, being believ'd,
It from the bearer, 'tis a sufferance panging
It hath already publicly been read,
It ill beseems this presence to cry aim
It is to see a nobleman want manners.
It lies to cure me, and the cure is to
It reaches far, and where 'twill not extend,
It seems you are in haste. An if there be
It shall be eas'd, if France can yield relief.
It to be stirr'd; but oft have hind'red, oft,
It was much like to do. He answer'd 'Tush,
It were dishonour to deny it her.
It would infect his speech-that if the King
It's fit this royal session do proceed
JAMES GURNEY, servant to Lady Faulconbridge
John de la Car, my chaplain, a choice hour
KING JOHN
KING PHILIP OF FRANCE
Katharine our queen, before the primest creature
Keep comfort to you, and this morning see
Keep the door close, sirrah.
Kept him a foreign man still; which so griev'd him
King Edward's fruit, true heir to th' English crown.
King Edward, valiant Richard, Montague,
King Henry and the Prince his son are gone.
King John, this is the very sum of all:
King John, your king and England's, doth approach,
King Philip, determine what we shall do straight.
King of England and France, and Lord of Ireland, &c.'
King'd of our fears, until our fears, resolv'd,
Kinsmen of mine, three at the least, that have
Kneel thou down Philip, but rise more great-
Know you of this taxation?
Knowing she will not lose her wonted greatness,
LADY FAULCONBRIDGE, widow of Sir Robert Faulconbridge
LEWIS, the Dauphin
LORD BIGOT
LYMOGES, Duke of Austria
Ladies, you are not merry. Gentlemen,
Laid any scruple in your way which might
Laid nobly on her; which perform'd, the choir,
Language unmannerly; yea, such which breaks
Lascivious Edward, and thou perjur'd George,
Laugh'd in his face; and when with grief he wept,
Lay all the weight ye can upon my patience,
Lay kissing in your arms, Lord Cardinal.
Leap'd from his eyes; so looks the chafed lion
Learned and reverend fathers of his order,
Leave off to wonder why I drew you hither
Leave them as naked as the vulgar air.
Left to be finished by such as she;
Legitimation, name, and all is gone.
Lest he should help his father.
Lest in our need he might infect another
Lest men should say 'Look where three-farthings goes!'
Lest unadvis'd you stain your swords with blood;
Lest with my sighs or tears I blast or drown
Let 'em alone, and draw the curtain close;
Let all the ends thou aim'st at be thy country's,
Let hell make crook'd my mind to answer it.
Let him depart before we need his help.
Let him not seek't of us. By day and night!
Let it alone; my state now will but mock me.
Let it go round.
Let me alone.
Let me be us'd with honour; strew me over
Let me embrace thee in my weary arms.
Let me entreat- for I command no more-
Let me have such a bowl may hold my thanks
Let me have time and counsel for my cause.
Let me ne'er hope to see a chine again;
Let me ne'er see again.                            Exit MESSENGER
Let none think flattery, for they'll find 'em truth.
Let silence be commanded.
Let some o' th' guard be ready there.
Let them be welcome then; we are prepar'd.
Let there be letters writ to every shire
Let us be back'd with God, and with the seas
Let's dry our eyes; and thus far hear me, Cromwell,
Let's think in private more.                               Exeunt
Lewis and the Lady Bona send to him.
Lie like one lump before him, to be fashion'd
Like a bright exhalation in the evening,
Like free and honest men, our just opinions
Like little wanton boys that swim on bladders,
Like one that stands upon a promontory
Like to a chaos, or an unlick'd bear-whelp
Like to a dismal clangor heard from far,
Like to his island girt in with the ocean
Like water from ye, never found again
Likely in time to bless a regal throne.
Liker in feature to his father Geffrey
Live where their prayers did; and it's come to pass
Lo now my glory smear'd in dust and blood!
Lo, in this right hand, whose protection
Lodg'd in the abbey; where the reverend abbot,
Lofty and sour to them that lov'd him not,
Long in his Highness' favour, and do justice
Longer than I have time to tell his years;
Look here upon thy brother Geffrey's face:
Look here, I throw my infamy at thee.
Look in his youth to have him so cut off
Look into these affairs see this main end-
Look therefore, Lewis, that by this league and marriage
Look, as I blow this feather from my face,
Lord Aberga'ny, to whom by oath he menac'd
Lord Chancellor in your place.
Lord George your brother, Norfolk, and myself,
Lord of our presence, Angiers, and of you.
Lord of thy presence and no land beside?
Lord, for thy justice!
Lords, Citizens of Angiers, Sheriff, Heralds, Officers,
Lords, to the field; Saint George and victory!
Love thyself last; cherish those hearts that hate thee;
MELUN, a French lord
Madam, I was not old Sir Robert's son;
Madam, I would not wish a better father.
Madam, I'll follow you unto the death.
Made Britain India: every man that stood
Made former wonders its. To-day the French,
Made it a fool and beggar. The two kings,
Made me put this main secret in the packet
Made my name once more noble. Now his son,
Made suit to come in's presence, which if granted,
Made to the Queen to call back her appeal
Make me a curse like this.
Make me no more ado, but all embrace him;
Make much of him, my lords; for this is he
Make of your prayers one sweet sacrifice,
Make war with him that climb'd unto their nest,
Make work upon ourselves, for heaven or hell.
Make yourself mirth with your particular fancy,
Making another head to fight again.
Malice ne'er meant. Our breach of duty this way
Many a groaning throe. Thus hulling in
Many a widow's husband grovelling lies,
Many sharp reasons to defeat the law.
March'd toward Saint Albans to intercept the Queen,
Mark but my fall and that that ruin'd me.
Mark'd by the destinies to be avoided,
Marry, this is yet but young, and may be left
Matter against him that for ever mars
Matter against me, and his eye revil'd
Matter of marriage was the charge he gave me,
May be absolv'd in English.
May be beholding to a subject,
May be possessed with some store of crowns;
May easily win a woman's. Ay, my mother,
May have a tomb of orphans' tears wept on him!
May here find truth too. Those that come to see
May hourly fall upon ye!
May it please your Highness to resolve me now;
May make against the house of Lancaster.
May not be punish'd with my thwarting stars,
May yet ere night yield both my life and them
May, if they think it well, let fall a tear:
Me as his abject object. At this instant
Meanwhile must be an earnest motion
Measure for measure must be answered.
Melt and lament for her.
Men fear'd the French would prove perfidious,
Men for their sons, wives for their husbands,
Men into such strange mysteries?
Men of his way should be most liberal,
Men well inclin'd to hear what thou command'st.
Men's evil manners live in brass: their virtues
Men's prayers then would seek you, not their fears.
Mend 'em, for shame, my lords. Is this your comfort?
Met in the vale of Andren.
Methinks 'tis prize enough to be his son.
Methinks the power that Edward hath in field
Methinks these peers of France should smile at that.
Methought he bore him in the thickest troop
Might corrupt minds procure knaves as corrupt
Might go one way, and safely; and the end
Might in the ground be closed up in rest!
Mine and your master-with his own hand gave me;
Mine ear hath tempted judgment to desire.
Misthink the King, and not be satisfied!
More covetous of wisdom and fair virtue
More near my life, I fear, with my weak wit,
More out of malice than integrity,
More pangs and fears than wars or women have;
More stronger to direct you than yourself,
More than I dare make faults. You few that lov'd me
More than mine own; that am, have, and will be-
More than my all is nothing, nor my prayers
More than my body's parting with my soul!
More than the nature of a brother's love.
More than with ruthless waves, with sands, and rocks.
More than, I fear, you are provided for.
More worth than empty vanities; yet prayers and wishes
More worthy this place than myself; to whom,
Most bitterly on you as putter-on
Most heartily to pray for her.
Most learned reverend sir, into our kingdom.
Most like a careful subject, have collected
Most pestilent to th' hearing; and to bear 'em
Most throughly to be winnowed where my chaff
Much is your sorrow; mine ten times so much.
Much weightier than this work. The Queen's in labour,
Much work for tears in many an English mother,
Must Edward fall, which peril heaven forfend.
Must I go like a traitor thither?
Must I then leave you? Must I needs forgo
Must be fulfill'd, and I attend with patience.
Must bear the same proportion; and not ever
Must by the roots be hewn up yet ere night.
Must fetch him in he papers.
Must give my tendance to.
Must help you more than you are hurt by me.
Must now confess, if they have any goodness,
Must pity drop upon her. Verily,
Must strike her sail and learn a while to serve
Muster'd my soldiers, gathered flocks of friends,
My Lord Chatillon may from England bring
My Lord Sandys, you are one will keep 'em waking:
My Lord Sandys.
My Lord of Canterbury, and got your leave
My Lord of Norfolk, as you are truly noble,
My Lord of Somerset, at my request,
My Lord of York, out of his noble nature,
My Wolsey, see it furnish'd. O, my lord,
My arms such eel-skins stuff'd, my face so thin
My blood, my want of strength, my sick heart shows,
My bond to wedlock or my love and duty,
My bounties upon you.
My boy a bastard! By my soul, I think
My breast can better brook thy dagger's point
My brother might not claim him; nor your father,
My careless father fondly gave away'?
My chaplain to no creature living but
My comfort comes along. -Break up the court;
My conscience first receiv'd a tenderness,
My elder brother, the Lord Aubrey Vere,
My eye's too quick, my heart o'erweens too much,
My faculties nor person, yet will be
My father and my grandfather were kings;
My father came untimely to his death?
My father gave me honour, yours gave land.
My father's land, as was my father's will.
My father's loss, like a most royal prince,
My father, King of Spain, was reckon'd one
My father, being the Earl of Warwick's man,
My fear to hope, my sorrows unto joys,
My good Lord Cardinal, they vent reproaches
My good and gracious Lord of Canterbury.
My haste made me unmannerly. There is staying
My heart dropp'd love, my pow'r rain'd honour, more
My heart, sweet boy, shall be thy sepulchre,
My joy of liberty is half eclips'd.
My king is tangled in affection to
My learn'd and well-beloved servant, Cranmer,
My legs like loaden branches bow to th' earth,
My lord and sovereign, and thy vowed friend,
My lord the Duke of Buckingham, and Earl
My lord, you'll bear us company?
My lord. Griffith, farewell. Nay, Patience,
My lords, I care not-so much I am happy
My lords, I thank you both for your good wins;
My love and fear glu'd many friends to thee;
My mercy dried their water-flowing tears;
My mild entreaty shall not make you guilty.
My mildness hath allay'd their swelling griefs,
My mind exceeds the compass of her wheel.
My mind presageth happy gain and conquest.
My mind's not on't; you are too hard for me.
My most dread sovereign, may it like your Grace
My mother's son did get your father's heir;
My noble Queen, let former grudges pass,
My noble father, Henry of Buckingham,
My noble lords; for those that tame wild horses
My noble partners and myself thus pray:
My parks, my walks, my manors, that I had,
My picked man of countries: 'My dear sir,'
My pity hath been balm to heal their wounds,
My pray'rs to heaven for you; my loyalty,
My royal choice.
My royal nephew, and your name Capucius.
My sighing breast shall be thy funeral bell;
My sovereign, with the loving citizens,
My studied purposes requite; which went
My sword i' the life-blood of thee else. My lords
My tears gainsay; for every word I speak,
My tears shall wipe away these bloody marks;
My thoughts aim at a further matter; I
My waned state for Henry's regal crown.
Myself have often heard him say and swear
Myself in person will straight follow you.
Nay, be thou sure I'll well requite thy kindness,
Nay, let 'em be unmanly, yet are follow'd.
Nay, stay not to expostulate; make speed;
Nay, then I see that Edward needs must down.
Nay, when? Strike now, or else the iron cools.
Nay, whom they shall obey, and love thee too,
Ne'er may he live to see a sunshine day
Ne'er spurr'd their coursers at the trumpet's sound;
Near or far off, well won is still well shot;
Needs must you lay your heart at his dispose,
Neglect him not; make use now, and provide
Never name to us: you have half our power.
Never so truly happy, my good Cromwell.
Never to hope again.
Never to lie and take his natural rest
Never yet branded with suspicion?
Never, O never, shall I see more joy.
Newly preferr'd from the King's secretary;
No bending knee will call thee Caesar now,
No doubt he will requite it. This is noted,
No friends, no hope; no kindred weep for me;
No great offence belongs to't, give your friend
No humble suitors press to speak for right,
No judge indifferent, nor no more assurance
No more my king, for he dishonours me,
No more to th' crown but that. Lo, who comes here?
No new device to beat this from his brains?
No other obligation! By my life,
No other speaker of my living actions,
No sun shall ever usher forth mine honours,
No way to fly, nor strength to hold out flight.
No, Exeter, these graces challenge grace;
No, God forbid that I should wish them sever'd
No, Harry, Harry, 'tis no land of thine;
No, Warwick, no; while life upholds this arm,
No, if thou dost say no to my demand.
No, no, my heart will burst, an if I speak-
No, not a man comes for redress of thee;
No, we'll no Bullens. Speedily I wish
None better in my kingdom. Get you gone,
Nor build their evils on the graves of great men,
Nor can my tongue unload my heart's great burden,
Nor forward of revenge, though they much err'd.
Nor how to be contented with one wife,
Nor how to shroud yourself from enemies?
Nor how to study for the people's welfare,
Nor how to use your brothers brotherly,
Nor keep his princely heart from Richard's hand.
Nor much oppress'd them with great subsidies,
Nor posted off their suits with slow delays;
Nor shall not while I have a stamp.
Nor shall not, when my fancy's on my play.
Nor shall this peace sleep with her; but as when
Nor to betray you any way to sorrow-
Nor will I sue, although the King have mercies
Nor wittingly have I infring'd my vow.
Nor, I'll assure you, better taken, sir.
Northampton, and in Leicestershire, shalt find
Not as a groom. There's some of ye, I see,
Not being torn a pieces, we have done.
Not deck'd with diamonds and Indian stones,
Not for delights; times to repair our nature
Not friended by his wish, to your high person
Not he that sets his foot upon her back,
Not his that spoils her young before her face.
Not knowing how to find the open air,
Not like the fruit of such a goodly tree.
Not mutinous in peace, yet bold in war;
Not only good and wise but most religious;
Not ours, or not allow'd; what worst, as oft
Not separated with the racking clouds,
Not that I fear to stay, but love to go
Not that I pity Henry's misery,
Not to be seen. My crown is call'd content;
Not to come off, in his displeasure.
Not to the beast that would usurp their den.
Not unconsidered leave your honour nor
Not us'd to toil, did almost sweat to bear
Not wake him in his slumber. A beggar's book
Not well dispos'd, the mind growing once corrupt,
Not willing any longer conference,
Not you, correct him. My heart weeps to see him
Not your demand; it values not your asking.
Now are they but one lamp, one light, one sun.
Now blessed be the hour, by night or day,
Now buckler falsehood with a pedigree?
Now death shall stop his dismal threat'ning sound,
Now for a while farewell, good Duke of York.
Now for this night let's harbour here in York;
Now if the help of Norfolk and myself,
Now in his ashes honour. Peace be with him!
Now join your hands, and with your hands your hearts,
Now march we hence. Discharge the common sort
Now my soul's palace is become a prison.
Now one the better, then another best;
Now present here together; that's to say
Now stops thy spring; my sea shall suck them dry,
Now sways it that way, like the selfsame sea
Now sways it this way, like a mighty sea
Now therefore be it known to noble Lewis
Now therefore let us hence, and lose no hour
Now thou art gone, we have no staff, no stay.
Now, Lovell, from the Queen what is the news?
Now, Montague, sit fast; I seek for thee,
Now, brother king, farewell, and sit you fast,
Now, brother of Gloucester, Lord Hastings, and the rest,
Now, if you can blush and cry guilty, Cardinal,
Now, lords, take leave until we meet again,
Numbering our Ave-Maries with our beads?
O Clifford, boist'rous Clifford, thou hast slain
O God! methinks it were a happy life
O Lancaster, I fear thy overthrow
O Margaret, thus 'twill be; and thou, poor soul,
O Phoebus, hadst thou never given consent
O boy, thy father gave thee life too soon,
O brave young Prince! thy famous grandfather
O heavy times, begetting such events!
O me, 'tis my mother! How now, good lady!
O miserable thought! and more unlikely
O monstrous fault to harbour such a thought!
O my Lord Aberga'ny, fare you well!
O old Sir Robert, father, on my knee
O pity, pity, gentle heaven, pity!
O that my death would stay these ruthful deeds!
O valiant lord, the Duke of York is slain!
O yes, it doth; a thousand-fold it doth.
O' th' Rolls, and the King's secretary; further, sir,
O' th' jewel House,
O'ermount the lark. The Marchioness of Pembroke!
O'ertopping woman's pow'r. Madam, you do me wrong:
O, 'tis a burden, Cromwell, 'tis a burden
O, 'tis a tender place! and I must leave her.              Exeunt
O, God forgive my sins and pardon thee!               [Dies]
O, may such purple tears be always shed
O, my lord, y'are tardy,
O, now doth Death line his dead chaps with steel;
O, pity, God, this miserable age!
Obeying in commanding, and thy parts
Obeying with my wind when I do blow,
Of Canterbury, accompanied with other
Of Coeur-de-lion knighted in the field.
Of England's true-anointed lawful King.
Of Hereford, Stafford, and Northampton, I
Of Lewis the Dauphin and that lovely maid.
Of a full-charg'd confederacy, and give thanks
Of a rude stream, that must for ever hide me.
Of all that world of wealth I have drawn together
Of all the gentry; for the most part such
Of all the kingdom. Many more there are,
Of all their loyalties; wherein, although,
Of all these ears-for where I am robb'd and bound,
Of all these learned men, she was divorc'd,
Of all this table, say so.
Of an ensuing evil, if it fall,
Of an unbounded stomach, ever ranking
Of as great size. Ween you of better luck,
Of both your armies, whose equality
Of bringing back the prisoner.
Of disposition gentle and of wisdom
Of divers witnesses; which the Duke desir'd
Of equal friendship and proceeding. Alas, sir,
Of every realm, that did debate this business,
Of fool and feather that they got in France,
Of force enough to bid his brother battle;
Of gleaning all the land's wealth into one,
Of her that loves him with that excellence
Of him it holds, stands young Plantagenet,
Of his own body he was ill, and gave
Of lords and ladies, having brought the Queen
Of me more must be heard of, say I taught thee-
Of mine own way; I know you wise, religious;
Of my alleged reasons, drives this forward.
Of my long weary life is come upon me.
Of my petition.
Of noble Buckingham, my father-in-law.
Of our despis'd nobility, our issues,
Of our flesh; few are angels; out of which frailty
Of our most sovereign King.
Of private conference.
Of singular integrity and learning,
Of such a time: being my sworn servant,
Of sweet young Rutland, by rough Clifford slain;
Of that I doubt, as all men's children may.
Of the Cinque-ports.
Of the Duke's confessor, John de la Car,
Of the King's grace and pardon. The grieved commons
Of the Lord Bonville on your new wife's son,
Of the good Queen, but the sharp thorny points
Of the great Duke of Buckingham.
Of the right reverend Cardinal of York.
Of the whole state; as of late days our neighbours,
Of thee thyself and all thy complices,
Of thee, which says thus: 'Do my Lord of Canterbury
Of these exactions, yet the King our master-
Of this commission? I believe, not any.
Of this great sport together, as you guess?
Of this man to be vex'd?
Of this new marriage with the Lady Grey?
Of this new sect? Ye are not sound.
Of this oppressed boy; this is thy eldest son's son,
Of this so noble and so fair assembly
Of those that claim their offices this day,
Of thousand friends; then, in a moment, see
Of threescore and two years- a silly time
Of thy deceased brother Geffrey's son,
Of thy unnatural uncle, English John.
Of unrelenting Clifford and the Queen,
Of what I saw there.
Of what coarse metal ye are moulded-envy;
Of which there is not one, I dare avow-
Of whom you seem to have so tender care?
Of your best graces in your mind; the which
Of your soft cheveril conscience would receive
Offering their own lives in their young's defence
Offers, as I do, in a sign of peace,
Oft have I heard his praises in pursuit,
Old as I am, to queen it. But, I pray you,
On May-day morning; which will never be.
On that celestial harmony I go to.
On the complaint o' th' tenants. Take good heed
On this removed issue, plagued for her
On you than any, so your hand and heart,
Once every hour.
Once more, my Lord of Winchester, I charge you,
One Gilbert Peck, his chancellor-
One care abroad; he would have all as merry
One general tongue unto us, this good man,
One must prove greatest. While they weigh so even,
One syllable against him?
One that in all obedience makes the church
One that ne'er dream'd a joy beyond his pleasure,
One way or other, she is for a king;
Only a show or two, and so agree
Only about her coronation.
Only to show his pomp as well in France
Open the gates; we are King Henry's friends.
Open your gates and give the victors way.
Or God will punish me. I do believe,
Or add a royal number to the dead,
Or any he, the proudest of thy sort.
Or as a bear, encompass'd round with dogs,
Or as thy father and his father did,
Or bath'd thy growing with our heated bloods.
Or be a known friend, 'gainst his Highness' pleasure-
Or bide the mortal fortune of the field?
Or but allay the fire of passion.
Or by his foe surpris'd at unawares;
Or did he make the jest against his will?
Or die renowned by attempting it.
Or died where they were made, or shortly after
Or else come after. I'll away before.
Or else it must go wrong with you and me;
Or else you famish- that's a threefold death.
Or felt the flatteries that grow upon it!
Or fortune given me measure of revenge.
Or gentleman that is not freely merry
Or gild again the noble troops that waited
Or had he scap'd, methinks we should have heard
Or has given all before, and he begins
Or hew my way out with a bloody axe.
Or how far further shall, is warranted
Or lay on that shall make your shoulders crack.
Or let me lose the fashion of a man!
Or like an idle thresher with a flail,
Or made it not mine too? Or which of your friends
Or modest Dian circled with her nymphs,
Or more than common fear of Clifford's rigour,
Or pack to their old playfellows. There, I take it,
Or shall we beat the stones about thine ears?
Or shall we give the signal to our rage,
Or shall we on the helmets of our foes
Or some about him near have, out of malice
Or springhalt reign'd among 'em.
Or than for strength and safety of our country.
Or the reputed son of Coeur-de-lion,
Or this imperious man will work us an
Or touch of her good person?
Or whether 'twas report of her success,
Or whether he be scap'd away or no
Or wolf, or both-for he is equal rav'nous
Order gave each thing view. The office did
Orphans for their parents' timeless death-
Our abbeys and our priories shall pay
Our baleful news and at each word's deliverance
Our battles join'd, and both sides fiercely fought;
Our cannons' malice vainly shall be spent
Our cause that she should lie i' th' bosom of
Our colours do return in those same hands
Our daughter Mary. I' th' progress of this business,
Our dukedom till God please to send the rest.
Our former scruple in our strong-barr'd gates;
Our hard-rul'd King. Again, there is sprung up
Our just and lineal entrance to our own!
Our king has all the Indies in his arms,
Our lusty English, all with purpled hands,
Our merchants' goods at Bordeaux.
Our messenger Chatillon is arriv'd.
Our mistress' sorrows we were pitying.
Our necessary actions in the fear
Our own brains, and the opinion that we bring
Our people and our peers are both misled,
Our ranks are broke, and ruin follows us.
Our reasons laid before him-hath commanded
Our reverend Cardinal carried.
Our scouts have found the adventure very easy;
Our slaught'red friends the tackles; what of these?
Our soldiers', like the night-owl's lazy flight
Our title to the crown, and only claim
Our treasure seiz'd, our soldiers put to flight,
Our trumpet call'd you to this gentle parle-
Our trusty friend, unless I be deceiv'd.
Out of a foreign wisdom-renouncing clean
Out of a fortitude of soul I feel,
Out of himself?
Out of his grace he adds.
Out of his self-drawing web, 'a gives us note
Out of one side her happy minion,
Out of our easiness and childish pity
Out of the Duke of Buckingham.
Out of the King's protection. This is my charge.
Out of the great respect they bear to beauty,
Out of the gripes of cruel men and give it
Out of the pain you suffer'd, gave no ear to't.
Out of this world. Tell him in death I bless'd him,
Out of thy honest truth, to play the woman.
Out with it boldly; truth loves open dealing.
Outfaced infant state, and done a rape
Outworths a noble's blood.
Over the King in's tongue.
PETER OF POMFRET, a prophet
PHILIP THE BASTARD, his half-brother
PRINCE HENRY, his son
Pace 'em not in their hands to make 'em gentle,
Pageants, and sights of honour.
Pages, and footboys.
Paid ere he promis'd; whereby his suit was granted
Papers of state he sent me to peruse,
Pardon me, Edward, I will make amends;
Pardon me, God, I knew not what I did.
Pass away frowning.
Pass'd over to the end they were created,
Patrum, and there they are like to dance these three days;
Peep through each part of him. Whence has he that?
Peep'd harms that menac'd him-privily
Pembroke and Stafford, you in our behalf
Pembroke, look to 't. Farewell, Chatillon.
Perceive I speak sincerely and high notes
Perforce be their acquaintance. These exactions,
Perhaps thou wilt object my holy oath.
Persever not, but hear me, mighty kings.
Pertaining thereunto-as fights and fireworks;
Pertains to th' state, and front but in that file
Petitioners for blood thou ne'er put'st back.
Philip, good old Sir Robert's wife's eldest son.
Pierce into that; but I can see his pride
Place you that side; I'll take the charge of this.
Please you dismiss me, either with ay or no.
Poor harmless lambs abide their enmity.
Poor queen and son, your labour is but lost;
Possess your fancy.
Possession of a subject.
Power as he was a councillor to try him,
Pray do my service to his Majesty;
Pray for me! I must now forsake ye; the last hour
Pray heaven he sound not my disgrace! For certain,
Pray heaven the King may never find a heart
Pray sit between these ladies.
Pray speak in English. Here are some will thank you,
Press not a falling man too far! 'Tis virtue.
Princess of England, Elizabeth!
Prithee call Gardiner to me, my new secretary;
Prithee come hither: what fair lady's that?
Prithee let's walk. Now, by my holidame,
Prithee return. With thy approach I know
Prithee to bed; and in thy pray'rs remember
Proclaims him king, and many fly to him.
Produce the grand sum of his sins, the articles
Promises boys hereafter. Sir, your queen
Pronounce dishonour of her-by my life,
Protect mine innocence, or I fall into
Proud setter up and puller down of kings!
Prove but our marriage lawful, by my life
Pursu'd him still And three nights after this,
Put my sick cause into his hands that hates me?
QUEEN ELINOR, widow of King Henry II and mother to
ROBERT FAULCONBRIDGE, son to Sir Robert Faulconbridge
Rash, inconsiderate, fiery voluntaries,
Rather, lost more. And by this hand I swear,
Ready to fight; therefore be resolute.
Refuse you for my judge, whom yet once more
Reignier, her father, to the King of France
Religiously provokes. Be pleased then
Remember in my prayers.
Remember your bold life too.
Remembrance of my father-in-law, the Duke,
Remove these thoughts from you; the which before
Removed from thy sin-conceiving womb.
Repeat your will, and take it.
Repurchas'd with the blood of enemies.
Requires slow pace at first. Anger is like
Rescue those breathing lives to die in beds
Resign thy chair, and where I stand kneel thou,
Resolve my doubt. You twain, of all the rest,
Respecting this our marriage with the dowager,
Restor'd me to my honours, and out of ruins
Revenge upon the Cardinal.
Rich stuffs, and ornaments of household; which
Richard, I bear thy name; I'll venge thy death,
Richard, I will create thee Duke of Gloucester;
Richard, be Duke of Gloucester. Now to London
Richard, that robb'd the lion of his heart
Richly in two short hours. Only they
Sad, high, and working, full of state and woe,
Said 'twas the fear indeed and that he doubted
Said I for this the girl was like to him! I'll
Saint Lawrence Poultney, did of me demand
Salute thee for her king. Till then, fair boy,
Salutes ye all; this night he dedicates
Save in aspect, hath all offence seal'd up;
Saving in dialogue of compliment,
Saving your mincing, the capacity
Saw ye none enter since I slept?
Saw you the Cardinal?
Say Warwick was our anchor; what of that?
Say Wolsey, that once trod the ways of glory,
Say ay, and of a boy.
Say his long trouble now is passing
Say that King Edward take thee for his queen?
Say you can swim; alas, 'tis but a while!
Say, shall the current of our right run on?
Saying he'll lade it dry to have his way-
Scarce serves to quench my furnace-burning heart;
Scholars allow'd freely to argue for her.
Scotland hath will to help, but cannot help;
Scruple, and prick, on certain speeches utter'd
See how my sword weeps for the poor King's death.
See how the morning opes her golden gates
See that forthwith Duke Edward be convey'd
See who it is.
See, see! they join, embrace, and seem to kiss,
Seek me out, and that way I am wife in,
Seeking a way and straying from the way
Seems to flow from him! How, i' th' name of thrift,
Self-mettle tires him. Not a man in England
Sends me a paper to persuade me patience?
Sends you his princely commendations
Sent down among 'em which hath flaw'd the heart
Sent from your brother, Marquis Montague.
Serve the King, and-prithee lead me in.
Shadowing their right under your wings of war.
Shall be call'd queen, but princess dowager
Shall be, and make new nations; he shall flourish,
Shall cross the seas and bid false Edward battle:
Shall cry for blessings on him. May he live
Shall do and undo as him pleaseth best.
Shall draw this brief into as huge a volume.
Shall e'er divorce my dignities.
Shall for the fault make forfeit of his head.
Shall govern England."'
Shall have a high reward, and he his life?
Shall leave his native channel and o'erswell
Shall mark my grave. Commend me to his Grace;
Shall rain their drift of bullets on this town.
Shall rest in London till we come to him.
Shall rue the hour that ever thou wast born.
Shall see this and bless heaven.
Shall shine at full upon them. Some attend him.
Shall star-like rise, as great in fame as she was,
Shall still be doubled on her. Truth shall nurse her,
Shall then be his, and like a vine grow to him;
Shall understand it presently.                               Exit
Shall waft them over with our royal fleet.
Shall we go throw away our coats of steel
Shall, whiles thy head is warm and new cut off,
Shalt stir up in Suffolk, Norfolk, and in Kent,
Sham'st thou not, knowing whence thou art extraught,
Shame on himself! for my desert is honour;
She better would have fitted me or Clarence;
She did corrupt frail nature with some bribe
She had all the royal makings of a queen:
She had the wrong. But what said Henry's queen?
She intends unto his Holiness.
She is a gallant creature, and complete
She is young, and of a noble modest nature;
She must, the saints must have her-yet a virgin;
She ne'er had known pomp; though't be temporal,
She never knew harm-doing-O, now, after
She shall be lov'd and fear'd. Her own shall bless her:
She should have bought her dignities so dear.              Exeunt
She was often cited by them, but appear'd not.
She weeps, and says her Henry is depos'd:
She will be sick else. This day, no man think
She'll with the labour end.
She's a good creature, and, sweet lady, does
She's a stranger now again.
She's going away.
She, on his left side, craving aid for Henry:
Shed seas of tears, and ne'er be satisfied!
Shipwreck'd upon a kingdom, where no pity,
Shone down the English; and to-morrow they
Short blist'red breeches, and those types of travel
Short tale to make- we at Saint Albans met,
Should find a running banquet ere they rested
Should have gone off.
Should leave the helm and, like a fearful lad,
Should lose his birthright by his father's fault,
Should not be able to encounter mine.
Should not become my wife and England's Queen.
Should notwithstanding join our lights together
Should the approach of this wild river break,
Should without issue die, he'll carry it so
Should, if a coward hear her speak these words,
Should, notwithstanding that your bond of duty,
Show thy descent by gazing 'gainst the sun;
Show'd like a mine. Their dwarfish pages were
Show'r'd on me daily, have been more than could
Shut door upon me, and so give me up
Since last we saw in France?
Since thou deniest the gentle King to speak.
Since virtue finds no friends-a wife, a true one?
Since when, his oath is broke; for, as I hear,
Since which she was removed to Kimbolton,
Since you provoke me, shall be most notorious.
Sing and disperse 'em, if thou canst. Leave working.
Sink in the ground? I thought it would have mounted.
Sir Gilbert Peck his chancellor, and John Car,
Sir Robert could do: well-marry, to confess-
Sir Robert might have eat his part in me
Sir Robert never holp to make this leg.
Sir Robert's son! Why scorn'st thou at Sir Robert?
Sir, as I have a soul, she is an angel;
Sir-I may tell it you-I think I have
Sirrah, look to 't; i' faith I will, i' faith.
Sit down with us. It ill befits thy state
Sits on's horse back at mine hostess' door,
Sleep in their graves.
Smacks it not something of the policy?
Smiles at her news, while Warwick frowns at his.
So 'twere not long of him; but being ent'red,
So I grow stronger, you more honour gain.                  Exeunt
So York may overlook the town of York.
So dear in heart not to deny her that
So deep suspicion, where all faith was meant
So do I wish the crown, being so far off;
So doth my heart misgive me, in these conflicts,
So excellent in art, and still so rising,
So far'd our father with his enemies;
So fare you well, my little good Lord Cardinal.
So first the harmless sheep doth yield his fleece,
So fled his enemies my warlike father.
So good a lady that no tongue could ever
So good, so noble, and so true a master?
So hence! Be thou the trumpet of our wrath
So is the equal poise of this fell war.
So little of his great self.
So long as Edward is thy constant friend
So many courses of the sun enthroned,
So many days my ewes have been with young;
So many hours must I contemplate;
So many hours must I sport myself;
So many hours must I take my rest;
So many hours must I tend my flock;
So many weeks ere the poor fools will can;
So many years ere I shall shear the fleece:
So minutes, hours, days, months, and years,
So much my conscience whispers in your ear,
So much they love it; but to stubborn spirits
So shall she leave her blessedness to one-
So shalt thou sinew both these lands together;
So strangely in one piece.
So sweet a bedfellow? But, conscience, conscience!
So that we fled: the King unto the Queen;
So we, well cover'd with the night's black mantle,
So went to bed; where eagerly his sickness
So your dislikes, to whom I would be pleasing,
So, now y'are fairly seated. Gentlemen,
So, underneath the belly of their steeds,
So-now, methinks, I feel a little ease.
Some dreadful story hanging on thy tongue?
Some little memory of me will stir him-
Some of these articles; and out they shall.
Some proper man, I hope. Who was it, mother?
Some sins do bear their privilege on earth,
Some spirit put this paper in the packet
Some touch of your late business. Affairs that walk-
Some troops pursue the bloody-minded Queen
Some trumpet summon hither to the walls
Something I can command. As I walk thither,
Something about, a little from the right,
Something mistaken in't.
Sometime the flood prevails, and then the wind;
Sometimes our brother's wife. This respite shook
Son Edward, she is fair and virtuous,
Son to the elder brother of this man,
Sound drums and trumpets. Farewell, sour annoy!
Sound trumpets; let our bloody colours wave,
Sovereign and pious else, could speak thee out-
Sparing would show a worse sin than ill doctrine:
Speak freely what you think.
Speak gentle words, and humbly bend thy knee,
Speak how I fell. I have done; and God forgive me!
Speak suddenly, my lords- are we all friends?
Speak, Clifford, dost thou know who speaks to thee?
Spoke by a holy monk 'that oft' says he
Springs not from Edward's well-meant honest love,
Springs out into fast gait; then stops again,
Stab poinards in our flesh till all were told,
Stand close up, or I'll make your head ache.
Stand these poor people's friend, and urge the King
Stand we in good array, for they no doubt
Stand you thus close to steal the Bishop's deer?
Stands in the gap and trade of moe preferments,
State-statues only.
Stay not for the love of Edward but the crown.
Stay we no longer, dreaming of renown,
Stay'd me a prisoner in my chamber when
Stifle the villain whose unstanched thirst
Still growing in a majesty and pomp, the which
Still in thy right hand carry gentle peace
Still met the King, lov'd him next heav'n, obey'd him,
Still ride in triumph over all mischance.
Stood here observing him. Some strange commotion
Stops on a sudden, looks upon the ground,
Strangely neglected? When did he regard
Strength match'd with strength, and power confronted power;
Strike up the drum; cry 'Courage!' and away.          Exeunt
Strikes his breast hard; and anon he casts
Stubborn to justice, apt to accuse it, and
Subjected tribute to commanding love,
Submit thee, boy.
Successful fortune, steel thy melting heart
Such a compounded one?
Such as befits the pleasure of the court?
Such as she is, in beauty, virtue, birth,
Such doubts as false coin from it. The King loves you;
Such is the lightness of you common men.
Such noble scenes as draw the eye to flow,
Suggest but truth to my divining thoughts,
Suppose that I am now my father's mouth;
Suppose this arm is for the Duke of York,
Sweet, sweet, sweet poison for the age's tooth;
T' oppose your cunning. Y'are meek and humble-mouth'd;
T'attend your Highness' pleasure.
Ta'en of your many virtues, the King's Majesty
Take heed, for heaven's sake take heed, lest at once
Take him, and use him well, he's worthy of it.
Take notice, lords, he has a loyal breast,
Take on with me, and ne'er be satisfied!
Take up the rays o' th' beneficial sun,
Talk us to silence.
Teach us some fence!  [To AUSTRIA]  Sirrah, were I at home,
Tears then for babes; blows and revenge for me!
Teeth hadst thou in thy head when thou wast born,
Tell me for truth the measure of his love
Tell me if you love Warwick more than me?
Tell me some reason why the Lady Grey
Tell me their words as near as thou canst guess them.
Tell our devotion with revengeful arms?
Tell you the Duke, shall prosper; bid him strive
Th' advantage of his absence took the King,
Th' ambassador is silenc'd?
Th' are come already from the christening.
Th' estate of my poor queen. Leave me alone,
Th' occasion shall instruct you. If entreaties
Th' usurper Richard; who, being at Salisbury,
Than I myself, poor man.
Than Jephtha when he sacrific'd his daughter.
Than Marchioness of Pembroke; to which tide
Than all the rest, discharg'd me with these words:
Than bear so low a sail to strike to thee.
Than but once think this place becomes thee not.
Than can my ears that tragic history.
Than doth a rich embroider'd canopy
Than e'er the coward hand of France can win.
Than ever they were fair. This man so complete,
Than if thou never hadst deserv'd our hate.
Than in possession any jot of pleasure.
Than man could give him, he died fearing God.
Than my weak-hearted enemies dare offer.
Than now the English bottoms have waft o'er
Than the constraint of hospitable zeal
Than this pure soul shall be. All princely graces
Than thou and John in manners-being as Eke
Than to accomplish twenty golden crowns.
Than to be perk'd up in a glist'ring grief
Than vainly longing. What we oft do best,
Than was his will to get me, as I think.
Thanks you for this great care; I stood i' th' level
That Bevis was believ'd.
That Bona shall be wife to the English king.
That Christendom shall ever speak his virtue.
That Clarence is so harsh, so blunt, unnatural,
That Clifford's manhood lies upon his tongue.
That Edward shall be fearful of his life;
That Geffrey was thy elder brother born,
That Henry liveth still; but were he dead,
That Henry, sole possessor of my love,
That I advise your shunning.
That I am clear from this misdeed of Edward's-
That I am free of your report, he knows
That I gainsay my deed, how may he wound,
That I have been your wife in this obedience
That I have blown this coal: I do deny it.
That I in all despite might rail at him,
That I may never have you in suspect.
That I must yield my body to the earth
That I should snarl, and bite, and play the dog.
That I was not ignoble of descent:
That Lewis of France is sending over masquers
That Lewis of France is sending over masquers
That Margaret your Queen and my son Edward
That Phaethon should check thy fiery steeds,
That Warwick's bones may keep thine company.            Exit
That am a poor and humble subject to you?
That angels love good men with; even of her
That any Englishman dare give me counsel?
That as Ulysses and stout Diomede
That as a waist doth girdle you about
That bear a weighty and a serious brow,
That blind priest, like the eldest son of fortune,
That cannot be; you are a councillor,
That carries no impression like the dam.
That chair stand empty; but we all are men,
That come to hear a merry bawdy play,
That cries 'Retire!' if Warwick bid him stay.
That did display them when we first march'd forth;
That did disrobe the lion of that robe!
That does infect the land; with which they moved
That done, dissever your united strengths
That doth not smack of observation-
That durst disperse it.
That e'er I heard. Shall I produce the men?
That ever lay by man; which when the people
That fed him with his prophecies?
That fill the court with quarrels, talk, and tailors.
That for thine own gain shouldst defend mine honour?
That for your Highness' good I ever labour'd
That from his loins no hopeful branch may spring
That gentle physic, given in time, had cur'd me;
That gentleman of Buckingham's. In person
That glues my lips and will not let me speak.
That had a head to hit, either young or old,
That had not half a week to go, like rams
That had to him deriv'd your anger did
That he is not only plagued for her sin,
That he may furnish and instruct great teachers
That he ran mad and died.
That he would please to alter the King's course,
That he's revengeful; and I know his sword
That here come sacrifices for the field.
That his chief followers lodge in towns about him,
That holds in chase mine honour up and down?
That holy duty, out of dear respect,
That hot rash haste so indirectly shed.
That if King Lewis vouchsafe to furnish us
That if about this hour he make this way,
That if our Queen and this young Prince agree,
That in mine ear I durst not stick a rose
That in the way of loyalty and truth
That in their chains fetter'd the kingly lion
That is my brother's plea, and none of mine;
That is new-trimm'd, but benefit no further
That is removed by a staff of France;
That is well known- and, as I think, one father;
That is, a fair young maid that yet wants baptism;
That it do singe yourself. We may outrun
That it shall please you to declare in hearing
That judge hath made me guardian to this boy,
That know not how to use ambassadors,
That labour, sir. All's now done but the ceremony
That led calm Henry, though he were a king,
That like a jewel has hung twenty years
That little thought, when she set footing here,
That longer you desire the court, as well
That love which virtue begs and virtue grants.
That made me happy, at one stroke has taken
That man i' th' world who shall report he has
That many maz'd considerings did throng
That marry wives. Tell me, how if my brother,
That might have mercy on the fault thou gav'st him;
That mought not be distinguish'd; but at last,
That mould up such a mighty piece as this is,
That ne'er shall dine unless thou yield the crown.
That never knew what truth meant; I now seal it;
That never saw 'em pace before, the spavin
That no dissension hinder government.
That no king can corrupt.
That nothing sung but death to us and ours.
That once was mistress of the field, and flourish'd,
That once were his, and is become as black
That only Warwick's daughter shall be thine.
That paper in your hand?
That promises moe thousands: honour's train
That rents the thorns and is rent with the thorns,
That right in peace which here we urge in war,
That robb'd my soldiers of their heated spleen,
That seeks despatch by day.
That she should feel the smart of this? The Cardinal
That she was coming with a full intent
That she, poor wretch, for grief can speak no more;
That sought to be encompass'd with your crown.
That stain'd their fetlocks in his smoking blood,
That still I lay upon my mother's head;
That such a keech can with his very bulk
That sun, I pray, may never set! I have told him
That sure th' have worn out Christendom.
That swallowed so much treasure and like a glass
That sways the earth this climate overlooks,
That sweet aspect of princes, and their ruin
That taught his son the office of a fowl!
That the great child of honour, Cardinal Wolsey,
That there's no hop'd-for mercy with the brothers
That therefore such a writ be sued against you:
That they do hold their course toward Tewksbury;
That they had gather'd a wise council to them
That they have caught the King; and who knows yet
That they may have their wages duly paid 'em,
That they'll take no offence at our abuse.
That things ill got had ever bad success?
That this his love was an eternal plant
That this my mother's son was none of his;
That thou art malcontent? I will provide thee.
That thou hast under-wrought his lawful king,
That thou mayst be a queen and check the world!
That thou might'st repossess the crown in peace;
That through our intercession this revokement
That thus you should proceed to put me of
That to my foes this body must be prey,
That to my home I will no more return
That to their everlasting residence,
That virtue must go through. We must not stint
That virtuous Lady Bona, thy fair sister,
That was sent to me from the Council pray'd me
That wash'd his father's fortunes forth of France
That water-walled bulwark, still secure
That we adjourn this court till further day;
That we could hear no news of his repair?
That we, the sons of brave Plantagenet,
That were the authors.
That were the servants to this chosen infant,
That when I am in heaven I shall desire
That will encounter with our glorious sun
That will take pains to blow a horn before her?
That will undo her. To confirm this too,
That winter should cut off our spring-time so.
That with the King here resteth in his tent?
That would not be a queen, that would she not,
That you have many enemies that know not
That you stand pensive as half malcontent?
That you would love yourself, and in that love
That young Prince Edward marries Warwick's daughter.
That your estate requires and mine can yield.
That's Christian care enough. For living murmurers
That's clapp'd upon the court gate.
That's paragon'd o' th' world.
That's the plain truth. Your painted gloss discovers,
That, as my hand has open'd bounty to you,
That, had the King in his last sickness fail'd,
That, in this case of justice, my accusers,
That, though I want a kingdom, yet in marriage
That, to deserve well at my brother's hands,
That, when the greatest stroke of fortune falls,
The Cardinal instantly will find employment,
The Cardinal is the end of this.
The Cardinal!
The Cardinal's and Sir Thomas Lovell's heads
The Cardinal's malice and his potency
The Duke being at the Rose, within the parish
The Duke is coming; see the barge be ready;
The Duke of Buckingham came from his trial.
The Duke of Suffolk is the first, and claims
The Duke of Suffolk?
The Duke retain'd him his. But on: what hence?
The French King's sister. Heaven will one day open
The French King's sister; he shall marry her.
The King by this is set him down to sleep.
The King cried 'Ha!' at this.
The King has gone beyond me. All my glories
The King has sent me otherwhere; besides,
The King hath of you.  [Aside]  I have perus'd her well:
The King is present; if it be known to him
The King shall have my service; but my prayers
The King shall know it, and, no doubt, shall thank you.
The King t' attach Lord Montacute and the bodies
The King will suffer but the little finger
The King will venture at it. Either the Cardinal
The King's attorney, on the contrary,
The King's eyes, that so long have slept upon
The King's late scruple, by the main assent
The King's physician; as he pass'd along,
The King's request that I would visit you,
The King, your father, was reputed for
The Lady Anne pass from her coronation?
The Lord forbid!
The Princess Dowager? How goes her business?
The Pyrenean and the river Po-
The Queen being absent, 'tis a needful fitness
The Queen from France hath brought a puissant power;
The Queen hath best success when you are absent.
The Queen is comfortless, and we forgetful
The Queen is coming with a puissant host,
The Queen is put in anger. Y'are excus'd.
The Spaniard, tied by blood and favour to her,
The Viscount Rochford-one of her Highness' women.
The accent of his tongue affecteth him.
The action of good women; there is hope
The air hath got into my deadly wounds,
The air will drink the sap. To every county
The archbishopric of Toledo, this is purpos'd.
The articles o' th' combination drew
The aweless lion could not wage the fight
The back is sacrifice to th' load. They say
The beauty of her person to the people.
The beauty of this kingdom, I'll assure you.
The best persuasions to the contrary
The bird of wonder dies, the maiden phoenix
The borrowed majesty, of England here.
The bosom of my conscience, enter'd me,
The bruit thereof will bring you many friends.
The burden of my sorrows fall upon ye.
The business present; 'tis his Highness' pleasure
The cable broke, the holding-anchor lost,
The cannons have their bowels full of wrath,
The canon of the law is laid on him,
The cause betwixt her and this great offender.
The ceremony?
The chief aim of his honour and, to strengthen
The chief cause concerns his Grace of Canterbury.
The chronicles of my doing, let me say
The clergy ill example.
The cloth of honour over her are four barons
The clothiers all, not able to maintain
The common people by numbers swarm to us.
The common people swarm like summer flies;
The common voice, I see, is verified
The cordial that ye bring a wretched lady-
The cost that did conclude it.
The court of Rome commanding-you, my Lord
The daring'st counsel which I had to doubt,
The daughter of a king, my drops of tears
The dews of heaven fall thick in blessings on her!-
The dignity of your office, is the point
The dominations, royalties, and rights,
The drum your Honour hears marcheth from Warwick.
The due o' th' verdict with it; at what ease
The execution of my big-swol'n heart
The faith they have in tennis, and tall stockings,
The farthest limit of my embassy.
The fatal colours of our striving houses:
The fire that mounts the liquor till't run o'er
The first and happiest hearers of the town,
The flinty ribs of this contemptuous city.
The flow'r of Europe for his chivalry;
The foe is merciless and will not pity;
The force of his own merit makes his way-
The force of this commission. Pray, look tot;
The fore-recited practices, whereof
The foulness is the punishment. I presume
The friends of France our shrouds and tacklings?
The full cause of our coming.
The gentleman is learn'd and a most rare speaker;
The good I stand on is my truth and honesty;
The goodness of your intercepted packets
The grave does to the dead; for her male issue
The greatness of his person.
The happy tidings of his good escape.
The heads of all thy brother cardinals,
The hearts of princes kiss obedience,
The high promotion of his Grace of Canterbury;
The honey of his language. No, he's settled,
The honourable board of council out,
The hopes of court! My hopes in heaven do dwell.           Exeunt
The image of his Maker, hope to win by it?
The interruption of their churlish drums
The justice and the truth o' th' question carries
The king was slily finger'd from the deck!
The knights and gentlemen to come with thee.
The lag end of their lewdness and be laugh'd at.
The lamb will never cease to follow him.
The last fit of my greatness-good your Graces,
The last is for my men-they are the poorest,
The law I bear no malice for my death:
The least rub in your fortunes, fall away
The leaves and fruit maintain'd with beauty's sun,
The letter, as I live, with all the business
The lustful Edward's title buried-
The many to them 'longing, have put of
The master-cord on's heart!
The merciful construction of good women;
The merry songs of peace to all his neighbours.
The midwife wonder'd; and the women cried
The mirror of all courtesy-
The model of our chaste loves, his young daughter-
The monk might be deceiv'd, and that 'twas dangerous
The most convenient place that I can think of
The most remark'd i' th' kingdom. As for Cromwell,
The nature of it? In what kind, let's know,
The net has fall'n upon me! I shall perish
The next degree is England's royal throne,
The night-crow cried, aboding luckless time;
The noble gentleman gave up the ghost.
The noble spirits to arms, they did perform
The offer of this time, I cannot promise
The one his purple blood right well resembles;
The other his pale cheeks, methinks, presenteth.
The other moiety ere you ask is given;
The other's peace. Till then, blows, blood, and death!
The other, London.
The other, though unfinish'd, yet so famous,
The owl shriek'd at thy birth- an evil sign;
The part my father meant to act upon
The passages made toward it. On my honour,
The peace between the French and us not values
The penance lies on you if these fair ladies
The play may pass, if they be still and willing,
The pride upon them, that their very labour
The prime man of the state? I pray you tell me
The profit of the state. For your great graces
The queen of earthly queens. She's noble born;
The question did at first so stagger me-
The quiet of my wounded conscience,
The rather that you give his offspring life,
The raven rook'd her on the chimney's top,
The red rose and the white are on his face,
The region of my breast, which forc'd such way
The rest stand all aloof and bark at him.
The rod, and bird of peace, and all such emblems
The ruthless Queen gave him to dry his cheeks
The saddest spectacle that e'er I view'd.
The scatt'red foe that hopes to rise again;
The secret of your conference?
The several parcels of his plate, his treasure,
The sides of loyalty, and almost appears
The sixth part of his substance, to be levied
The smallest worm will turn, being trodden on,
The spinsters, carders, fullers, weavers, who
The stamp of nobleness in any person
The state takes notice of the private difference
The subject will deserve it. Such as give
The sudden breach on't.
The sun shines hot; and, if we use delay,
The sun that sear'd the wings of my sweet boy,
The swords of soldiers are his teeth, his fangs;
The tender leaves of hopes; to-morrow blossoms
The thief doth fear each bush an officer.
The third day comes a frost, a killing frost,
The thought of them would have stirr'd up remorse.
The thunder of my cannon shall be heard.
The tiger will be mild whiles she doth mourn;
The times and titles now are alter'd strangely
The trap is laid for me!
The trial just and noble. All the clerks,
The trumpets sound. Stand close, the Queen is coming.
The upper Germany, can dearly witness,
The very persons of our noble story
The very thought of this fair company
The view of earthly glory; men might say,
The virtuous Cranmer.
The way of our profession is against it;
The which if he can prove, 'a pops me out
The whole realm by your teaching and your chaplains-
The wild sea of my conscience, I did steer
The will of heaven be done, and the King's pleasure
The willing'st sin I ever yet committed
The wisest prince that there had reign'd by many
The words would add more anguish than the wounds.
The worthy gentleman did lose his life.
The wrinkles in my brows, now fill'd with blood,
Their armours that march'd hence so silver-bright
Their battering cannon, charged to the mouths,
Their clothes are after such a pagan cut to't,
Their iron indignation 'gainst your walls;
Their money out of hope they may believe
Their power, I think, is thirty thousand strong.
Their proud contempt that beats His peace to heaven!
Their very noses had been counsellors
Their weapons like to lightning came and went:
Then 'tis but reason that I be releas'd
Then I degraded you from being King,
Then after fight who shall be king of it?
Then deputy of Ireland, who remov'd,
Then give my charge up to Sir Nicholas Vaux,
Then in a moment Fortune shall cull forth
Then lay me forth; although unqueen'd, yet like
Then lays his finger on his temple; straight
Then let confusion of one part confirm
Then makes him nothing. I must read this paper;
Then mark th' inducement. Thus it came-give heed to't:
Then none but I shall turn his jest to sorrow.
Then out it goes. What though I know her virtuous
Then rose again, and bow'd her to the people;
Then tell us, shall your city call us lord
Then why should they love Edward more than me?
Then, good my liege, let me have what is mine,
Then, good my mother, let me know my father-
Then, since the heavens have shap'd my body so,
Then, since this earth affords no joy to me
There are that dare; and I myself have ventur'd
There be moe wasps that buzz about his nose
There cannot be those numberless offences
There is a mutiny in's mind. This morning
There is betwixt that smile we would aspire to,
There is indeed; which they would have your Grace
There is no primer business.
There is no wrong, but every thing is right.
There make before them. Look, the good man weeps!
There must I be unloos'd, although not there
There shall I rest secure from force and fraud.
There should be one amongst 'em, by his person,
There stuck no plume in any English crest
There take an inventory of all I have
There to be crowned England's royal King;
There to remain till the King's further pleasure
There was a haberdasher's wife of small wit near him, that
There was a lady once-'tis an old story-
There will be woe indeed, lords: the sly whoresons
There ye shall meet about this weighty business-
There's a good grandam!
There's a trim rabble let in: are all these
There's difference in no persons.
There's in him stuff that puts him to these ends;
There's mischief in this man. Canst thou say further?
There's more in't than fair visage. Bullen!
There's none stands under more calumnious tongues
There's nothing I have done yet, o' my conscience,
There's places of rebuke. He was a fool,
There's thy reward; be gone.                       Exit POST
There's toys abroad-anon I'll tell thee more.
There-on my conscience, put unwittingly?
Thereby to see the minutes how they run-
Therefore delay not- give thy hand to Warwick;
Therefore, Lord Oxford, to prevent the worst,
Therefore, at last, I firmly am resolv'd
Therefore, for goodness sake, and as you are known
Therefore, no more but this: Henry, your sovereign,
Therefore, that I may conquer fortune's spite
Therein illustrated; the honour of it
These are the limbs o' th' plot; no more, I hope.
These are the whole contents; and, good my lord,
These cardinals trifle with me. I abhor
These eyes, that now are dimm'd with death's black veil,
These eyes, these brows, were moulded out of his;
These flags of France, that are advanced here
These from our King unto your Majesty.
These lazy knaves? Y'have made a fine hand, fellows.
These men of Angiers; let us hear them speak
These news are everywhere; every tongue speaks 'em,
These ruin'd pillars, out of pity, taken
These words will cost ten thousand lives this day.
They are a sweet society of fair ones.
They are already, or quickly will be landed.
They are but Lewis and Warwick: I am Edward,
They are devis'd by you, or else you suffer
They are harsh and heavy to me.                    [Music ceases]
They are set here for examples.
They are too thin and bare to hide offences.
They are, as all my other comforts, far hence,
They grow still too; from all parts they are coming,
They had parted so much honesty among 'em-
They have done my poor house grace; for which I pay 'em
They have sent me such a man I would have wish'd for.
They love and dote on; call him bounteous Buckingham,
They may, cum privilegio, wear away
They never then had sprung like summer flies;
They promis'd me eternal happiness,
They prosper best of all when I am thence.
They quite forget their loss of liberty.
They say in great extremity, and fear'd
They set the same; and there it doth remain,
They shall abound as formerly.
They shall have wars and pay for their presumption.
They shall no more prevail than we give way to.
They shoot but calm words folded up in smoke,
They should be good men, their affairs as righteous;
They should find easy penance.
They swell and grow as terrible as storms.
They that must weigh out my afflictions,
They that my trust must grow to, live not here;
They that stabb'd Caesar shed no blood at all,
They took his head, and on the gates of York
They turn to vicious forms, ten times more ugly
They vex me past my patience. Pray you pass on.
They'll say 'tis nought; others to hear the city
Things done without example, in their issue
Things that are known alike, which are not wholesome
Things to strike honour sad. Bid him recount
This Ipswich fellow's insolence; or proclaim
This arm upholds the house of Lancaster.
This bold bad man.
This calf, bred from his cow, from all the world;
This candle burns not clear. 'Tis I must snuff it;
This compell'd fortune!-have your mouth fill'd up
This dangerous conception in this point:
This day was view'd in open as his queen,
This deadly quarrel daily doth beget!
This dilatory sloth and tricks of Rome.
This expedition's charge.
This from a dying man receive as certain:
This good man-few of you deserve that title-
This hand should chop it off, and with the issuing blood
This hand, fast wound about thy coal-black hair,
This happy child did I get anything.
This honest man, wait like a lousy footboy
This is against our pleasure.
This is it that makes me bridle passion
This is of purpose laid by some that hate me-
This is the Cardinal's doing; the King-Cardinal,
This is the cause that I, poor Margaret,
This is the hand that stabbed thy father York;
This is the quondam King; let's seize upon him.
This is the state of man: to-day he puts forth
This just and learned priest, Cardinal Campeius,
This lady's husband, Sir Richard Grey, was slain,
This little abstract doth contain that large
This little one shall make it holiday.                     Exeunt
This man whom hand to hand I slew in fight
This many summers in a sea of glory;
This may plant courage in their quailing breasts,
This might have been prevented and made whole
This morning come before us; where I know
This night he makes a supper, and a great one,
This night to be comptrollers.
This night to meet here, they could do no less,
This oracle of comfort has so pleas'd me
This paper has undone me. 'Tis th' account
This pausingly ensu'd: "Neither the King nor's heirs,
This pretty lad will prove our country's bliss.
This proveth Edward's love and Warwick's honesty.
This royal infant-heaven still move about her!-
This shoulder was ordain'd so thick to heave;
This speak I, lords, to let you understand,
This talking lord can lay upon my credit,
This to my lord the King.
This toil of ours should be a work of thine;
This tractable obedience is a slave
This was a judgment on me, that my kingdom,
This was his gentleman in trust-of him
This world had air'd them. Hence I took a thought
This, general joy.
Thither he darts it. Bosom up my counsel
Those suns of glory, those two lights of men,
Those twins of learning that he rais'd in you,
Those we profess, peace-makers, friends, and servants.
Those will I muster up, and thou, son Clarence,
Thou and Oxford, with five thousand men,
Thou art a cure fit for a King.  [To CAMPEIUS]  You're
Thou art a widow, and thou hast some children;
Thou art not here. Murder is thy alms-deed;
Thou art the issue of my dear offence,
Thou call'dst me King?
Thou cam'st-
Thou draw not on thy danger and dishonour;
Thou fall'st a blessed martyr!
Thou hadst not liv'd to kill a son of mine.
Thou hast a cruel nature and a bloody.
Thou hast made me now a man; never before
Thou hast the sweetest face I ever look'd on.
Thou lov'st me not; for, brother, if thou didst,
Thou scarlet sin, robb'd this bewailing land
Thou seest what's past; go fear thy king withal.
Thou setter-up and plucker-down of kings,
Thou smiling while he knit his angry brows.
Thou, being a king, bless'd with a goodly son,
Thou, brother Montague, in Buckingham,
Though all the world should crack their duty to you,
Though all these English and their discipline
Though fortune's malice overthrow my state,
Though from an humble stock, undoubtedly
Though he be grown so desperate to be honest-
Though in her cradle, yet now promises
Though they be never so ridiculous,
Three Dukes of Somerset, threefold renown'd
Throw up thine eye! See, see what show'rs arise,
Thus have we swept suspicion from our seat
Thus leaning on mine elbow I begin
Thus stands the case: you know our King, my brother,
Thus yields the cedar to the axe's edge,
Thy God's, and truth's; then, if thou fall'st, O Cromwell,
Thy balm wash'd off wherewith thou wast anointed.
Thy brother Edward; and thyself, the sea
Thy brother being carelessly encamp'd,
Thy brother's blood the thirsty earth hath drunk,
Thy burning car never had scorch'd the earth!
Thy father, Minos, that denied our course;
Thy hopeful service perish too. Good Cromwell,
Thy meekness saint-like, wife-like government,
Thy mother felt more than a mother's pain,
Thy nephew and right royal sovereign.
Thy place is fill'd, thy sceptre wrung from thee,
Thy sins are visited in this poor child;
Thy sly conveyance and thy lord's false love;
Thy tears would wash this cold congealed blood
Thy truth and thy integrity is rooted
Thy very beams will dry those vapours up,
Tidings, as swiftly as the posts could run,
Tied all the kingdom. Simony was fair play;
Tied it by letters-patents. Now, who'll take it?
Till Angiers and the right thou hast in France,
Till Cranmer, Cromwell, her two hands, and she,
Till Warwick or himself be quite suppress'd.
Till death, that winter, kill it.
Till either death hath clos'd these eyes of mine
Till now I never knew thee!                        [Music. Dance]
Till she had kindled France and all the world
Till storms be past of civil enmity.
Till their soul-fearing clamours have brawl'd down
Till then 'tis wisdom to conceal our meaning.
Till they obey the manage. If we suffer,
Till this time pomp was single, but now married
Till we meet Warwick with his foreign pow'r.          Exeunt
Till you hear further from his Highness.
Till your strong hand shall help to give him strength
Till youth take leave and leave you to the crutch.
To Asher House, my Lord of Winchester's,
To England's King in lawful marriage.
To Germany, there with the Emperor
To Gregory de Cassado, to conclude,
To Henry's body, and supply his place;
To Ireland, Poictiers, Anjou, Touraine, Maine,
To Pepin or Clotharius, they keep state so.
To York Place, where the feast is held.
To a most noble judge, the King my master.
To a prepar'd place in the choir, fell of
To all the plains about him; our children's children
To be High Steward; next, the Duke of Norfolk,
To be corrupt and treasonous.
To be her mistress' mistress! The Queen's queen!
To be no better than a homely swain;
To be reveng'd on him.
To be the father unto many sons.
To be thus jaded by a piece of scarlet,
To be thy lord and master. Seek the King;
To be your servant.
To bear his image and renew his glories!
To bear that load of title?
To bend the fatal instruments of war
To bless your eye withal.
To blot out me and put his own son in.
To bring my whole cause 'fore his Holiness
To carry into Flanders the great seal.
To carve out dials quaintly, point by point,
To come abroad?
To come near. [Exit GENTLEMAN] What can be their business
To cope malicious censurers, which ever
To cross me from the golden time I look for!
To cull the plots of best advantages.
To dance attendance on their lordships' pleasures,
To dash our late decree in parliament
To dispossess that child which is not his?
To disproportion me in every part,
To do him justice and revenge on you.
To do in these fierce vanities? I wonder
To do me this last right.
To do offence and scathe in Christendom.             [Drum beats]
To draw my answer from thy articles?
To drink to these fair ladies, and a measure
To each incensed will. I would your Highness
To effect this marriage, so it please my lord.
To eminent assistants, but spider-like,
To endure more miseries and greater far
To enforce these rights so forcibly withheld.
To enter conquerors, and to proclaim
To execute the like upon thyself;
To fair content and you. None here, he hopes,
To flatter Henry and forsake thy brother!
To foreign princes, 'Ego et Rex meus'
To forfeit all your goods, lands, tenements,
To fortune's yoke, but let thy dauntless mind
To free King Henry from imprisonment,
To frustrate both his oath and what beside
To furnish Rome and to prepare the ways
To gain the love o' th' commonalty; the Duke
To give her the avaunt, it is a pity
To give the heir and daughter of Lord Scales
To give up willingly that noble title
To go along with us; for as we think,
To go with us unto the officers.
To greet mine own land with my wishful sight.
To haste thus fast, to find us unprovided.
To have brought, viva voce, to his face;
To have the heir of the Lord Hungerford.
To have this young one made a Christian.
To have you therein my companion.
To hear and see her plaints, her brinish tears.
To hear from Rome. The Marchioness of Pembroke!
To hear from him a matter of some moment;
To hear me speak his good now?
To hear such flattery now, and in my presence
To hear this of him, and could wish he were
To him forthwith in holy wedlock bands.
To him that does best. God forbid else. Cardinal,
To him that made him proud-the Pope.
To him that owes it, namely, this young prince;
To him will we prove loyal. Till that time
To his own portion! And what expense by th' hour
To hold thine own and leave thine own with him.
To keep mine honour from corruption,
To keep that oath were more impiety
To keep them back that come to succour you.
To keep your earthly audit; sure, in that
To kings that fear their subjects' treachery?
To know your royal pleasure.
To land his legions all as soon as I;
To lead 'em once again; and then let's dream
To leave a thousand-fold more bitter than
To let my tongue excuse all. What was purpos'd
To let the troops pass fairly, or I'll find
To let thy tongue detect thy base-born heart?
To lighten all this isle?-I'll to the King
To link with him that were not lawful chosen.
To load a falling man.
To look into the blots and stains of right.
To love her for her mother's sake, that lov'd him,
To make a bloody supper in the Tower.
To make a faithless error in your cars;
To make a hazard of new fortunes here.
To make a more requital to your love!
To make a seemly answer to such persons.
To make a shaking fever in your walls,
To make an envious mountain on my back,
To make great haste. All fast? What means this? Ho!
To make prescription for a kingdom's worth.
To make room for him in my husband's bed.
To make that only true we now intend,
To make the sceptre his. These very words
To make this present summons. Unsolicited
To make this shameless callet know herself.
To make your house our Tow'r. You a brother of us,
To many lords and ladies; there will be
To me above this wretchedness? All your studies
To me should utter, with demure confidence
To me you cannot reach you play the spaniel,
To me, your friend, than any.
To meet the least occasion that may give me
To meet with joy in sweet Jerusalem.
To men that understand you, words and weakness.
To mow 'em down before me; but if I spar'd any
To nature none more bound; his training such
To one above itself. Each following day
To one man's honour, this contagious sickness,
To one or two of these!
To parley or to fight, therefore prepare.
To pay that duty which you truly owe
To plague thee for thy foul misleading me.
To play the broker in mine own behalf;
To plead mine innocence; for that dye is on me
To plead your cause. It shall be therefore bootless
To pray for her? What, is she crying out?
To prove him tyrant this reason may suffice,
To quench mine honour; they would shame to make me
To question of his apprehension.
To raise my state to title of a queen,
To rank our chosen truth with such a show
To render up the great seal presently
To rest awhile, some half an hour or so,
To rest mistrustful where a noble heart
To revel it with him and his new bride.
To revel it with him and his new bride.'
To ruminate on this so far, until
To save at least the heir of Edward's right.
To save unscratch'd your city's threat'ned cheeks-
To scatter 'em as 'tis to make 'em sleep
To search the secret treasons of the world;
To second all his plot. I do assure you
To see these honours in possession.                   Exeunt
To see this sight, it irks my very soul.
To see what this child does, and praise my Maker.
To see you ta'en from liberty, to look on
To set him free from his captivity.
To set the crown once more on Henry's head.
To shape my legs of an unequal size;
To sheath his knife in us. He is attach'd;
To shepherds looking on their silly sheep,
To shrink mine arm up like a wither'd shrub
To signify thou cam'st to bite the world;
To silence envious tongues. Be just, and fear not;
To sin's rebuke and my Creator's praise.
To sit here at this present, and behold
To sit upon a hill, as I do now,
To some ears unrecounted. But, my lords,
To some man else, as this dead man doth me.
To speak my mind of him; and indeed this day,
To spread his colours, boy, in thy behalf;
To stay the judgment o' th' divorce; for if
To steal from spiritual leisure a brief span
To stop the rumour and allay those tongues
To strengthen and support King Edward's place.
To sunder them that yoke so well together.
To swear against you? Such things have been done.
To taint that honour every good tongue blesses,
To take their rooms ere I can place myself.
To tell the passion of my sovereign's heart;
To tell your Grace, that, having heard by fame
To th' good of your most sacred person and
To th' ground, and all the world shall mourn her.
To th' old dam treason: Charles the Emperor,
To the King's danger. Presently the Duke
To the disposing of it nought rebell'd;
To the good Queen, possess'd him with a scruple
To the last penny; 'tis the King's. My robe,
To the sharp'st kind of justice. Please you, sir,
To these ill-tuned repetitions.
To think an English courtier may be wise,
To think upon the part of business which
To think what follows.
To this fair island and the territories,
To this last costly treaty, th' interview
To those which would not know them, and yet must
To treat of high affairs touching that time.
To trust us in your business, we are ready
To use our utmost studies in your service.
To use so rude behaviour. Go to, kneel.
To waste these times. Good hour of night, Sir Thomas!
To wear our moral state to come with her,
To weep is to make less the depth of grief.
To whisper Wolsey-here makes visitation-
To whom God will, there be the victory!
To whom am I beholding for these limbs?
To whom as great a charge as little honour
To whom do lions cast their gentle looks?
To whom he gave these words: 'O father Abbot,
To whom in favour she shall give the day,
To whom the heav'ns in thy nativity
To wife for Edward. If this news be true,
To wit, an indigest deformed lump,
To you I speak.
To you that chok'd it. Let be call'd before us
To-morrow morning to the Council board
Together sung 'Te Deum.' So she parted,
Together with all famous colleges
Together with that pale, that white-fac'd shore,
Together; to consider further, that
Tongues spit their duties out, and cold hearts freeze
Too hard an exclamation.
Too heavy for a man that hopes for heaven!
Torment myself to catch the English crown;
Touch me alike; th' are breath I not believe in.
Touching King Henry's oath and your succession.
Touching the jointure that your king must make,
Toward the King first, then his laws, in filling
Toward the King, my ever royal master,
Toward this remedy, whereupon we are
Trace the conjunction!
Traduc'd by ignorant tongues, which neither know
Tread on the sand; why, there you quickly sink.
Trimm'd like a younker prancing to his love!
Turn face to face and bloody point to point;
Turn me away and let the foul'st contempt
Turn thou the mouth of thy artillery,
Turns what he list. The King will know him one day.
Tut, were it farther off, I'll pluck it down.           Exit
Twice fifteen thousand hearts of England's breed-
Two Cliffords, as the father and the son;
Two noble partners with you: the old Duchess of Norfolk
Two women plac'd together makes cold weather.
Under device and practice.
Under his own vine what he plants, and sing
Under pretence to see the Queen his aunt-
Under the colour of his usual game,
Under their blessed wings!
Under whose shade the ramping lion slept,
Under whose warrant I impeach thy wrong,
Under your hands and seals; therefore, go on,
Under your promis'd pardon. The subjects' grief
Unfit for other life, compell'd by hunger
Unless abroad they purchase great alliance?
Unless my hand and strength could equal them.
Unless the Lady Bona quit his pain.
Unless they seek for hatred at my hands;
Unless thou let his silver water keep
Unless thou rescue him from foul despair?
Unless we sweep 'em from the door with cannons,
Unreasonable creatures feed their young;
Unsheathe your sword and dub him presently.
Unsheathe your sword, good father; cry 'Saint George!'
Until my misshap'd trunk that bear this head
Unto my brother, Archbishop of York.
Unto our sister Bona.
Unto the brother of your loving bride.
Unwilling to outlive the good that did it;
Upon Good Friday, and ne'er broke his fast.
Upon his death-bed he by will bequeath'd
Upon my smiles. Go get thee from me, Cromwell;
Upon my soul, two reverend cardinal virtues;
Upon my target three fair shining suns.
Upon my wretched women that so long
Upon our fail? To this point hast thou heard him
Upon that Clifford, that cruel child-killer.
Upon the dancing banners of the French,
Upon the daring huntsman that has gall'd him-
Upon the maiden virtue of the crown.
Upon the right and party of her son?
Upon this French going out, took he upon him-
Upon this business my appearance make
Upon this land a thousand blessings,
Upon this naughty earth? Go to, go to;
Upon thy wounds, that kills mine eye and heart!
Upon what cause, wrong you? Alas, our places,
Upward of twenty years, and have been blest
Urg'd on the examinations, proofs, confessions,
Use us and it.  [To WOLSEY]  My good lord, have great care
Usurps the regal title and the seat
Vain pomp and glory of this world, I hate ye;
Vouchsafe at our request to stand aside
Vouchsafe to speak my thanks and my obedience,
W'have frighted with our trumpets; so, 'tis clear,
Wade to the market-place in Frenchmen's blood,
Wailing our losses, whiles the foe doth rage,
Wait else at door, a fellow councillor,
Wait in the presence.
Warwick may lose that now hath won the day.
Warwick, although my head still wear the crown,
Was a deep envious one.
Was cried incomparable; and th' ensuing night
Was dead?
Was done to death; and more than so, my father,
Was either pitied in him or forgotten.
Was ever to do well. Nor is there living-
Was fashion'd to much honour from his cradle.
Was in his countenance. You he bade
Was it discretion, lords, to let this man,
Was still inscrib'd; in which you brought the King
Was to them as a painting. Now this masque
Was, were he evil us'd, he would outgo
We are a queen, or long have dream'd so, certain
We are but men; and what so many may do,
We are to cure such sorrows, not to sow 'em.
We are too open here to argue this;
We cannot feel too little, hear too much.
We coldly pause for thee. Chatillon, speak.
We come not by the way of accusation
We for the worthiest hold the right from both.
We have seen him set himself.
We hold our town for neither, yet for both.
We know his handiwork. Therefore, good mother,
We live not to be grip'd by meaner persons.
We may as well push against Paul's as stir 'em.
We may surprise and take him at our pleasure?
We might recover all our loss again.
We must awake endeavour for defence,
We must not rend our subjects from our laws,
We now present. Those that can pity here
We see each grain of gravel-I do know
We set the axe to thy usurping root;
We shall be late else; which I would not be,
We shall hear more anon.                                   Exeunt
We should take root here where we sit, or sit
We will be short with you. 'Tis his Highness' pleasure
We will bear home that lusty blood again
We will not from the helm to sit and weep,
We write in water. May it please your Highness
We'll forward towards Warwick and his mates;
We'll lay before this town our royal bones,
We'll never leave till we have hewn thee down,
We'll put thee down, 'gainst whom these arms we bear,
We'll quietly rouse the traitors in the same.
We'll yoke together, like a double shadow
We, having now the best at Barnet field,
Weary and old with service, to the mercy
Weep, wretched man; I'll aid thee tear for tear;
Weigh'd not a hair of his. Plague of your policy!
Welcome before the gates of Angiers, Duke.
Well have we pass'd and now repass'd the seas,
Well worthy the best heir o' th' world, should not
Well, I will arm me, being thus forewarn'd.
Well, now can I make any Joan a lady.
Well, say there is no kingdom then for Richard;
Well, sir, what follows?
Went all afoot in summer's scalding heat,
Were brought me of your loss and his depart.
Were but a feigned friend to our proceedings.
Were harbour'd in their rude circumference.
Were he as famous and as bold in war
Were hid against me, now to forgive me frankly.
Were it not pity that this goodly boy
Were lik'ned oft to kingly sepulchres;
Were play'd in jest by counterfeiting actors?
Were those that went on each side of the Queen?
Were tried by ev'ry tongue, ev'ry eye saw 'em,
Wert thou environ'd with a brazen wall.
What 'tis you go about. To climb steep hills
What Clarence but a quicksand of deceit?
What England says, say briefly, gentle lord;
What and how true thou art. He will advance thee;
What answer makes King Lewis unto our letters?
What appetite you have.
What are your pleasures with me, reverend lords?
What brings you here to court so hastily?
What can be said against me.
What counsel give you? Whither shall we fly?
What danger or what sorrow can befall thee,
What doth move you to claim your brother's land?
What he deserves of you and me I know;
What heaven hath given him-let some graver eye
What here y' have heard to her.
What his high hatred would effect wants not
What is her name?
What is the body when the head is off?
What is unsettled in the King.
What is your pleasure with me?
What kind of my obedience I should tender;
What late misfortune is befall'n King Edward?
What love, thinkst thou, I sue so much to get?
What manner of man are you? My lord, I look'd
What may befall him to his harm and ours.
What may it be? You do not doubt my faith, sir?
What means this scorn, thou most untoward knave?
What men are you?
What more?
What news abroad?
What news, Sir Thomas Lovell?
What other pleasure can the world afford?
What pledge have we of thy firm loyalty?
What scene of death hath Roscius now to act?
What stratagems, how fell, how butcherly,
What sudden anger's this? How have I reap'd it?
What then remains, we being thus arriv'd
What think you of a duchess? Have you limbs
What though the mast be now blown overboard,
What time the shepherd, blowing of his nails,
What valiant foemen, like to autumn's corn,
What was the speech among the Londoners
What we can do to him-though now the time
What will become of me now, wretched lady?
What woman-post is this? Hath she no husband
What you commanded me, but by her woman
What!                                     Exeunt LOVELL and DENNY
What! I am dubb'd; I have it on my shoulder.
What! fear not, man, but yield me up the keys;
What! wilt thou not? Where is that devil's butcher,
What's worse than murderer, that I may name it?
What, can so young a man begin to prick?
What, wilt thou not? Then, Clarence, do it thou.
Whate'er it bodes, henceforward will I bear
When Clifford cannot spare his friends an oath.
When I came hither I was Lord High Constable
When I first mov'd you.
When I have fought with Pembroke and his fellows,
When I have heard your king's desert recounted,
When I shall dwell with worms, and my poor name
When I was got, I'll send his soul to hell.
When I was got, Sir Robert was away!
When as the noble Duke of York was slain,
When by the Archbishop of Canterbury
When care, mistrust, and treason waits on him.
When dying clouds contend with growing light,
When he has run his course and sleeps in blessings,
When heaven shall call her from this cloud of darkness-
When living blood doth in these temples beat
When nature brought him to the door of death?
When returns Cranmer?
When she has so much English.
When the King knows my truth.
When the rich blood of kings is set on fire!
When these so noble benefits shall prove
When they pass back from the christening.
When they were ready to set out for London, a man of
When this is known, then to divide the times-
When this same lusty gentleman was got.
When we first put this dangerous stone a-rolling,
When you and I met at Saint Albans last
When you are call'd, return. Now the Lord help!
When you disgrac'd me in my embassade,
Where I must take like seat unto my fortune,
Where fame, late ent'ring at his heedful ears,
Where having nothing, nothing can he lose.
Where how he did prevail I shame to speak-
Where is the post that came from Montague?
Where kings command. I was, I must confess,
Where my poor young was lim'd, was caught, and kill'd.
Where others tell steps with me.
Where our right valiant father is become.
Where peremptory Warwick now remains.
Where pow'rs are your retainers, and your words,
Where she remains now sick.
Where should he find it fairer than in Blanch?
Where should he find it purer than in Blanch?
Where sits deformity to mock my body;
Where slept our scouts or how are they seduc'd
Where this is question'd send our letters with
Where you are liberal of your loves and counsels,
Where your brave father breath'd his latest gasp,
Where'er it be, in heaven or in earth.
Where's his examination?
Where's your commission, lords? Words cannot carry
Where, being but a private man again,
Wherefore I sent for you.
Wherein he might the King his lord advertise
Wherein thy counsel and consent is wanting.
Wherein? and what taxation? My Lord Cardinal,
Whereof my sovereign would have note, they are
Whereof the root was fix'd in virtue's ground,
Wherever the bright sun of heaven shall shine,
Whether our daughter were legitimate,
Which God's dew quench! Therefore I say again,
Which He hath giv'n for fence impregnable,
Which I do well, for I am sure the Emperor
Which action's self was tongue to. All was royal:
Which are so weak of courage and in judgment
Which argued thee a most unloving father.
Which being shallow, you shall give me leave
Which did subdue the greatest part of Spain;
Which died in Geffrey, and the hand of time
Which ever has and ever shall be growing,
Which fault lies on the hazards of all husbands
Which had they, what four thron'd ones could have weigh'd
Which heaven shall take in nature of a fee;
Which held thee dearly as his soul's redemption
Which here we came to spout against your town,
Which if they do, yet will I keep thee safe,
Which in the time of death he gave our father.
Which industry and courage might have sav'd?
Which makes my whit'st part black. The will of heav'n
Which none but heaven and you and I shall hear.
Which now mistrust no parcel of my fear,
Which now the manage of two kingdoms must
Which owe the crown that thou o'er-masterest?
Which sometime they have us'd with fearful flight-
Which sounded like a clamour in a vault,
Which sways usurpingly these several titles,
Which time shall bring to ripeness. She shall be-
Which trust accordingly, kind citizens,
Which was a sin-yet in bestowing, madam,
Which was so strongly urg'd past my defence.
Which we have not done neither; that, I fear,
Which we in justice cannot well deny,
Which will require your answer, you must take
Which with her dowry shall be counterpois'd.
Which ye shall never have while I live.
Which you are running here.
Which your disease requires.
Which, as I take it, is a kind of puppy
Which, being suffer'd, rivers cannot quench.
Which, by the heavens' assistance and your strength,
Which, since they are of you, and odious,
Which, though I will not practise to deceive,
Which, to say sooth, are blessings; and which gifts,
Which, traitor, thou wouldst have me answer to.
Which, whiles it lasted, gave King Henry light.
While I myself will lead a private life
While I shall have my life. Come, reverend fathers,
While I use further conference with Warwick.
While he enjoys the honour and his ease.
While he himself keeps in the cold field?
While proud ambitious Edward Duke of York
While we bethink a means to break it off.
Whiles Warwick tells his title, smooths the wrong,
Whiles lions war and battle for their dens,
Whiles we, God's wrathful agent, do correct
Whiles, in his moan, the ship splits on the rock,
Whilst I propose the self-same words to the
Whilst your great goodness, out of holy pity,
Whither so late?
Whither the Queen intends. Forward; away!             Exeunt
Whither were you a-going?
Who am I, ha?
Who are at hand, triumphantly displayed,
Who by his prowess conquered all France.
Who by the hand of France this day hath made
Who can be angry now? What envy reach you?
Who cannot err, he did it. Now this follows,
Who crown'd the gracious Duke in high despite,
Who dares not stir by day must walk by night;
Who deem'd our marriage lawful. Wherefore I humbly
Who first rais'd head against usurping Richard,
Who from the sacred ashes of her honour
Who gave his blood to lime the stones together,
Who grieves much for your weakness, and by me
Who had been hither sent on the debating
Who hath not seen them- even with those wings
Who having pinch'd a few and made them cry,
Who holds his state at door, 'mongst pursuivants,
Who lives and dares but say thou didst not well
Who look'd full gently on his warlike queen,
Who not contented that he lopp'd the branch
Who painfully with much expedient march
Who says it was, he lies; I say 'twas not.                 Exeunt
Who scapes the lurking serpent's mortal sting?
Who should attend on him? He makes up the file
Who should succeed the father but the son?
Who thunders to his captives blood and death,
Who undertakes you to your end.
Who waits there? Sure you know me?
Who was enroll'd 'mongst wonders, and when we,
Who's best in favour. Let the music knock it.
Who's that that bears the sceptre?
Who's there? My good Lord Cardinal? O my Wolsey,
Who's this? O God! It is my father's face,
Who, as you say, took pains to get this son,
Whom God hath join'd together; ay, and 'twere pity
Whom I most hated living, thou hast made me,
Whom after under the confession's seal
Whom from the flow of gan I name not, but
Whom in this conflict I unwares have kill'd.
Whom once more I present unto your Highness.
Whom the King hath in secrecy long married,
Whom thou obeyed'st thirty and six years,
Whom, if he live, will scarce be gentlemen-
Whose arms gave shelter to the princely eagle,
Whose envious gulf did swallow up his life.
Whose father bears the title of a king-
Whose father for his hoarding went to hell?
Whose fault is this?
Whose figure even this instant cloud puts on
Whose foot spurns back the ocean's roaring tides
Whose hand is that the forest bear doth lick?
Whose health and royalty I pray for.
Whose honour Heaven shield from soil!-even he escapes not
Whose leisure I have stay'd, have given him time
Whose minister you are, whiles here He liv'd
Whose passage, vex'd with thy impediment,
Whose sons lie scattered on the bleeding ground;
Whose title they admit, Arthur's or John's.
Whose top-branch overpeer'd Jove's spreading tree
Whose valour plucks dead lions by the beard;
Whose veins bound richer blood than Lady Blanch?
Whose wisdom was a mirror to the wisest;
Why are we met in council?
Why ask I that? My mangled body shows,
Why shall we fight, if you pretend no title?
Why stand these royal fronts amazed thus?
Why stand we like soft-hearted women here,
Why then I suck my teeth and catechize
Why then defy each other, and pell-mell
Why then, let's on our way in silent sort.
Why they are so, but, like to village curs,
Why, I can smile, and murder whiles I smile,
Why, Via! to London will we march amain,
Why, courage then! What cannot be avoided
Why, how now, Cromwell!
Why, is not Oxford here another anchor?
Why, love forswore me in my mother's womb;
Why, then I do but dream on sovereignty;
Why, then thou are an executioner.
Why, what a shame was this! Did my commission
Widow, go you along. Lords, use her honourably.
Will I not think of home, but follow arms.
Will apprehend you as his enemy.
Will be deceiv'd; for, gentle hearers, know,
Will bless the King-and is not this course pious?
Will bring me off again. What's this? 'To th' Pope.'
Will but amount to five and twenty thousand,
Will fall some blessing to this land, which shall
Will have his will, and she must fall.
Will have of these trim vanities!
Will issue out again and bid us battle;
Will leave us never an understanding friend.
Will make my boldness manners. Now, good angels
Will make this sting the sooner. Cardinal Campeius
Will not be friendly to.
Will render you no remedy, this ring
Will scare the herd, and so my shoot is lost.
Will thither straight, for willingness rids way;
Will triumph o'er my person; which I weigh not,
Willing to leave their burden. Reach a chair.
Wilt thou resign them and lay down thy arms?
Win straying souls with modesty again,
Win you this city without stroke or wound;
Wish him ten fathom deep: this Duke as much
Wishing his foot were equal with his eye;
With Clifford and the haught Northumberland,
With aid of soldiers to this needful war.
With all his covent, honourably receiv'd him;
With all my heart I thank thee for my father!
With all the choicest music of the kingdom,
With all the friends that thou, brave Earl of March,
With all the virtues that attend the good,
With all their honourable points of ignorance
With burden of our armour here we sweat.
With comforting repose, and not for us
With course disturb'd even thy confining shores,
With fearful bloody issue arbitrate.
With fiery eyes sparkling for very wrath,
With gentle travail, to the gladding of
With half that face would he have all my land:
With hasty Germans and blunt Hollanders,
With her the Lady Blanch of Spain;
With him along is come the mother-queen,
With ladies' faces and fierce dragons' spleens-
With less allegiance in it! Men that make
With maiden flowers, that all the world may know
With many children by you. If, in the course
With me since first you knew me. But, I pray you,
With me, a poor weak woman, fall'n from favour?
With meekness and humility; but your heart
With my well saying!
With nuptial knot, if thou vouchsafe to grant
With pay and thanks; and let's away to London
With promise of high pay and great rewards,
With promise of his sister, and what else,
With resolution whereso'er I meet thee-
With slaughter coupled to the name of kings.
With sleight and manhood stole to Rhesus' tents,
With some few bands of chosen soldiers,
With stately triumphs, mirthful comic shows,
With such an agony he sweat extremely,
With tearful eyes add water to the sea
With the Duke of Suffolk.
With the mere rankness of their joy.
With thee and all thy best parts bound together,
With them a bastard of the king's deceas'd;
With them the two brave bears, Warwick and Montague,
With these weak women's fears. A noble spirit,
With these you bear already.
With this abundance of superfluous breath?
With this kiss take my blessing: God protect thee!
With this my son, Prince Edward, Henry's heir,
With thy religious truth and modesty,
With trembling wings misdoubteth every bush;
With unhack'd swords and helmets all unbruis'd,
With very easy arguments of love,
With what a sorrow Cromwell leaves his lord.
With which the time will load him. Th' Archbishop
With whom an upright zeal to right prevails
With words of sovereignty.
With you, my Lord of Lincoln; you remember
Wither one rose, and let the other flourish!
Withhold revenge, dear God; 'tis not my fault,
Within these forty hours Surrey durst better
Without delay; and the pretence for this
Without indurance further.
Without the King's will or the state's allowance,
Without the privity o' th' King-t' appoint
Witness how dear I hold this confirmation.
Witness the loving kiss I give the fruit.
Work thou the way- and that shall execute.
Worse than the sacring bell, when the brown wench
Would I had known no more! But she must die-
Would I might never stir from off this place,
Would I were dead, if God's good will were so!
Would I were fairly out on't!
Would bring white hairs unto a quiet grave.
Would by a good discourser lose some life
Would come against you.
Would for Carnarvonshire, although there long'd
Would give it quick consideration, for
Would have flung from him; but indeed he could not;
Would he were wasted, marrow, bones, and all,
Would it not grieve an able man to leave
Would leave your griefs, and take my counsel.
Would more have strength'ned this our commonwealth
Would move a monster.
Would try him to the utmost, had ye mean;
Would you expect? You are strangely troublesome.
Write in the dust this sentence with thy blood:
Ye appear in every thing may bring my ruin!
Ye blew the fire that burns ye. Now have at ye!
Ye have angels' faces, but heaven knows your hearts.
Ye must all see the Queen, and she must thank ye,
Ye see, I drink the water of my eye.
Ye should do service. Hark! the trumpets sound;
Ye speak like honest men-pray God ye prove so!
Yea, subject to your countenance-glad or sorry
Yea, the elect o' th' land, who are assembled
Yea, the whole Consistory of Rome. You charge me
Yea, with a splitting power, and made to tremble
Yes, heartily beseech you.
Yet Edward at the least is Duke of York.
Yet I am richer than my base accusers
Yet am I arm'd against the worst can happen;
Yet are the King's, and, till my soul forsake,
Yet fil'd with my abilities; mine own ends
Yet freshly pitied in our memories.
Yet hasty marriage seldom proveth well.
Yet heav'ns are just, and time suppresseth wrongs.
Yet here Prince Edward stands, King Henry's son.
Yet in this one thing let me blame your Grace,
Yet know thou, since we have begun to strike,
Yet let 'em look they glory not in mischief
Yet lives our pilot still. Is't meet that he
Yet look to have them buzz to offend thine ears.
Yet neither conqueror nor conquered.
Yet sell your face for fivepence and 'tis dear.
Yet shall you have all kindness at my hand
Yet that Thy brazen gates of heaven may ope
Yet thus far fortune maketh us amends,
Yet thus far we are one in fortunes: both
Yet thus far, Griffith, give me leave to speak him,
Yet will I add an honour-a great patience.
Yet, Warwick, in despite of all mischance,
Yet, as we may, we'll meet both thee and Warwick.
Yet, ere thou go, but answer me one doubt:
Yet, gracious madam, bear it as you may:
Yet, if that quarrel, fortune, do divorce
Yet, in protection of their tender ones,
Yet, to avoid deceit, I mean to learn;
Yonder's the head of that arch-enemy
York and young Rutland could not satisfy.
You are a churchman, or, I'll tell you, Cardinal,
You are always my good friend; if your will pass,
You are full of heavenly stuff, and bear the inventory
You are mine enemy, and make my challenge
You are potently oppos'd, and with a malice
You are so merciful. I see your end-
You are so noble. To your Highness' hand
You are the King's now.
You are the fount that makes small brooks to flow.
You are the hare of whom the proverb goes,
You are the king King Edward hath depos'd;
You ask with such a violence, the King-
You be convey'd to th' Tower a prisoner;
You came not of one mother then, it seems.
You cannot with such freedom purge yourself
You charge not in your spleen a noble person
You do appear before them; if they shall chance,
You equal potents, fiery kindled spirits!
You fight in justice. Then, in God's name, lords,
You have Christian warrant for 'em, and no doubt
You have a father able to maintain you,
You have as little honesty as honour,
You have for dignities, to the mere undoing
You have no children, butchers, if you had,
You have now a broken banquet, but we'll mend it.
You have too much, good lady; but to know
You have, by fortune and his Highness' favours,
You hold a fair assembly; you do well, lord.
You know I am a woman, lacking wit
You know no more than others! But you frame
You left poor Henry at the Bishop's palace,
You love the breeder better than the male.
You maim'd the jurisdiction of all bishops.
You may then spare that time.
You men of Angiers, and my loving subjects-
You met him half in heaven. My vows and prayers
You must be godfather, and answer for her.
You must no more call it York Place: that's past:
You must not leave me yet. I must to bed;
You promis'd knighthood to our forward son:
You see the poor remainder-could distribute,
You sent me deputy for Ireland;
You shall have aid.
You shall know many dare accuse you boldly,
You shall not be my judge; for it is you
You shall to th' Tower.
You shall, sir. Did you not of late days hear
You should be Lord Ambassador from the Emperor,
You sign your place and calling, in full seeming,
You speak not like yourself, who ever yet
You take a precipice for no leap of danger,
You tender more your person's honour than
You that are King, though he do wear the crown,
You that are blam'd for it alike with us,
You that have so fair parts of woman on you
You that love me and Warwick, follow me.
You that thus far have come to pity me,
You that will follow me to this attempt,
You told not how Henry the Sixth hath lost
You turn the good we offer into envy.
You were now running o'er. You have scarce time
You were the Duke's surveyor, and lost your office
You would have given me your petition that
You writ to th' Pope against the King; your goodness,
You wrought to be a legate; by which power
You'd feel more comfort. Why should we, good lady,
You'd venture an emballing. I myself
You'll find a most unfit time to disturb him.
You'll find it wholesome. Lo, where comes that rock
You'll part away disgrac'd.
You'll show a little honesty.
You, gracious madam, to unthink your speaking
Young Ned, for thee thine uncles and myself
Your Grace is grown so pleasant.
Your Highness aims at, if I aim aright.
Your Highness with an heir!
Your King and Warwick's and must have my will.
Your brain, and every function of your power,
Your brother Richard mark'd him for the grave;
Your brother did employ my father much-
Your colt's tooth is not cast yet.
Your crown content and you must be contented
Your enemies are many, and not small; their practices
Your face hath got five hundred pound a year,
Your faithful friends o' th' suburbs? We shall have
Your father's head, which Clifford placed there;
Your father's heir must have your father's land.
Your father's wife did after wedlock bear him,
Your high profession spiritual; that again
Your holy hat to be stamp'd on the King's coin.
Your hopes and friends are infinite.
Your horse stands ready at the park corner.
Your legs did better service than your hands.
Your long coat, priest, protects you; thou shouldst feel
Your lordship is a guest too.
Your lordship shall along. Come, good Sir Thomas,
Your master wed me to: nothing but death
Your patience to you and be well contented
Your pleasure be fulfill'd!
Your princely father and my loving lord!
Your royal presences be rul'd by me:
Your scruple to the voice of Christendom.
Your sharpest deeds of malice on this town.
Your tale must be how he employ'd my mother.
Yourself and your accusers, and to have heard you
Yourself pronounce their office. I must tell you
Zeal and obedience he still bore your Grace,
[ Within: Do you hear, master porter?]
[Aside]  It shall be to the Duchess of Alencon,
[Aside] To say the truth, so Judas kiss'd his master
[To ABERGAVENNY]  The King
[To CRANMER]  Good man, sit down. Now let me see the proudest
[To WARWICK] Yet I confess that often ere this day,
[To her WOMEN]  Alas, poor wenches, where are now
[Within: Good master porter, I belong to th' larder.]
adieu.
against me; he stands there like a mortar-piece, to blow us.
amongst 'em, I think surely.
and all together.
and fight for bitten apples; that no audience but the tribulation
and strong ones; these are but switches to 'em. I'll scratch
before a subject, if not before the King; which stopp'd
besides the running banquet of two beadles that is to come.
brothers, are able to endure. I have some of 'em in Limbo
concerning his imprisonment was rather-
deliver'd such a show'r of pebbles that I was fain to draw
dozens? Is this Moorfields to muster in? Or have we some
dwell in his musings; but I am afraid
face, for, o' my conscience, twenty of the dog-days now
for ale and cakes here, you rude rascals?
for kindling such a combustion in the state. I miss'd the
gaping.
give her two.
had, I saw well chosen, ridden, and furnish'd. They were
her.
is at door! On my Christian conscience, this one christening
keeps the wind!
life, long and ever-happy, to the high and mighty
meteor once, and hit that woman, who cried out 'Clubs!'
mine honour in and let 'em win the work: the devil was
my Lord Cardinal's, by commission, and main power, took
of Tower-hill or the limbs of Limehouse, their dear
our mouths, sir.'
patience, be near me still, and set me lower:
rail'd upon me till her pink'd porringer fell off her head,
reign in's nose; all that stand about him are under the line,
shall lessen this big look.
she was quartered. They fell on; I made good my place.
somewhat near the door, he should be a brazier by his
still him in praise; and being present both,
still; when suddenly a file of boys behind 'em, loose shot,
strange Indian with the great tool come to court, the
take the court for Paris garden? Ye rude slaves, leave your
they need no other penance. That fire-drake did I hit three
this a place to roar in? Fetch me a dozen crab-tree staves,
times on the head, and three times was his nose discharged
to fall.
to her succour, which were the hope o' th' Strand, where
vantages.
what is pomp, rule, reign, but earth and dust?
when I might see from far some forty truncheoners draw
will beget a thousand: here will be father, godfather,
women so besiege us? Bless me, what a fry of fornication
young and handsome, and of the best breed in the north.
your heads. You must be seeing christenings? Do you look
10. Certain LADIES or COUNTESSES, with plain circlets of gold
sitting in a chair. GLOUCESTER and HASTINGS fly over the stage
A CRIER
ABERGAVENNY. A proper tide of a peace, and purchas'd
ABERGAVENNY. As the Duke said,
ABERGAVENNY. I cannot tell
ABERGAVENNY. I do know
ABERGAVENNY. Is it therefore
ALL. Long live Edward the Fourth!
ALL. We are.
AN OLD LADY, friend to Anne Bullen
ANNE BULLEN, her Maid of Honour, afterwards Queen
ANNE. By my troth and maidenhead,
ANNE. Come, you are pleasant.
ANNE. Good lady,
ANNE. How you do talk!
ANNE. I do not know
ANNE. My good lord,
ANNE. My honour'd lord!                       Exit LORD CHAMBERLAIN
ANNE. Nay, good troth.
ANNE. No, in truth.
ANNE. No, not for all the riches under heaven.
ANNE. Not for that neither. Here's the pang that pinches:
ANNE. Now, I pray God, amen!
ANNE. O, God's will! much better
ANNE. So much the more
ANNE. This is strange to me.
ANNE. Was he mad, sir?
ANNE. You are a merry gamester,
ANNE. You cannot show me.
ARTHUR. God shall forgive you Coeur-de-lion's death
ARTHUR. Good my mother, peace!
AUSTRIA. By how much unexpected, by so much
AUSTRIA. I from the north.
AUSTRIA. Peace!
AUSTRIA. Peace! no more.
AUSTRIA. The peace of heaven is theirs that lift their swords
AUSTRIA. Upon thy cheek lay I this zealous kiss
AUSTRIA. What cracker is this same that deafs our ears
AUSTRIA. What the devil art thou?
BASTARD.  [Aside]  O prudent discipline! From north to south,
BASTARD. An if thou hast the mettle of a king,
BASTARD. As faithfully as I deny the devil.
BASTARD. Bastards and else.
BASTARD. Because he hath a half-face, like my father.
BASTARD. Brother by th' mother's side, give me your hand;
BASTARD. Brother, adieu. Good fortune come to thee!
BASTARD. Brother, take you my land, I'll take my chance.
BASTARD. By heaven, these scroyles of Angiers flout you, kings,
BASTARD. Ha, majesty! how high thy glory tow'rs
BASTARD. Hear the crier.
BASTARD. I know not why, except to get the land.
BASTARD. I, madam? No, I have no reason for it-
BASTARD. It lies as sightly on the back of him
BASTARD. James Gurney, wilt thou give us leave awhile?
BASTARD. Knight, knight, good mother, Basilisco-like.
BASTARD. Madam, an if my brother had my shape
BASTARD. Madam, by chance, but not by truth; what though?
BASTARD. Most certain of one mother, mighty king-
BASTARD. My brother Robert, old Sir Robert's son?
BASTARD. Now, by this light, were I to get again,
BASTARD. O, tremble, for you hear the lion roar!
BASTARD. Of no more force to dispossess me, sir,
BASTARD. One that will play the devil, sir, with you,
BASTARD. Our country manners give our betters way.
BASTARD. Philip, my liege, so is my name begun:
BASTARD. Philip-Sparrow! James,
BASTARD. Saint George, that swing'd the dragon, and e'er since
BASTARD. Some bastards too.
BASTARD. Speed then to take advantage of the field.
BASTARD. Well, sir, by this you cannot get my land:
BASTARD. Your faithful subject I, a gentleman
BISHOP OF LINCOLN             LORD ABERGAVENNY
BLANCH. O, well did he become that lion's robe
BONA. Dear brother, how shall Bona be reveng'd
BONA. My quarrel and this English queen's are one.
BONA. Tell him, in hope he'll prove a widower shortly,
BONA. Your grant or your denial shall be mine.
BOTH. You may command us, sir.                               Exeunt
BOY. It hath struck.
BRANDON, and a SERGEANT-AT-ARMS
BRANDON. A monk o' th' Chartreux.
BRANDON. He.
BRANDON. Here is warrant from
BRANDON. I am sorry
BRANDON. Nay, he must bear you company.
BRANDON. Your office, sergeant: execute it.
BUCKINGHAM. All good people,
BUCKINGHAM. All the whole time
BUCKINGHAM. An untimely ague
BUCKINGHAM. Every man,
BUCKINGHAM. Good morrow, and well met. How have ye done
BUCKINGHAM. I pray you, who, my lord?
BUCKINGHAM. I read in's looks
BUCKINGHAM. I'll to the King,
BUCKINGHAM. It will help nothing
BUCKINGHAM. Lo you, my lord,
BUCKINGHAM. My surveyor is false. The o'er-great Cardinal
BUCKINGHAM. Nay, Sir Nicholas,
BUCKINGHAM. No, not a syllable:
BUCKINGHAM. O, Nicholas Hopkins?
BUCKINGHAM. O, many
BUCKINGHAM. O, you go far!
BUCKINGHAM. Pray, give me favour, sir; this cunning cardinal
BUCKINGHAM. Sir Thomas Lovell, I as free forgive you
BUCKINGHAM. Sir,
BUCKINGHAM. So, so!
BUCKINGHAM. The devil speed him! No man's pie is freed
BUCKINGHAM. This butcher's cur is venom-mouth'd, and I
BUCKINGHAM. To th' King I'll say't, and make my vouch as strong
BUCKINGHAM. Who did guide-
BUCKINGHAM. Why the devil,
BUCKINGHAM. Why, all this business
BUTTS.  [Aside]  This is a piece of malice. I am glad
BUTTS. I think your Highness saw this many a day.
BUTTS. I'll show your Grace the strangest sight-
BUTTS. There my lord:
CAMPEIUS. Believe me, there's an ill opinion spread then,
CAMPEIUS. His Grace
CAMPEIUS. I would your Grace
CAMPEIUS. Madam, you'll find it so. You wrong your virtues
CAMPEIUS. Most honour'd madam,
CAMPEIUS. My Lord of York, was not one Doctor Pace
CAMPEIUS. Put your main cause into the King's protection;
CAMPEIUS. So please your Highness,
CAMPEIUS. The Queen is obstinate,
CAMPEIUS. They will not stick to say you envied him
CAMPEIUS. Was he not held a learned man?
CAMPEIUS. Your Grace must needs deserve an strangers' loves,
CAMPEIUS. Your fears are worse.
CAMPEIUS. Your rage mistakes us.
CAPUCIUS, Ambassador from the Emperor Charles V
CAPUCIUS. By heaven, I will,
CAPUCIUS. Madam, in good health.
CAPUCIUS. Madam, the same-your servant.
CAPUCIUS. Most willing, madam.
CAPUCIUS. Noble lady,
CARDINAL WOLSEY               CARDINAL CAMPEIUS
CHAMBERLAIN. 'My lord,
CHAMBERLAIN. 'Tis now too certain;
CHAMBERLAIN. An't please your Grace, Sir Thomas Bullen's
CHAMBERLAIN. As I live,
CHAMBERLAIN. As far as I see, all the good our English
CHAMBERLAIN. Because they speak no English, thus they pray'd
CHAMBERLAIN. Death! my lord,
CHAMBERLAIN. Excuse me,
CHAMBERLAIN. Good day to both your Graces.
CHAMBERLAIN. Good morrow, ladies. What were't worth to know
CHAMBERLAIN. Heaven keep me from such counsel! 'Tis most true
CHAMBERLAIN. How now! what is't?
CHAMBERLAIN. I am glad 'tis there. Now I would pray our monsieurs
CHAMBERLAIN. I left him private,
CHAMBERLAIN. I will, my lord.
CHAMBERLAIN. Is't possible the spells of France should juggle
CHAMBERLAIN. It seems the marriage with his brother's wife
CHAMBERLAIN. It was a gentle business and becoming
CHAMBERLAIN. Lady,
CHAMBERLAIN. Look out there, some of ye.             Exit a SERVANT
CHAMBERLAIN. Mercy o' me, what a multitude are here!
CHAMBERLAIN. My lords, you speak your pleasures.
CHAMBERLAIN. No doubt he's noble;
CHAMBERLAIN. Now, God incense him,
CHAMBERLAIN. O my lord,
CHAMBERLAIN. O, 'tis true;
CHAMBERLAIN. Sir Thomas,
CHAMBERLAIN. Such a one, they all confess,
CHAMBERLAIN. Sweet ladies, will it please you sit? Sir Harry,
CHAMBERLAIN. The King in this perceives him how he coasts
CHAMBERLAIN. This is the King's ring.
CHAMBERLAIN. True, they are so;
CHAMBERLAIN. Well said, Lord Sandys;
CHAMBERLAIN. Well said, my lord.
CHAMBERLAIN. What a loss our ladies
CHAMBERLAIN. What is't for?
CHAMBERLAIN. You are young, Sir Harry Guildford.
CHAMBERLAIN. You bear a gentle mind, and heav'nly blessings
CHAMBERLAIN. Your Grace?
CHANCELLOR. Let him come in.
CHANCELLOR. My good Lord Archbishop, I am very sorry
CHANCELLOR. Speak to the business, master secretary;
CHANCELLOR. Then thus for you, my lord: it stands agreed,
CHANCELLOR. This is too much;
CHANCELLOR. Thus far,
CHATILLON. Philip of France, in right and true behalf
CHATILLON. The proud control of fierce and bloody war,
CHATILLON. Then take my king's defiance from my mouth-
CHATILLON. Then turn your forces from this paltry siege
CHATILLON. Thus, after greeting, speaks the King of France
CITIZEN. A greater pow'r than we denies all this;
CITIZEN. Hear us, great kings: vouchsafe awhile to stay,
CITIZEN. Heralds, from off our tow'rs we might behold
CITIZEN. In brief: we are the King of England's subjects;
CITIZEN. That can we not; but he that proves the King,
CITIZEN. That daughter there of Spain, the Lady Blanch,
CITIZEN. The King of England, when we know the King.
CITIZEN. Till you compound whose right is worthiest,
CITIZEN. Who is it that hath warn'd us to the walls?
CLARENCE. A little fire is quickly trodden out,
CLARENCE. A little gale will soon disperse that cloud
CLARENCE. Alas, you know 'tis far from hence to France!
CLARENCE. And there's for twitting me with perjury.
CLARENCE. As red as fire! Nay, then her wax must melt.
CLARENCE. As well as Lewis of France or the Earl of Warwick,
CLARENCE. Belike the elder; Clarence will have the younger.
CLARENCE. By heaven, I will not do thee so much ease.
CLARENCE. Clarence, Clarence, for Lancaster!
CLARENCE. Didst thou not hear me swear I would not do it?
CLARENCE. Fear not that, my lord.
CLARENCE. For this one speech Lord Hastings well deserves
CLARENCE. He is the bluntest wooer in Christendom.
CLARENCE. I mind to tell him plainly what I think.
CLARENCE. In choosing for yourself you show'd your judgment,
CLARENCE. In sign of truth, I kiss your Highness' hand.
CLARENCE. It shall be done, my sovereign, with all speed.
CLARENCE. No, Warwick, thou art worthy of the sway,
CLARENCE. Or else you would not have bestow'd the heir
CLARENCE. That he consents, if Warwick yield consent,
CLARENCE. That's a day longer than a wonder lasts.
CLARENCE. The duty that I owe unto your Majesty
CLARENCE. Then this is mine opinion: that King Lewis
CLARENCE. To London, all in post; and, as I guess,
CLARENCE. To who, my lord?
CLARENCE. Untutor'd lad, thou art too malapert.
CLARENCE. What else? And that succession be determin'd.
CLARENCE. What will your Grace have done with Margaret?
CLARENCE. What? what?
CLARENCE. When he was made a shriver, 'twas for shrift.
CLARENCE. [Aside to GLOUCESTER] He knows the game; how true he
CLARENCE. [Aside to GLOUCESTER] I fear her not, unless she chance
CLARENCE. [Aside to GLOUCESTER] I think he means to beg a child of
CLARENCE. [Taking the red rose from his hat and throwing
CLIFFORD. And reason too:
CLIFFORD. Ay, and old York, and yet not satisfied.
CLIFFORD. Ay, crook-back, here I stand to answer thee,
CLIFFORD. Here burns my candle out; ay, here it dies,
CLIFFORD. I slew thy father; call'st thou him a child?
CLIFFORD. I would your Highness would depart the field:
CLIFFORD. My gracious liege, this too much lenity
CLIFFORD. My liege, the wound that bred this meeting here
CLIFFORD. Now, Richard, I am with thee here alone.
CLIFFORD. Why, that is spoken like a toward prince.
CLIFFORD. You said so much before, and yet you fled.
CONSTANCE. Ay, who doubts that? A will, a wicked will;
CONSTANCE. Do, child, go to it grandam, child;
CONSTANCE. I have but this to say-
CONSTANCE. Let me make answer: thy usurping son.
CONSTANCE. My bed was ever to thy son as true
CONSTANCE. Now shame upon you, whe'er she does or no!
CONSTANCE. O, take his mother's thanks, a widow's thanks,
CONSTANCE. Stay for an answer to your embassy,
CONSTANCE. There's a good grandam, boy, that would blot thee.
CONSTANCE. Thou monstrous injurer of heaven and earth,
CRANMER, ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY
CRANMER.  [Aside]  'Tis Butts,
CRANMER.  [Aside]  I am fearful-wherefore frowns he thus?
CRANMER.  [Kneeling]  And to your royal Grace and the
CRANMER.  [Kneeling]  It is my duty
CRANMER. Ah, my good Lord of Winchester, I thank you;
CRANMER. Amen.
CRANMER. And let heaven
CRANMER. Elizabeth.
CRANMER. For me?
CRANMER. God and your Majesty
CRANMER. I hope I am not too late; and yet the gentleman
CRANMER. I humbly thank your Highness
CRANMER. Is there no other way of mercy,
CRANMER. Let me speak, sir,
CRANMER. Most dread liege,
CRANMER. My good lords, hitherto in all the progress
CRANMER. She shall be, to the happiness of England,
CRANMER. So.
CRANMER. Stay, good my lords,
CRANMER. The greatest monarch now alive may glory
CRANMER. Why?
CRIER. Henry King of England, &c.
CRIER. Katharine Queen of England, &c.
CRIER. Katharine Queen of England, come into the court.
CROMWELL, servant to Wolsey
CROMWELL. And I.
CROMWELL. Do.
CROMWELL. Good sir, have patience.
CROMWELL. How does your Grace?
CROMWELL. I am glad your Grace has made that right use of it.
CROMWELL. I have no power to speak, sir.
CROMWELL. I think by this he is.
CROMWELL. Last, that the Lady Anne,
CROMWELL. My Lord of Winchester, y'are a little,
CROMWELL. My mind gave me,
CROMWELL. Not sound?
CROMWELL. O my lord,
CROMWELL. Please your honours,
CROMWELL. Presently
CROMWELL. That Cranmer is return'd with welcome,
CROMWELL. The heaviest and the worst
CROMWELL. The next is that Sir Thomas More is chosen
CROMWELL. To his own hand, in's bedchamber.
CROMWELL. Why, my lord?
CROMWELL. Would you were half so honest!
CROMWELL. Yes.
DENNY. Ay, my good lord.
DENNY. He attends your Highness' pleasure.
DENNY. Sir, I have brought my lord the Archbishop,
DOCTOR BUTTS, physician to the King
DOORKEEPER Of the Council chamber
DUKE OF NORFOLK               DUKE OF BUCKINGHAM
DUKE OF SUFFOLK               EARL OF SURREY
EDWARD. 'Tis wondrous strange, the like yet never heard of.
EDWARD. A wisp of straw were worth a thousand crowns
EDWARD. And in this resolution I defy thee;
EDWARD. And now the battle's ended,
EDWARD. Bootless is flight: they follow us with wings;
EDWARD. Bring forth that fatal screech-owl to our house,
EDWARD. Clifford, repent in bootless penitence.
EDWARD. Dazzle mine eyes, or do I see three suns?
EDWARD. Even as thou wilt, sweet Warwick, let it be;
EDWARD. His name that valiant duke hath left with thee;
EDWARD. I am his king, and he should bow his knee.
EDWARD. I wonder how our princely father scap'd,
EDWARD. Lord Warwick, on thy shoulder will I lean;
EDWARD. No, wrangling woman, we'll no longer stay;
EDWARD. Now breathe we, lords. Good fortune bids us pause
EDWARD. Now, perjur'd Henry, wilt thou kneel for grace
EDWARD. O Warwick, I do bend my knee with thine,
EDWARD. O Warwick, Warwick! that Plantagenet
EDWARD. O, speak no more! for I have heard too much.
EDWARD. Say, Henry, shall I have my right, or no?
EDWARD. Smile, gentle heaven, or strike, ungentle death;
EDWARD. Sweet Duke of York, our prop to lean upon,
EDWARD. Then strike up drums. God and Saint George for us!
EDWARD. Thou pitied'st Rutland, I will pity thee.
EDWARD. Where is the Duke of Norfolk, gentle Warwick?
ELINOR. A strange beginning- 'borrowed majesty'!
ELINOR. Come to thy grandam, child.
ELINOR. He hath a trick of Coeur-de-lion's face;
ELINOR. His mother shames him so, poor boy, he weeps.
ELINOR. I like thee well. Wilt thou forsake thy fortune,
ELINOR. Nay, I would have you go before me thither.
ELINOR. Out on thee, rude man! Thou dost shame thy mother,
ELINOR. Out, insolent! Thy bastard shall be king,
ELINOR. The very spirit of Plantagenet!
ELINOR. There's a good mother, boy, that blots thy father.
ELINOR. Thou monstrous slanderer of heaven and earth!
ELINOR. Thou unadvised scold, I can produce
ELINOR. What now, my son! Have I not ever said
ELINOR. Whether hadst thou rather be a Faulconbridge,
ELINOR. Who is it thou dost call usurper, France?
ELINOR. Your strong possession much more than your right,
ENGLISH HERALD. Rejoice, you men of Angiers, ring your bells:
ESSEX. My liege, here is the strangest controversy
EXETER. Away! for vengeance comes along with them.
EXETER. Hark, hark, my lord! What shouts are these?
EXETER. The doubt is that he will seduce the rest.
FATHER. How will my wife for slaughter of my son
FATHER. These arms of mine shall be thy winding-sheet;
FATHER. Thou that so stoutly hath resisted me,
FATHER. Was ever father so bemoan'd his son?
FIRST GENTLEMAN. 'Tis likely,
FIRST GENTLEMAN. 'Tis the Cardinal;
FIRST GENTLEMAN. 'Tis the same-High Steward.
FIRST GENTLEMAN. 'Tis very true. But that time offer'd
FIRST GENTLEMAN. 'Tis woeful.
FIRST GENTLEMAN. At his return
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Good angels keep it from us!
FIRST GENTLEMAN. How was it?
FIRST GENTLEMAN. I'll save you
FIRST GENTLEMAN. I'll tell you in a little. The great Duke.
FIRST GENTLEMAN. It is; and all the rest are countesses.
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Let me have it;
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Marquis Dorset;
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Never greater,
FIRST GENTLEMAN. No more of that.
FIRST GENTLEMAN. O, this is full of pity! Sir, it calls,
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Sir,
FIRST GENTLEMAN. So are a number more.
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Stay there, sir,
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Sure, he does not;
FIRST GENTLEMAN. That I can tell you too. The Archbishop
FIRST GENTLEMAN. The same.
FIRST GENTLEMAN. They that bear
FIRST GENTLEMAN. When he was brought again to th' bar to hear
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Whither away so fast?
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Y'are well met once again.
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Yes, but it held not;
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Yes, indeed, was I.
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Yes, truly is he, and condemn'd upon't.
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Yes.
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Yes; 'tis the list
FIRST GENTLEMAN. You come to take your stand here, and
FIRST GENTLEMAN. You may guess quickly what.
FIRST KEEPER. Ay, here's a deer whose skin's a keeper's fee.
FIRST KEEPER. Forbear awhile; we'll hear a little more.
FIRST KEEPER. No;
FIRST KEEPER. That cannot be; the noise of thy cross-bow
FIRST KEEPER. Under this thick-grown brake we'll shroud ourselves,
FIRST KEEPER. We are true subjects to the King, King Edward.
FIRST KEEPER. We charge you, in God's name and the King's,
FIRST MESSENGER. By this at Dunsmore, marching hitherward.
FIRST WATCHMAN. 'Tis the Lord Hastings, the King's chiefest friend.
FIRST WATCHMAN. Come on, my masters, each man take his stand;
FIRST WATCHMAN. Unless our halberds did shut up his passage.
FIRST WATCHMAN. Who goes there?
FIRST WATCHMAN. Why, no; for he hath made a solemn vow
FRENCH HERALD. You men of Angiers, open wide your gates
GARDINER, BISHOP OF WINCHESTER
GARDINER.  [Aside to WOLSEY]  But to be commanded
GARDINER. But, sir, sir-
GARDINER. Do not I know you for a favourer
GARDINER. Dread sovereign, how much are we bound to heaven
GARDINER. Good Master Secretary,
GARDINER. Has he had knowledge of it?
GARDINER. I did, Sir Thomas, and left him at primero
GARDINER. I have done.
GARDINER. I shall remember this bold language.
GARDINER. It's one o'clock, boy, is't not?
GARDINER. My lord, because we have business of more moment,
GARDINER. My lord, my lord, you are a sectary;
GARDINER. Not sound, I say.
GARDINER. Not yet, Sir Thomas Lovell. What's the matter?
GARDINER. Receive him,
GARDINER. The fruit she goes with
GARDINER. These should be hours for necessities,
GARDINER. What other
GARDINER. Which reformation must be sudden too,
GARDINER. With a true heart
GARDINER. Yes, yes, Sir Thomas,
GARDINER. Yes.
GARTER KING-AT-ARMS
GARTER. Heaven, from thy endless goodness, send prosperous
GENTLEMAN USHER. Madam, you are call'd back.
GENTLEMAN.  [Within]  Come back; what mean you?
GENTLEMAN. An't please your Grace, the two great Cardinals
GENTLEMAN. They will'd me say so, madam.
GEORGE. But when we saw our sunshine made thy spring,
GEORGE. If so thou think'st, vex him with eager words.
GEORGE. Our hap is lost, our hope but sad despair;
GEORGE. Where's Captain Margaret, to fence you now?
GEORGE. While we devise fell tortures for thy faults.
GEORGE. Yet let us all together to our troops,
GLOUCESTER. A wise stout captain, and soon persuaded!
GLOUCESTER. Alas, that Warwick had no more forecast,
GLOUCESTER. And Warwick, doing what you gave in charge,
GLOUCESTER. And fearless minds climb soonest unto crowns.
GLOUCESTER. And his well-chosen bride.
GLOUCESTER. And shall have your will, because our King.
GLOUCESTER. And that I love the tree from whence thou sprang'st,
GLOUCESTER. And yet methinks your Grace hath not done well
GLOUCESTER. Away betimes, before his forces join,
GLOUCESTER. Ay, Edward will use women honourably.
GLOUCESTER. Ay, by my faith, for a poor earl to give.
GLOUCESTER. Ay, in despite of all that shall withstand you.
GLOUCESTER. Brother, the time and case requireth haste;
GLOUCESTER. Brother, this is Sir John Montgomery,
GLOUCESTER. But wherefore stay we? 'Tis no time to talk.
GLOUCESTER. By heaven, brat, I'll plague ye for that word.
GLOUCESTER. By so much is the wonder in extremes.
GLOUCESTER. Clarence, excuse me to the King my brother.
GLOUCESTER. Come then, away; let's ha' no more ado.
GLOUCESTER. Come, Warwick, take the time; kneel down, kneel down.
GLOUCESTER. For God's sake, take away this captive scold.
GLOUCESTER. Good day, my lord. What, at your book so hard?
GLOUCESTER. He plies her hard; and much rain wears the marble.
GLOUCESTER. I thought, at least, he would have said the King;
GLOUCESTER. I'll hear no more. Die, prophet, in thy speech.
GLOUCESTER. It is; and lo where youthful Edward comes.
GLOUCESTER. Marry, and shall.             [Offers to kill her]
GLOUCESTER. Not I.
GLOUCESTER. Now tell me, brother Clarence, what think you
GLOUCESTER. Now, my Lord Hastings and Sir William Stanley,
GLOUCESTER. See how the surly Warwick mans the wall.
GLOUCESTER. Sirrah, leave us to ourselves; we must confer.
GLOUCESTER. Sprawl'st thou? Take that, to end thy agony.
GLOUCESTER. Suspicion always haunts the guilty mind:
GLOUCESTER. That would be ten days' wonder at the least.
GLOUCESTER. That you might still have worn the petticoat
GLOUCESTER. The Queen is valued thirty thousand strong,
GLOUCESTER. The Tower! the Tower!                         Exit
GLOUCESTER. The gates are open, let us enter too.
GLOUCESTER. The gates made fast! Brother, I like not this;
GLOUCESTER. The ghostly father now hath done his shrift.
GLOUCESTER. The match is made; she seals it with a curtsy.
GLOUCESTER. The widow likes him not; she knits her brows.
GLOUCESTER. The widow likes it not, for she looks very sad.
GLOUCESTER. Think'st thou I am an executioner?
GLOUCESTER. Thou and thy brother both shall buy this treason
GLOUCESTER. Thy son I kill'd for his presumption.
GLOUCESTER. Two of thy name, both Dukes of Somerset,
GLOUCESTER. Welcome, good Clarence; this is brother-like.
GLOUCESTER. Well guess'd, believe me; for that was my meaning.
GLOUCESTER. What, will the aspiring blood of Lancaster
GLOUCESTER. Why should she live to fill the world with words?
GLOUCESTER. Why, brother, wherefore stand you on nice points?
GLOUCESTER. Why, what a peevish fool was that of Crete
GLOUCESTER. Your Highness shall do well to grant her suit;
GLOUCESTER. [Aside to CLARENCE] God forbid that, for he'll take
GLOUCESTER. [Aside to CLARENCE] Nay, then whip me; he'll rather
GLOUCESTER. [Aside to CLARENCE] Silence!
GLOUCESTER. [Aside to CLARENCE] Yea, is it so?
GLOUCESTER. [Aside] Ay, good leave have you; for you will have
GLOUCESTER. [Aside] Ay, widow? Then I'll warrant you all your
GLOUCESTER. [Aside] But when the fox hath once got in his nose,
GLOUCESTER. [Aside] I hear, yet say not much, but think the more.
GLOUCESTER. [Aside] I'll blast his harvest if your head were laid;
GLOUCESTER. [Aside] Not I.
GLOUCESTER. [Aside] You shall have four if you'll be rul'd by him.
GRIFFITH, gentleman-usher to Queen Katharine
GRIFFITH. At last, with easy roads, he came to Leicester,
GRIFFITH. How does your Grace?
GRIFFITH. I am most joyful, madam, such good dreams
GRIFFITH. Madam, we are here.
GRIFFITH. Noble madam,
GRIFFITH. None, madam.
GRIFFITH. She is asleep. Good wench, let's sit down quiet,
GRIFFITH. She is going, wench. Pray, pray.
GRIFFITH. This Cardinal,
GRIFFITH. Well, the voice goes, madam;
GRIFFITH. Yes, madam; but I think your Grace,
GRIFFITH. You are to blame,
GUILDFORD. Ladies, a general welcome from his Grace
GURNEY. Good leave, good Philip.
HASTINGS. 'Tis better using France than trusting France.
HASTINGS. And Hastings as he favours Edward's cause!
HASTINGS. Away with scrupulous wit! Now arms must rule.
HASTINGS. My liege, I'll knock once more to summon them.
HASTINGS. Sound trumpet; Edward shall be here proclaim'd.
HASTINGS. The good old man would fain that all were well,
HASTINGS. To Lynn, my lord; and shipt from thence to Flanders.
HASTINGS. Why, Master Mayor, why stand you in a doubt?
HASTINGS. Why, knows not Montague that of itself
HUNTSMAN. Better do so than tarry and be hang'd.
HUNTSMAN. This way, my lord; for this way lies the game.
KATHARINE. Admit him entrance, Griffith; but this fellow
KATHARINE. After my death I wish no other herald,
KATHARINE. Alas, poor man!
KATHARINE. Bid the music leave,
KATHARINE. I thank you, honest lord. Remember me
KATHARINE. In which I have commended to his goodness
KATHARINE. It is not you I call for.
KATHARINE. No? Saw you not, even now, a blessed troop
KATHARINE. O Griffith, sick to death!
KATHARINE. O my good lord, that comfort comes too late,
KATHARINE. O, my Lord,
KATHARINE. Prithee, good Griffith, tell me how he died.
KATHARINE. Sir, I most humbly pray you to deliver
KATHARINE. So may he ever do! and ever flourish
KATHARINE. So may he rest; his faults lie gently on him!
KATHARINE. Spirits of peace, where are ye? Are ye all gone?
KATHARINE. Yes, good Griffith;
KATHARINE. You are a saucy fellow.
KEEPER. My Lord Archbishop;
KEEPER. Without, my noble lords?
KEEPER. Yes, my lord;
KEEPER. Your Grace may enter now.
KEEPER. Your Grace must wait till you be call'd for.
KING EDWARD. 'Tis even so; yet you are Warwick still.
KING EDWARD. 'Twere pity they should lose their father's lands.
KING EDWARD. Alas, poor Clarence! Is it for a wife
KING EDWARD. An easy task; 'tis but to love a king.
KING EDWARD. And would you not do much to do them good?
KING EDWARD. Away with her, and waft her hence to France.
KING EDWARD. Away with her; go, bear her hence perforce.
KING EDWARD. Away, I say; I charge ye bear her hence.
KING EDWARD. Ay, but thou canst do what I mean to ask.
KING EDWARD. Ay, but, I fear me, in another sense.
KING EDWARD. Ay, if thou wilt say ay to my request;
KING EDWARD. Ay, what of that? it was my will and grant;
KING EDWARD. Belike she minds to play the Amazon.
KING EDWARD. Bishop, farewell. Shield thee from Warwick's frown,
KING EDWARD. Brave followers, yonder stands the thorny wood
KING EDWARD. Bring forth the gallant; let us hear him speak.
KING EDWARD. Brother of Gloucester, at Saint Albans' field
KING EDWARD. Brothers, you muse what chat we two have had.
KING EDWARD. But Warwick's king is Edward's prisoner.
KING EDWARD. But now you partly may perceive my mind.
KING EDWARD. But stay thee- 'tis the fruits of love I mean.
KING EDWARD. But whither shall we then?
KING EDWARD. But you will take exceptions to my boon.
KING EDWARD. But, Master Mayor, if Henry be your King,
KING EDWARD. Clarence and Gloucester, love my lovely queen;
KING EDWARD. Clarence and Somerset both gone to Warwick!
KING EDWARD. Et tu Brute- wilt thou stab Caesar too?
KING EDWARD. Go to, we pardon thee; therefore, in brief,
KING EDWARD. Go, trumpet, to the walls, and sound a parle.
KING EDWARD. Ha! durst the traitor breathe out so proud words?
KING EDWARD. He's sudden, if a thing comes in his head.
KING EDWARD. Hold, Richard, hold; for we have done to much.
KING EDWARD. How many children hast thou, widow, tell me.
KING EDWARD. Huntsman, what say'st thou? Wilt thou go along?
KING EDWARD. I blame not her: she could say little less;
KING EDWARD. I'll tell you how these lands are to be got.
KING EDWARD. IS Lewis so brave? Belike he thinks me Henry.
KING EDWARD. Is proclamation made that who finds Edward
KING EDWARD. It were no less; but yet I'll make a pause.
KING EDWARD. Leave me or tarry, Edward will be King,
KING EDWARD. Lords, give us leave; I'll try this widow's wit.
KING EDWARD. My love, forbear to fawn upon their frowns.
KING EDWARD. Nay, stay, Sir John, a while, and we'll debate
KING EDWARD. Nay, this way, man. See where the huntsmen stand.
KING EDWARD. No, by my troth, I did not mean such love.
KING EDWARD. Now am I seated as my soul delights,
KING EDWARD. Now here a period of tumultuous broils.
KING EDWARD. Now tell me, madam, do you love your children?
KING EDWARD. Now welcome more, and ten times more belov'd,
KING EDWARD. Now, Warwick, wilt thou ope the city gates,
KING EDWARD. Now, brother Richard, Lord Hastings, and the rest,
KING EDWARD. Now, brother Richard, will you stand by us?
KING EDWARD. Now, brother of Clarence, how like you our choice
KING EDWARD. Now, messenger, what letters or what news
KING EDWARD. Once more we sit in England's royal throne,
KING EDWARD. Peace, wilful boy, or I will charm your tongue.
KING EDWARD. Sail how thou canst, have wind and tide thy friend,
KING EDWARD. See that he be convey'd unto the Tower.
KING EDWARD. Seize on the shame-fac'd Henry, bear him hence;
KING EDWARD. Setting your scorns and your mislike aside,
KING EDWARD. So other foes may set upon our backs.
KING EDWARD. So, Master Mayor. These gates must not be shut
KING EDWARD. So, lie thou there. Die thou, and die our fear;
KING EDWARD. Stanley, I will requite thy forwardness.
KING EDWARD. Suppose they take offence without a cause;
KING EDWARD. Sweet widow, by my state I swear to thee
KING EDWARD. Take that, the likeness of this railer here.
KING EDWARD. Thanks, brave Montgomery, and thanks unto you all;
KING EDWARD. Thanks, good Montgomery; but we now forget
KING EDWARD. Thanks, noble Clarence; worthy brother, thanks.
KING EDWARD. The Duke! Why, Warwick, when we parted,
KING EDWARD. The harder match'd, the greater victory.
KING EDWARD. Then be it as you will; for 'tis my right,
KING EDWARD. Then get your husband's lands, to do them good.
KING EDWARD. Therein thou wrong'st thy children mightily.
KING EDWARD. Thus far our fortune keeps an upward course,
KING EDWARD. To tell thee plain, I aim to lie with thee.
KING EDWARD. Tush, man, abodements must not now affright us.
KING EDWARD. Welcome, Sir john! But why come you in arms?
KING EDWARD. Well, jest on, brothers; I can tell you both
KING EDWARD. What fates impose, that men must needs abide;
KING EDWARD. What if both Lewis and Warwick be appeas'd
KING EDWARD. What service wilt thou do me if I give them?
KING EDWARD. What, Warwick, wilt thou leave die town and fight?
KING EDWARD. What, doth she swoon? Use means for her recovery.
KING EDWARD. When we grow stronger, then we'll make our claim;
KING EDWARD. Where's Richard gone?
KING EDWARD. Why then 'tis mine, if but by Warwick's gift.
KING EDWARD. Why, Clarence, to myself.
KING EDWARD. Why, and I challenge nothing but my dukedom,
KING EDWARD. Why, so! then am I sure of victory.
KING EDWARD. Why, then thou shalt not have thy husband's lands.
KING EDWARD. Why, then, thy husband's lands I freely give thee.
KING EDWARD. Widow, we will consider of your suit;
KING EDWARD. Yea, brother Richard, are you offended too?
KING EDWARD. Yea, brother of Clarence, art thou here too?
KING EDWARD. Yes, Warwick, Edward dares and leads the way.
KING EDWARD. You cavil, widow; I did mean my queen.
KING EDWARD. You'd think it strange if I should marry her.
KING EDWARD. [Aside] Her looks doth argue her replete with modesty;
KING EDWARD. are advertis'd by our loving friends
KING EDWARD.No more than when my daughters call thee mother.
KING HENRY THE EIGHTH
KING HENRY. A persecutor I am sure thou art.
KING HENRY. Ay, and for much more slaughter after this.
KING HENRY. Ay, as the rocks cheer them that fear their wreck-
KING HENRY. Ay, my good lord- my lord, I should say rather.
KING HENRY. But did you never swear, and break an oath?
KING HENRY. But, with the first of all your chief affairs,
KING HENRY. Come hither, England's hope.
KING HENRY. Edward Plantagenet, arise a knight;
KING HENRY. Farewell, my Hector and my Troy's true hope.
KING HENRY. For what, Lieutenant? For well using me?
KING HENRY. From Scotland am I stol'n, even of pure love,
KING HENRY. Full well hath Clifford play'd the orator,
KING HENRY. Hadst thou been kill'd when first thou didst presume,
KING HENRY. Have done with words, my lords, and hear me speak.
KING HENRY. Here at the palace will I rest a while.
KING HENRY. How will the country for these woeful chances
KING HENRY. I prithee give no limits to my tongue:
KING HENRY. I was anointed king at nine months old;
KING HENRY. I, Daedalus; my poor boy, Icarus;
KING HENRY. In God's name, lead; your King's name be obey'd;
KING HENRY. Let me embrace thee, sour adversity,
KING HENRY. Let's levy men and beat him back again.
KING HENRY. Master Lieutenant, now that God and friends
KING HENRY. More than I seem, and less than I was born to:
KING HENRY. My Lord of Somerset, what youth is that,
KING HENRY. My Queen and son are gone to France for aid;
KING HENRY. My crown is in my heart, not on my head;
KING HENRY. Nay, take me with thee, good sweet Exeter.
KING HENRY. O piteous spectacle! O bloody times!
KING HENRY. Sad-hearted men, much overgone with care,
KING HENRY. So flies the reckless shepherd from the wolf;
KING HENRY. So would you be again to Henry,
KING HENRY. Sweet Oxford, and my loving Montague,
KING HENRY. That's not my fear; my meed hath got me fame:
KING HENRY. The bird that hath been limed in a bush
KING HENRY. This battle fares like to the morning's war,
KING HENRY. Warwick and Clarence, give me both your hands.
KING HENRY. Was ever king so griev'd for subjects' woe?
KING HENRY. Well-minded Clarence, be thou fortunate!
KING HENRY. Where did you dwell when I was King of England?
KING HENRY. Who's there, I say? How dare you thrust yourselves
KING HENRY. Why, am I dead? Do I not breathe a man?
KING HENRY. Why, so I am- in mind; and that's enough.
KING HENRY. Why, that's my fortune too; therefore I'll stay.
KING HENRY. Woe above woe! grief more than common grief!
KING JOHN. A good blunt fellow. Why, being younger born,
KING JOHN. Acknowledge then the King, and let me in.
KING JOHN. Alack, thou dost usurp authority.
KING JOHN. Bear mine to him, and so depart in peace;
KING JOHN. Bedlam, have done.
KING JOHN. Doth not the crown of England prove the King?
KING JOHN. England for itself.
KING JOHN. For our advantage; therefore hear us first.
KING JOHN. France, hast thou yet more blood to cast away?
KING JOHN. From henceforth bear his name whose form thou bearest:
KING JOHN. From whom hast thou this great commission, France,
KING JOHN. Go, Faulconbridge; now hast thou thy desire:
KING JOHN. Here have we war for war, and blood for blood,
KING JOHN. In us that are our own great deputy
KING JOHN. Is that the elder, and art thou the heir?
KING JOHN. Let them approach.                          Exit SHERIFF
KING JOHN. Mine eye hath well examined his parts
KING JOHN. My life as soon. I do defy thee, France.
KING JOHN. Now, by the sky that hangs above our heads,
KING JOHN. Now, say, Chatillon, what would France with us?
KING JOHN. Our strong possession and our right for us!
KING JOHN. Peace be to France, if France in peace permit
KING JOHN. Silence, good mother; hear the embassy.
KING JOHN. Sirrah, your brother is legitimate:
KING JOHN. Speak on with favour; we are bent to hear.
KING JOHN. Then God forgive the sin of all those souls
KING JOHN. To verify our title with their lives.
KING JOHN. Up higher to the plain, where we'll set forth
KING JOHN. We from the west will send destruction
KING JOHN. What art thou?
KING JOHN. What follows if we disallow of this?
KING JOHN. What is thy name?
KING JOHN. Whose party do the townsmen yet admit?
KING JOHN. Why, what a madcap hath heaven lent us here!
KING PHILIP. 'Tis France, for England.
KING PHILIP. A noble boy! Who would not do thee right?
KING PHILIP. A wonder, lady! Lo, upon thy wish,
KING PHILIP. Amen, Amen! Mount, chevaliers; to arms!
KING PHILIP. As many and as well-born bloods as those-
KING PHILIP. Before Angiers well met, brave Austria.
KING PHILIP. England, thou hast not sav'd one drop of blood
KING PHILIP. Excuse it is to beat usurping down.
KING PHILIP. From that supernal judge that stirs good thoughts
KING PHILIP. How much unlook'd for is this expedition!
KING PHILIP. It shall be so; and at the other hill
KING PHILIP. Know him in us that here hold up his right.
KING PHILIP. Let it be so. Say, where will you assault?
KING PHILIP. Our thunder from the south
KING PHILIP. Peace be to England, if that war return
KING PHILIP. Peace, lady! pause, or be more temperate.
KING PHILIP. Speak, citizens, for England; who's your king?
KING PHILIP. Stand in his face to contradict his claim.
KING PHILIP. Well then, to work! Our cannon shall be bent
KING PHILIP. When I have said, make answer to us both.
KING PHILIP. Women and fools, break off your conference.
KING PHILIP. You loving men of Angiers, Arthur's subjects,
KING.  [Aside]  I may perceive
KING.  [To NORFOLK and SUFFOLK]  We are busy; go.
KING.  [Unmasking]  Ye have found him, Cardinal.
KING. 'Tis midnight, Charles;
KING. 'Tis nobly spoken.
KING. 'Tis true. Where is he, Denny?
KING. 'Tis well said again;
KING. A giant traitor!
KING. Alas, good lady!
KING. And once more in mine arms I bid him welcome,
KING. Arise, and take place by us. Half your suit
KING. Avoid the gallery.                     [LOVELL seems to stay]
KING. Ay, and the best she shall have; and my favour
KING. Be of good cheer;
KING. Body a me, where is it?
KING. Bring him to us.                                   Exit DENNY
KING. But little, Charles;
KING. By heaven, she is a dainty one. Sweet heart,
KING. By my life,
KING. Call her again.
KING. Charles, I will play no more to-night;
KING. Charles, good night.                             Exit SUFFOLK
KING. Come hither, Gardiner.                   [Walks and whispers]
KING. Come, come, my lord, you'd spare your spoons. You
KING. Deliver this with modesty to th' Queen.
KING. Fairly answer'd!
KING. Give her an hundred marks. I'll to the Queen.            Exit
KING. Go thy ways, Kate.
KING. Good man, those joyful tears show thy true heart.
KING. Good, my lord,
KING. Ha! Canterbury?
KING. Ha! what, so rank? Ah ha!
KING. Ha, 'tis he indeed.
KING. Have I not made you
KING. Here.
KING. How know'st thou this?
KING. How now, my lord? You do desire to know
KING. I fear, too much.
KING. I have spoke long; be pleas'd yourself to say
KING. I remember
KING. I then mov'd you,
KING. If we did think
KING. It grieves many.
KING. It may well be
KING. Know you not
KING. Lady mine, proceed.
KING. Lead in your ladies, ev'ry one. Sweet partner,
KING. Let him on.
KING. Lovell!
KING. My Lord Cardinal,
KING. My Lord Chamberlain,
KING. My life itself, and the best heart of it,
KING. My noble gossips, y'have been too prodigal;
KING. No, sir, it does not please me.
KING. Now, by thy looks
KING. O Lord Archbishop,
KING. Pray you, arise,
KING. Proceed.
KING. Speak freely.
KING. Speak on.
KING. Stand up, good Canterbury;
KING. Stand up, lord.                   [The KING kisses the child]
KING. Still exaction!
KING. Taxation!
KING. Thank you, good Lord Archbishop.
KING. The fairest hand I ever touch'd! O beauty,
KING. There's his period,
KING. There's something more would out of thee: what say'st?
KING. Things done well
KING. Thou speakest wonders.
KING. Two equal men. The Queen shall be acquainted
KING. Well, well, my lords, respect him;
KING. What piles of wealth hath he accumulated
KING. What say'st thou, ha?
KING. What was that Henton?
KING. What's that, Butts?
KING. What's the need?
KING. Who's there, ha?
KING. Ye are too bold.
KING. You have said well.
KING. You were ever good at sudden commendations,
LADY FAULCONBRIDGE. Hast thou conspired with thy brother too,
LADY FAULCONBRIDGE. Hast thou denied thyself a Faulconbridge?
LADY FAULCONBRIDGE. King Richard Coeur-de-lion was thy father.
LADY FAULCONBRIDGE. Sir Robert's son! Ay, thou unreverend boy,
LADY FAULCONBRIDGE. Where is that slave, thy brother?
LADY GREY. 'Tis better said than done, my gracious lord.
LADY GREY. 'Twill grieve your Grace my sons should call you father.
LADY GREY. And that is more than I will yield unto.
LADY GREY. Ay, full as dearly as I love myself.
LADY GREY. Be pitiful, dread lord, and grant it, then.
LADY GREY. Herein your Highness wrongs both them and me.
LADY GREY. I take my leave with many thousand thanks.
LADY GREY. My love till death, my humble thanks, my prayers;
LADY GREY. My mind will never grant what I perceive
LADY GREY. No, gracious lord, except I cannot do it.
LADY GREY. Right gracious lord, I cannot brook delay.
LADY GREY. So shall you bind me to your Highness' service.
LADY GREY. That's soon perform'd, because I am a subject.
LADY GREY. The fruits of love I mean, my loving liege.
LADY GREY. Then, no, my lord. My suit is at an end.
LADY GREY. Therefore I came unto your Majesty.
LADY GREY. Three, my most gracious lord.
LADY GREY. To do them good I would sustain some harm.
LADY GREY. To tell you plain, I had rather lie in prison.
LADY GREY. What you command that rests in me to do.
LADY GREY. Why stops my lord? Shall I not hear my task?
LADY GREY. Why, then I will do what your Grace commands.
LADY GREY. Why, then mine honesty shall be my dower;
LADY GREY. Why, then you mean not as I thought you did.
LEWIS. And mine with hers, and thine, and Margaret's.
LEWIS. And still is friend to him and Margaret.
LEWIS. But is he gracious in the people's eye?
LEWIS. But, Warwick,
LEWIS. Fair Queen of England, worthy Margaret,
LEWIS. Now, Warwick, tell me, even upon thy conscience,
LEWIS. Now, sister, let us hear your firm resolve.
LEWIS. Queen Margaret, Prince Edward, and Oxford,
LEWIS. Renowned Queen, with patience calm the storm,
LEWIS. The more I stay, the more I'll succour thee.
LEWIS. Then further: all dissembling set aside,
LEWIS. Then, England's messenger, return in post
LEWIS. Then, Warwick, thus: our sister shall be Edward's.
LEWIS. Warwick, this is some post to us or thee.
LEWIS. Warwick, what are thy news? And yours, fair Queen?
LEWIS. Welcome, brave Warwick! What brings thee to France?
LEWIS. What's he approacheth boldly to our presence?
LEWIS. What, has your king married the Lady Grey?
LEWIS. Whate'er it be, be thou still like thyself,
LEWIS. Why, say, fair Queen, whence springs this deep despair?
LEWIS. stay we now? These soldiers shall be levied;
LIEUTENANT. Subjects may challenge nothing of their sov'reigns;
LINCOLN. So please your Highness,
LINCOLN. Very well, my liege.
LORD CHAMBERLAIN              LORD CHANCELLOR
LORD SANDYS                   SIR HENRY GUILDFORD
LOVELL.  [Aside]  This is about that which the bishop spake.
LOVELL. Ay, marry,
LOVELL. Came you from the King, my lord?
LOVELL. Faith, how easy?
LOVELL. Faith, my lord,
LOVELL. I could not personally deliver to her
LOVELL. I do beseech your Grace, for charity,
LOVELL. I must to him too,
LOVELL. Many good nights, my lord; I rest your servant.
LOVELL. Methinks I could
LOVELL. My lord, I love you;
LOVELL. Now, sir, you speak of two
LOVELL. O that your lordship were but now confessor
LOVELL. Sir?
LOVELL. So said her woman; and that her suff'rance made
LOVELL. That churchman bears a bounteous mind indeed,
LOVELL. The reformation of our travell'd gallants,
LOVELL. They must either,
LOVELL. To th' water side I must conduct your Grace;
LOVELL. To the Cardinal's;
LOVELL. Yes, my lord.
Lord Mayor, Aldermen, Lords and Ladies in the Dumb
MAN. Alas, I know not: how gets the tide in?
MAN. I am not Samson, nor Sir Guy, nor Colbrand,
MAN. Pray, sir, be patient; 'tis as much impossible,
MAN. The spoons will be the bigger, sir. There is a fellow
MAN. What would you have me do?
MAN. You great fellow,
MAYOR. Ay, say you so? The gates shall then be open'd.
MAYOR. My lords, we were forewarned of your coming
MAYOR. True, my good lord; I know you for no less.
MESSENGER. 'Tell him' quoth she 'my mourning weeds are done,
MESSENGER. Ah, one that was a woeful looker-on
MESSENGER. An't like your Grace-
MESSENGER. At my depart, these were his very words:
MESSENGER. Ay, gracious sovereign; they are so link'd in friendship
MESSENGER. Environed he was with many foes,
MESSENGER. He, more incens'd against your Majesty
MESSENGER. I humbly do entreat your Highness' pardon;
MESSENGER. My sovereign liege, no letters, and few words,
MESSENGER. Prepare you, lords, for Edward is at hand
MESSENGER. Royal commanders, be in readiness;
MESSENGER. The Duke of Norfolk sends you word by me
MESSENGER. These were her words, utt'red with mild disdain:
MONTAGUE. But the safer when 'tis back'd with France.
MONTAGUE. Comfort, my lord; and so I take my leave.
MONTAGUE. Montague, Montague, for Lancaster!
MONTAGUE. So God help Montague as he proves true!
MONTAGUE. Yet to have join'd with France in such alliance
MONTGOMERY. And whoso'er gainsays King Edward's right,
MONTGOMERY. Ay, now my sovereign speaketh like himself;
MONTGOMERY. Then fare you well, for I will hence again.
MONTGOMERY. To help King Edward in his time of storm,
MONTGOMERY. What talk you of debating? In few words:
NOBLEMAN. My gracious lord, Henry your foe is taken
NORFOLK.  [Aside to SUFFOLK]  If it do,
NORFOLK.  [Aside to SUFFOLK]  This priest has no pride in him!
NORFOLK. 'Tis so;
NORFOLK. 'Twixt Guynes and Arde-
NORFOLK. A gracious king that pardons all offences
NORFOLK. All this was ord'red by the good discretion
NORFOLK. An men's!
NORFOLK. And so we'll leave you to your meditations
NORFOLK. As I belong to worship, and affect
NORFOLK. Be advis'd:
NORFOLK. Believe it, this is true:
NORFOLK. But, my lord,
NORFOLK. Do you think, my lords,
NORFOLK. Faith, and so it did.
NORFOLK. Grievingly I think
NORFOLK. He is vex'd at something.
NORFOLK. He's discontented.
NORFOLK. Hear the King's pleasure, Cardinal, who commands you
NORFOLK. How holily he works in all his business!
NORFOLK. I am sorry
NORFOLK. I thank your Grace,
NORFOLK. If you will now unite in your complaints
NORFOLK. It's heaven's will;
NORFOLK. Let's in;
NORFOLK. Like it your Grace,
NORFOLK. Marry, amen!
NORFOLK. Marry, is't.
NORFOLK. My lord, we have
NORFOLK. Not almost appears-
NORFOLK. O, fear him not!
NORFOLK. Observe, observe, he's moody.
NORFOLK. One, certes, that promises no element
NORFOLK. Pray God he be not angry.
NORFOLK. Say not treasonous.
NORFOLK. So I hear.
NORFOLK. Stay, my lord,
NORFOLK. Surely, sir,
NORFOLK. Thanks, my good Lord Chamberlain.
NORFOLK. Then you lost
NORFOLK. Then, that in all you writ to Rome, or else
NORFOLK. This same Cranmer's
NORFOLK. Those articles, my lord, are in the King's hand;
NORFOLK. We had need pray, and heartily, for our deliverance;
NORFOLK. Well met, my Lord Chamberlain.
NORFOLK. What's the cause?
NORFOLK. What, are you chaf'd?
NORFOLK. Which is budded out;
NORFOLK. Who waits there?
NORTHUMBERLAND. Be it with resolution, then, to fight.
NORTHUMBERLAND. No, nor your manhood that durst make you stay.
OLD LADY. 'Tis strange: a threepence bow'd would hire me,
OLD LADY. Alas, poor lady!
OLD LADY. An hundred marks? By this light, I'll ha' more!
OLD LADY. Ay, ay, my liege;
OLD LADY. Beshrew me, I would,
OLD LADY. Hearts of most hard temper
OLD LADY. How tastes it? Is it bitter? Forty pence, no.
OLD LADY. I'll not come back; the tidings that I bring
OLD LADY. In faith, for little England
OLD LADY. Our content
OLD LADY. Then you are weakly made. Pluck off a little;
OLD LADY. What do you think me?                              Exeunt
OLD LADY. Why, this it is: see, see!
OLD LADY. With your theme I could
OLD LADY. Yes, troth and troth. You would not be a queen!
OXFORD. Away, away, to meet the Queen's great power!
OXFORD. Ay, for if Edward repossess the crown,
OXFORD. Call him my king by whose injurious doom
OXFORD. For my part, I'll not trouble thee with words.
OXFORD. Here pitch our battle; hence we will not budge.
OXFORD. I like it well that our fair Queen and mistress
OXFORD. I thought no less. It is his policy
OXFORD. Oxford, Oxford, for Lancaster!
OXFORD. Then Warwick disannuls great John of Gaunt,
OXFORD. What now remains, my lords, for us to do
OXFORD. Why, Warwick, canst thou speak against thy liege,
OXFORD. Women and children of so high a courage,
OXFORD. [Kissing the KING'S band] And thus I seal my truth and bid
PATIENCE, woman to Queen Katharine
PATIENCE. Do you note
PATIENCE. Heaven comfort her!
PATIENCE. No, madam.                       [Giving it to KATHARINE]
PORTER, and his MAN           PAGE to Gardiner
PORTER. An't please your honour,
PORTER. Belong to th' gallows, and be hang'd, ye rogue! Is
PORTER. How got they in, and be hang'd?
PORTER. I shall be with you presently, good master puppy.
PORTER. Make way there for the Princess.
PORTER. These are the youths that thunder at a playhouse
PORTER. What should you do, but knock 'em down by th'
PORTER. You did nothing, sir.
PORTER. You i' th' camlet, get up o' th' rail;
PORTER. You'll leave your noise anon, ye rascals. Do you
POST. He was convey'd by Richard Duke of Gloucester
POST. My lord ambassador, these letters are for you,
POST. That Edward is escaped from your brother
PRINCE OF WALES. And take his thanks that yet hath nothing else.
PRINCE OF WALES. And why not Queen?
PRINCE OF WALES. Fly, father, fly; for all your friends are fled,
PRINCE OF WALES. I know my duty; you are all undutiful.
PRINCE OF WALES. If that be right which Warwick says is right,
PRINCE OF WALES. Let Aesop fable in a winter's night;
PRINCE OF WALES. Methinks a woman of this valiant spirit
PRINCE OF WALES. My gracious father, by your kingly leave,
PRINCE OF WALES. My royal father, cheer these noble lords,
PRINCE OF WALES. Nay, mark how Lewis stamps as he were nettled.
PRINCE OF WALES. Nay, take away this scolding crookback rather.
PRINCE OF WALES. Speak like a subject, proud ambitious York.
PRINCE OF WALES. To Edward, but not to the English king.
PRINCE OF WALES. Yes, I accept her, for she well deserves it;
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Ay, almost slain, for he is taken prisoner;
QUEEN ELIZABETH. I am inform'd that he comes towards London
QUEEN ELIZABETH. My lords, before it pleas'd his Majesty
QUEEN ELIZABETH. No, but the loss of his own royal person.
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Till then, fair hope must hinder life's decay.
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Why, brother Rivers, are you yet to learn
QUEEN KATHARINE, wife to King Henry, afterwards divorced
QUEEN KATHARINE.  [Aside]  To betray me.-
QUEEN KATHARINE. Do what ye will my lords; and pray
QUEEN KATHARINE. God mend all!
QUEEN KATHARINE. Have I liv'd thus long-let me speak myself,
QUEEN KATHARINE. How now?
QUEEN KATHARINE. How, sir?
QUEEN KATHARINE. I Will, when you are humble; nay, before
QUEEN KATHARINE. I am much too venturous
QUEEN KATHARINE. I am solicited, not by a few,
QUEEN KATHARINE. I am sorry that the Duke of Buckingham
QUEEN KATHARINE. If I know you well,
QUEEN KATHARINE. In England
QUEEN KATHARINE. Lord Cardinal,
QUEEN KATHARINE. My learn'd Lord Cardinal,
QUEEN KATHARINE. My lord, I dare not make myself so guilty,
QUEEN KATHARINE. My lord, my lord,
QUEEN KATHARINE. Nay, we must longer kneel: I am suitor.
QUEEN KATHARINE. No, my lord!
QUEEN KATHARINE. O, good my lord, no Latin!
QUEEN KATHARINE. Pray their Graces
QUEEN KATHARINE. Sir,
QUEEN KATHARINE. Sir, I desire you do me right and justice,
QUEEN KATHARINE. Speak it here;
QUEEN KATHARINE. Take thy lute, wench. My soul grows
QUEEN KATHARINE. Thank your Majesty.
QUEEN KATHARINE. The more shame for ye; holy men I thought ye,
QUEEN KATHARINE. What need you note it? Pray you keep your way;
QUEEN KATHARINE. Would I had never trod this English earth,
QUEEN KATHARINE. Would they speak with me?
QUEEN KATHARINE. Ye tell me what ye wish for both-my ruin.
QUEEN KATHARINE. Ye turn me into nothing. Woe upon ye,
QUEEN KATHARINE. Your Graces find me here part of housewife;
QUEEN MARGARET. Ah, that thy father had been so resolv'd!
QUEEN MARGARET. Ay, but thou usest to forswear thyself.
QUEEN MARGARET. Ay, good my lord, and leave us to our fortune.
QUEEN MARGARET. Ay, now begins a second storm to rise;
QUEEN MARGARET. Ay, thou wast born to be a plague to men.
QUEEN MARGARET. But thou art neither like thy sire nor dam;
QUEEN MARGARET. Deceitful Warwick, it was thy device
QUEEN MARGARET. Defy them then, or else hold close thy lips.
QUEEN MARGARET. From such a cause as fills mine eyes with tears
QUEEN MARGARET. Go rate thy minions, proud insulting boy.
QUEEN MARGARET. Good Clarence, do; sweet Clarence, do thou do it.
QUEEN MARGARET. Great lords, wise men ne'er sit and wail their
QUEEN MARGARET. Heavens grant that Warwick's words bewitch him not!
QUEEN MARGARET. I told your Majesty as much before.
QUEEN MARGARET. King Lewis and Lady Bona, hear me speak
QUEEN MARGARET. Let me give humble thanks for all at once.
QUEEN MARGARET. Lords, knights, and gentlemen, what I should say
QUEEN MARGARET. Mine such as fill my heart with unhop'd joys.
QUEEN MARGARET. Mount you, my lord; towards Berwick post amain.
QUEEN MARGARET. My lord, cheer up your spirits; our foes are nigh,
QUEEN MARGARET. Nay, never bear me hence; dispatch me here.
QUEEN MARGARET. No, mighty King of France. Now Margaret
QUEEN MARGARET. O Ned, sweet Ned, speak to thy mother, boy!
QUEEN MARGARET. O, but impatience waiteth on true sorrow.
QUEEN MARGARET. O, kill me too!
QUEEN MARGARET. Off with his head, and set it on York gates;
QUEEN MARGARET. Our Earl of Warwick, Edward's greatest friend.
QUEEN MARGARET. Peace, impudent and shameless Warwick,
QUEEN MARGARET. Renowned Prince, how shall poor Henry live
QUEEN MARGARET. So come to you and yours as to this prince.
QUEEN MARGARET. So part we sadly in this troublous world,
QUEEN MARGARET. Stay, Edward.
QUEEN MARGARET. Tell him my mourning weeds are laid aside,
QUEEN MARGARET. Thanks, gentle Somerset; sweet Oxford, thanks.
QUEEN MARGARET. The more we stay, the stronger grows our foe.
QUEEN MARGARET. This cheers my heart, to see your forwardness.
QUEEN MARGARET. Those gracious words revive my drooping thoughts
QUEEN MARGARET. Warwick, these words have turn'd my hate to love;
QUEEN MARGARET. Welcome, my lord, to this brave town of York.
QUEEN MARGARET. Why, how now, long-tongu'd Warwick! Dare you speak?
QUEEN MARGARET. Yes, I agree, and thank you for your motion.
QUEEN MARGARET. [Aside] If that go forward, Henry's hope is done.
RICHARD. 'Twas odds, belike, when valiant Warwick fled.
RICHARD. 'Twas you that kill'd young Rutland, was it not?
RICHARD. Ah, Warwick, why hast thou withdrawn thyself?
RICHARD. Are you there, butcher? O, I cannot speak!
RICHARD. Ay, like a dastard and a treacherous coward,
RICHARD. Ay, now methinks I hear great Warwick speak.
RICHARD. Brother, give me thy hand; and, gentle Warwick,
RICHARD. Clifford, ask mercy and obtain no grace.
RICHARD. For God's sake, lords, give signal to the fight.
RICHARD. Great Lord of Warwick, if we should recount
RICHARD. I cannot joy until I be resolv'd
RICHARD. I cannot weep, for all my body's moisture
RICHARD. I know it well, Lord Warwick; blame me not.
RICHARD. Iron of Naples hid with English gilt,
RICHARD. Let me be Duke of Clarence, George of Gloucester;
RICHARD. Nay, Warwick, single out some other chase;
RICHARD. Nay, bear three daughters- by your leave I speak it,
RICHARD. Nay, if thou be that princely eagle's bird,
RICHARD. Northumberland, I hold thee reverently.
RICHARD. Now, Clifford, I have singled thee alone.
RICHARD. O, would he did! and so, perhaps, he doth.
RICHARD. Revoke that doom of mercy, for 'tis Clifford;
RICHARD. Say how he died, for I will hear it all.
RICHARD. Then, Clifford, were thy heart as hard as steel,
RICHARD. Then, executioner, unsheathe thy sword.
RICHARD. Thou didst love York, and I am son to York.
RICHARD. Three glorious suns, each one a perfect sun;
RICHARD. What, not an oath? Nay, then the world goes hard
RICHARD. Whoever got thee, there thy mother stands;
RICHARD. Whose soul is that which takes her heavy leave?
RIVERS. But, madam, where is Warwick then become?
RIVERS. Madam, what makes you in this sudden change?
RIVERS. Then is my sovereign slain?
RIVERS. These news, I must confess, are full of grief;
RIVERS. What, loss of some pitch'd battle against Warwick?
ROBERT. And once dispatch'd him in an embassy
ROBERT. My gracious liege, when that my father liv'd,
ROBERT. Shall then my father's will be of no force
ROBERT. The son and heir to that same Faulconbridge.
SANDYS. 'Tis time to give 'em physic, their diseases
SANDYS. As easy as a down bed would afford it.
SANDYS. By my faith,
SANDYS. For my little cure,
SANDYS. He may, my lord; has wherewithal. In him
SANDYS. I am your lordship's.                                Exeunt
SANDYS. I told your Grace they would talk anon.
SANDYS. I would I were;
SANDYS. New customs,
SANDYS. No, my lord,
SANDYS. O, very mad, exceeding mad, in love too.
SANDYS. Sir Thomas Lovell, had the Cardinal
SANDYS. The devil fiddle 'em! I am glad they are going,
SANDYS. The red wine first must rise
SANDYS. They have all new legs, and lame ones. One would take it,
SANDYS. Yes, if I make my play.
SANDYS. Your Grace is noble.
SCRIBE. Say 'Henry King of England, come into the court.'
SCRIBE. Say 'Katharine Queen of England, come into the court.'
SECOND GENTLEMAN.  [Looking on the QUEEN]  Heaven
SECOND GENTLEMAN. 'Tis all my business. At our last encounter
SECOND GENTLEMAN. 'Tis well. The citizens,
SECOND GENTLEMAN. A bold brave gentleman. That should be
SECOND GENTLEMAN. A royal train, believe me. These know.
SECOND GENTLEMAN. After all this, how did he bear him-self
SECOND GENTLEMAN. Alas, good lady!                       [Trumpets]
SECOND GENTLEMAN. All the commons
SECOND GENTLEMAN. And that my Lord of Norfolk?
SECOND GENTLEMAN. But that slander, sir,
SECOND GENTLEMAN. But what follow'd?
SECOND GENTLEMAN. But, pray, how pass'd it?
SECOND GENTLEMAN. Certainly
SECOND GENTLEMAN. Good sir, speak it to us.
SECOND GENTLEMAN. He of Winchester
SECOND GENTLEMAN. He will deserve more.
SECOND GENTLEMAN. I am confident.
SECOND GENTLEMAN. I am sorry for't.
SECOND GENTLEMAN. I do not think he fears death.
SECOND GENTLEMAN. I thank you, sir; had I not known
SECOND GENTLEMAN. I think you have hit the mark; but is't
SECOND GENTLEMAN. If the Duke be guiltless,
SECOND GENTLEMAN. Is he found guilty?
SECOND GENTLEMAN. Let's stand close, and behold him.
SECOND GENTLEMAN. May I be bold to ask what that contains,
SECOND GENTLEMAN. O, God save ye!
SECOND GENTLEMAN. Pray, speak what has happen'd.
SECOND GENTLEMAN. So are you.
SECOND GENTLEMAN. That trick of state
SECOND GENTLEMAN. That was he
SECOND GENTLEMAN. Their coronets say so. These are stars indeed,
SECOND GENTLEMAN. This secret is so weighty, 'twill require
SECOND GENTLEMAN. Those men are happy; and so are all
SECOND GENTLEMAN. Were you there?
SECOND GENTLEMAN. What two reverend bishops
SECOND GENTLEMAN. Who may that be, I pray you?
SECOND GENTLEMAN. You saw
SECOND KEEPER. Ay, but thou talk'st as if thou wert a king.
SECOND KEEPER. But, if thou be a king, where is thy crown?
SECOND KEEPER. Here comes a man; let's stay till he be past.
SECOND KEEPER. Here in this country, where we now remain.
SECOND KEEPER. I'll stay above the hill, so both may shoot.
SECOND KEEPER. No, never such an oath; nor will not now.
SECOND KEEPER. Say, what art thou that talk'st of kings and queens?
SECOND KEEPER. Well, if you be a king crown'd with content,
SECOND KEEPER. Why linger we? let us lay hands upon him.
SECOND MESSENGER. By this at Daintry, with a puissant troop.
SECOND WATCHMAN. 'Tis the more honour, because more dangerous.
SECOND WATCHMAN. Ay, wherefore else guard we his royal tent
SECOND WATCHMAN. Stay, or thou diest.
SECOND WATCHMAN. To-morrow then, belike, shall be the day,
SECOND WATCHMAN. What, will he not to bed?
SECRETARY. Ay, please your Grace.
SECRETARY. Here, so please you.
SERGEANT. Sir,
SERVANT. A noble troop of strangers-
SIR NICHOLAS VAUX             SECRETARIES to Wolsey
SIR THOMAS LOVELL             SIR ANTHONY DENNY
SOLDIER. [Reads] 'Edward the Fourth, by the grace of God,
SOMERSET. Ah, Warwick! Montague hath breath'd his last;
SOMERSET. Ah, Warwick, Warwick! wert thou as we are,
SOMERSET. And he that will not fight for such a hope,
SOMERSET. But he's deceiv'd; we are in readiness.
SOMERSET. It shall be so; he shall to Brittany.
SOMERSET. My liege, it is young Henry, Earl of Richmond.
SOMERSET. My lord, I like not of this flight of Edward's;
SOMERSET. My lords, forbear this talk; here comes the King.
SOMERSET. Nor I, but stoop with patience to my fortune.
SOMERSET. Somerset, Somerset, for Lancaster!
SOMERSET. What are they that fly there?
SOMERVILLE. At Southam I did leave him with his forces,
SOMERVILLE. It is not his, my lord; here Southam lies.
SOMERVILLE. They are at hand, and you shall quickly know.
SON. How will my mother for a father's death
SON. I'll bear thee hence, where I may weep my fill.
SON. Ill blows the wind that profits nobody.
SON. Was ever son so rued a father's death?
SUFFOLK.  [Aside to NORFOLK]  I another.
SUFFOLK.  [Aside to NORFOLK]  Not to speak of!
SUFFOLK. 'Tis so.
SUFFOLK. 'Tis the right ring, by heav'n. I told ye all,
SUFFOLK. And free us from his slavery.
SUFFOLK. Believe it.
SUFFOLK. For me, my lords,
SUFFOLK. God safely quit her of her burden, and
SUFFOLK. He has; and we shall see him
SUFFOLK. He is return'd in his opinions; which
SUFFOLK. How is the King employ'd?
SUFFOLK. How sad he looks; sure, he is much afflicted.
SUFFOLK. I wish your Highness
SUFFOLK. Lord Cardinal, the King's further pleasure is-
SUFFOLK. May be he hears the King
SUFFOLK. May you be happy in your wish, my lord!
SUFFOLK. Most Strangely.
SUFFOLK. My amen to't!
SUFFOLK. Nay, my lord,
SUFFOLK. No, his conscience
SUFFOLK. No, no;
SUFFOLK. Pray God he do! He'll never know himself else.
SUFFOLK. Sir, I did never win of you before.
SUFFOLK. That out of mere ambition you have caus'd
SUFFOLK. The Cardinal's letters to the Pope miscarried,
SUFFOLK. The King, the King!
SUFFOLK. Then, that without the knowledge
SUFFOLK. There's order given for her coronation;
SUFFOLK. Which of the peers
SUFFOLK. Who dares cross 'em,
SURREY.  [Aside]  The Lord increase this business!
SURREY. 'Tis no counterfeit.
SURREY. But will the King
SURREY. By my soul,
SURREY. Has the King this?
SURREY. How came
SURREY. I am joyful
SURREY. I forgive him.
SURREY. I had rather want those than my head. Have at you!
SURREY. I would 'twere something that would fret the string,
SURREY. Item, you sent a large commission
SURREY. May it please your Grace-
SURREY. Now, all my joy
SURREY. O, how, how?
SURREY. Sharp enough,
SURREY. Sir,
SURREY. The King, that gave it.
SURREY. Then, that you have sent innumerable substance,
SURREY. This cannot save you.
SURREY. Thou art a proud traitor, priest.
SURREY. Thy ambition,
SURREY. Will this work?
SURREY. Would he had!
SURREY. Yes, that goodness
SURVEYOR to the Duke of Buckingham
SURVEYOR. 'If' quoth he 'I for this had been committed-
SURVEYOR. After 'the Duke his father' with the 'knife,'
SURVEYOR. Being at Greenwich,
SURVEYOR. First, it was usual with him-every day
SURVEYOR. He was brought to this
SURVEYOR. I can, my liege.
SURVEYOR. Not long before your Highness sped to France,
SURVEYOR. On my soul, I'll speak but truth.
SURVEYOR. Sir, a Chartreux friar,
THIRD GENTLEMAN. All the land knows that;
THIRD GENTLEMAN. Among the crowds i' th' Abbey, where a finger
THIRD GENTLEMAN. As well as I am able. The rich stream
THIRD GENTLEMAN. At length her Grace rose, and with
THIRD GENTLEMAN. I know it;
THIRD GENTLEMAN. Stokesly and Gardiner: the one of Winchester,
THIRD GENTLEMAN. That I did.
THIRD GENTLEMAN. Thomas Cromwell,
THIRD GENTLEMAN. Well worth the seeing.
THIRD GENTLEMAN. Yes, without all doubt.
THIRD WATCHMAN. Ay, but give me worship and quietness;
THIRD WATCHMAN. But say, I pray, what nobleman is that
THIRD WATCHMAN. O, is it So? But why commands the King
THREE GENTLEMEN
VAUX. Prepare there;
WARWICK. 'Twas I that gave the kingdom to thy brother.
WARWICK. 'Twas not your valour, Clifford, drove me thence.
WARWICK. Ah, who is nigh? Come to me, friend or foe,
WARWICK. Alas, I am not coop'd here for defence!
WARWICK. And I choose Clarence only for Protector.
WARWICK. And I the house of York.
WARWICK. And lo where George of Clarence sweeps along,
WARWICK. And mine, fair Lady Bona, joins with yours.
WARWICK. Away, away! Once more, sweet lords, farewell.
WARWICK. Ay, but he's dead. Off with the traitor's head,
WARWICK. Ay, but the case is alter'd.
WARWICK. Ay, that's the first thing that we have to do;
WARWICK. Ay, therein Clarence shall not want his part.
WARWICK. Because thy father Henry did usurp;
WARWICK. Can Oxford that did ever fence the right
WARWICK. Clifford, devise excuses for thy faults.
WARWICK. Come, Clarence, come. Thou wilt if Warwick call.
WARWICK. Farewell, sweet lords; let's meet at Coventry.
WARWICK. Forspent with toil, as runners with a race,
WARWICK. From off the gates of York fetch down the head,
WARWICK. From worthy Edward, King of Albion,
WARWICK. Henry now lives in Scotland at his case,
WARWICK. How far off is our brother Montague?
WARWICK. How now! what news?
WARWICK. How now, fair lords! What fare? What news abroad?
WARWICK. How now, my lord. What hap? What hope of good?
WARWICK. I came from Edward as ambassador,
WARWICK. I had rather chop this hand off at a blow,
WARWICK. I think his understanding is bereft.
WARWICK. If thou deny, their blood upon thy head;
WARWICK. In Warwickshire I have true-hearted friends,
WARWICK. Injurious Margaret!
WARWICK. Is not a dukedom, sir, a goodly gift?
WARWICK. King Lewis, I here protest in sight of heaven,
WARWICK. Mine, full of sorrow and heart's discontent.
WARWICK. My brother was too careless of his charge.
WARWICK. Nay, rather, wilt thou draw thy forces hence,
WARWICK. No longer Earl of March, but Duke of York;
WARWICK. No, 'tis impossible he should escape;
WARWICK. Nor now my scandal, Richard, dost thou hear;
WARWICK. O cheerful colours! See where Oxford comes.
WARWICK. O passing traitor, perjur'd and unjust!
WARWICK. O unbid spite! Is sportful Edward come?
WARWICK. O, welcome, Oxford! for we want thy help.
WARWICK. Oxford, how haps it in this smooth discourse
WARWICK. Richard and Hastings. Let them go; here is the Duke.
WARWICK. Say, Somerville, what says my loving son?
WARWICK. So much his friend, ay, his unfeigned friend,
WARWICK. Some six miles off the Duke is with the soldiers;
WARWICK. Such it seems
WARWICK. Sweet rest his soul! Fly, lords, and save yourselves:
WARWICK. Tell him from me that he hath done me wrong,
WARWICK. Ten days ago I drown'd these news in tears;
WARWICK. The more that Henry was unfortunate.
WARWICK. Then 'twas my turn to fly, and now 'tis thine.
WARWICK. Then Clarence is at hand; I hear his drum.
WARWICK. Then let the earth be drunken with our blood.
WARWICK. Then, for his mind, be Edward England's king;
WARWICK. Then, gentle Clarence, welcome unto Warwick;
WARWICK. Thereon I pawn my credit and mine honour.
WARWICK. They mock thee, Clifford; swear as thou wast wont.
WARWICK. This is his tent; and see where stand his guard.
WARWICK. This shall assure my constant loyalty:
WARWICK. Thou art no Atlas for so great a weight;
WARWICK. Trust me, my lord, all hitherto goes well;
WARWICK. Tut, that's a foolish observation.
WARWICK. Unsavoury news! But how made he escape?
WARWICK. What answers Clarence to his sovereign's will?
WARWICK. What counsel, lords? Edward from Belgia,
WARWICK. What news, my friend?
WARWICK. What say'st thou, Henry? Wilt thou yield the crown?
WARWICK. Where is the post that came from valiant Oxford?
WARWICK. Who should that be? Belike unlook'd for friends.
WARWICK. Why then, I would not fly. Ah, Montague,
WARWICK. Why, then it sorts; brave warriors, let's away.
WARWICK. Why, then, though loath, yet must I be content.
WARWICK. Why, therefore Warwick came to seek you out;
WARWICK. Your Grace hath still been fam'd for virtuous,
WARWICK. [To BONA] And, gracious madam, in our king's behalf,
WOLSEY.  [Aside to GARDINER]  Give me your hand: much
WOLSEY.  [Aside]  The late Queen's gentlewoman, a knight's
WOLSEY.  [Aside]  What should this mean?
WOLSEY. All goodness
WOLSEY. And ever may your Highness yoke together,
WOLSEY. And for me,
WOLSEY. Be patient yet.
WOLSEY. Be't so; proceed.
WOLSEY. Cromwell, I did not think to shed a tear
WOLSEY. God bless him!
WOLSEY. Good Lord Chamberlain,
WOLSEY. He tells you rightly.
WOLSEY. Heav'n's peace be with him!
WOLSEY. Heaven forgive me!
WOLSEY. How much, methinks, I could despise this man,
WOLSEY. How! Of me?
WOLSEY. I am glad
WOLSEY. I do profess
WOLSEY. I do profess
WOLSEY. I hope I have. I am able now, methinks,
WOLSEY. I know your Majesty has always lov'd her
WOLSEY. If your Grace
WOLSEY. Is he in person ready?
WOLSEY. Is he ready
WOLSEY. It must be himself then.
WOLSEY. Leave me awhile.                              Exit CROMWELL
WOLSEY. Let me see, then.                    [Comes from his state]
WOLSEY. Look'd he o' th' inside of the paper?
WOLSEY. Madam, this is a mere distraction;
WOLSEY. Madam, you wander from the good we aim at.
WOLSEY. Madam, you wrong the King's love with these fears;
WOLSEY. May it please you, noble madam, to withdraw
WOLSEY. Most gracious sir,
WOLSEY. My Lord Sandys,
WOLSEY. My lord!
WOLSEY. My sovereign, I confess your royal graces,
WOLSEY. Noble lady,
WOLSEY. Now, madam, may his Highness live in freedom,
WOLSEY. Peace to your Highness!
WOLSEY. Please you, sir,
WOLSEY. Please your Highness, note
WOLSEY. Pray hear me.
WOLSEY. Pray tell 'em thus much from me:
WOLSEY. Proud lord, thou liest.
WOLSEY. Say, Lord Chamberlain,
WOLSEY. Sir Thomas Lovell, is the banquet ready
WOLSEY. Sir,
WOLSEY. Sir, you cannot.
WOLSEY. So I have. Farewell
WOLSEY. So farewell to the little good you bear me.
WOLSEY. So much fairer
WOLSEY. Speak on, sir;
WOLSEY. Stand forth, and with bold spirit relate what you,
WOLSEY. Stay:
WOLSEY. Tanta est erga te mentis integritas, regina serenis-sima-
WOLSEY. That's news indeed.
WOLSEY. That's somewhat sudden.
WOLSEY. The Duke of Buckingham's surveyor? Ha!
WOLSEY. The packet, Cromwell,
WOLSEY. There was the weight that pull'd me down.
WOLSEY. There's fresher air, my lord,
WOLSEY. This, and all else
WOLSEY. Till I find more than will or words to do it-
WOLSEY. Well, we shall then know more, and Buckingham
WOLSEY. What say they?
WOLSEY. What should this mean?
WOLSEY. What warlike voice,
WOLSEY. What's that?
WOLSEY. What, amaz'd
WOLSEY. Whilst our commission from Rome is read,
WOLSEY. Why, well;
WOLSEY. Y'are welcome, my fair guests. That noble lady
WOLSEY. Yes, he was.
WOLSEY. Yes, surely.
WOLSEY. You have here, lady,
WOLSEY. Your Grace has given a precedent of wisdom
WOLSEY. Your Grace,
WOLSEY. Your pleasure, madam?
WOLSEY. [Aside to the SECRETARY]  A word with you.
1597
1611
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
A Council table brought in, with chairs and stools, and placed
A chase in the north of England
A field of battle between Towton and Saxton, in Yorkshire
A field of battle near Barnet
A loud alarum. Enter CLIFFORD, wounded
A march. Enter EDWARD, RICHARD, and their power
A park near Middleham Castle in Yorkshire
A plain in Warwickshire
A plain near Mortimer's Cross in Herefordshire
A street in Westminster
ACT I. SCENE 1
ACT I. SCENE 1.
ACT I. SCENE 2.
ACT I. SCENE 3.
ACT I. SCENE 4.
ACT II. SCENE 1
ACT II. SCENE 1.
ACT II. SCENE 2.
ACT II. SCENE 3.
ACT II. SCENE 4.
ACT II. SCENE I.
ACT III. SCENE 1.
ACT III. SCENE I.
ACT III.SCENE 2.
ACT IV. SCENE 1.
ACT IV. SCENE 2.
ACT IV. SCENE I.
ACT V. SCENE 1.
ACT V. SCENE 2.
ACT V. SCENE 3.
ACT V. SCENE 4.
ACT V. SCENE 5.
ACT V. SCENE I.
Alarum and excursions. Enter KING EDWARD, bringing forth WARWICK, wounded
Alarum. Enter KING HENRY alone
Alarum; excursions. Enter WARWICK
Another part of the field
Another part of the field
Another part of the field
Another part of the field
Another part of the field
Before York
Before York
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROH