





Exeunt
Exeunt
[Reads]
Exit LADY
[Drums and
Exit Ghost.
Exit Ghost.
Exit BELARIUS
Exeunt citizens
Exeunt citizens
The cock crows.
[Gives the ring]
Exeunt attendants
Exit an attendant
Spreads his arms.
[Seeing the body]
Exeunt CORIOLANUS,
[Presenting a box]
[Puts on the ring]
LEONATUS POSTHUMUS.'
Exeunt all but CLOTEN
Exeunt all but IMOGEN
[A dead march sounded]
AUFIDIUS stands on him]
Exeunt LUCIUS and LORDS
Exeunt [all but Hamlet].
[Taking off her bracelet]
[Pushes him away from him]
and the people are beat in]
Exeunt CLOTEN and FIRST LORD
Exeunt COMINIUS and MENENIUS
Exeunt VOLUMNIA and VIRGILIA
[CORIOLANUS draws his sword]
[Falls fainting on the body]
[Sound still with the shouts]
Exeunt CORIOLANUS and AUFIDIUS
Exeunt CORIOLANUS and Aufidius
Exeunt CORIOLANUS and MENENIUS
Exeunt GUIDERIUS and ARVIRAGUS
Exeunt Voltemand and Cornelius.
Flourish. Exeunt all but Hamlet.
[He holds her by the hand, silent]
[They all bustle about CORIOLANUS]
Enter an AEDILE
Enter COMINIUS
Enter a LADY
Re-enter citizens
Enter A CITIZEN
Enter A MESSENGER
Enter COMINIUS
Enter a MESSENGER
Enter an AEDILE
Enter an AEDILE
[CYMBELINE and IMOGEN converse apart]
Enter MENENIUS
Enter PISANIO
Enter VOLUMNIA
Re-enter QUEEN
[Sleeps. IACHIMO comes from the trunk]
Enter another MESSENGER
her in his arms
with IMOGEN
Enter Ghost.
Enter IMOGEN
Enter PISANIO
Enter a LADY
Enter a MESSENGER
[They all shout and throw up their caps]
Enter CORIOLANUS
Enter POSTHUMUS
Enter Polonius.
Enter SICINIUS and BRUTUS
Enter a troop of citizens
Enter musicians
Re-enter IMOGEN
Re-enter the third SERVINGMAN
Enter CLOTEN
Enter CORIOLANUS with AUFIDIUS
Enter Ghost again.
Enter IACHIMO
Enter IMOGEN
Enter a second MESSENGER
Re-enter three citizens more
SONG
[In this mutiny the TRIBUNES, the AEDILES,
the commoners being with him
Enter another SERVINGMAN
Enter the LORDS of the city
Enter three or four citizens
Exeunt CORIOLANUS and COMINIUS, with others
Re-enter QUEEN
fall on their knees
Enter CYMBELINE and QUEEN
Enter Horatio and Marcellus.
Enter MENENIUS with the SENATORS
Enter PISANIO
Enter PISANIO
Enter PISANIO and IACHIMO
Enter a MESSENGER
Re-enter GUIDERIUS
The two SERVINGMEN come forward
[A flourish with drums and trumpets. Exeunt]
COMINIUS, MENENIUS, with the other PATRICIANS
Enter VOLUMNIA, VIRGILIA, and MENENIUS
Re-enter CLOTEN
Re-enter PISANIO and LADIES
Re-enter second SERVINGMAN
YOUNG MARCIUS, with attendants
Enter CYMBELINE and LORDS
Re-enter GAOLER
Re-enter the.AEDILE,with the plebeians
[The QUEEN drops the box. PISANIO takes it up]
[Trumpets, hautboys, drums beat, all together]
Re-enter MESSENGER
Re-enter the first SERVINGMAN
SONG
A thing of pity.
Rates and revenges.
Re-enter BELARIUS and ARVIRAGUS
Re-enter PISANIO, with the clothes
trumpets sound, with great shouts of the people]
Home art gone, and ta'en thy wages.
Nor the furious winter's rages;
Thou art past the tyrant's stroke.
To thee the reed is as the oak.
Against thy deity.
And from thy justice fly.
And potent injuries.
As great Sicilius' heir.
Attending nature's law;
Being all to dolours turn'd?
But took me in my throes,
Came crying 'mongst his foes,
Could deem his dignity?
Enter a rabble of plebeians, with the AEDILES
Enter the QUEEN, POSTHUMUS, and IMOGEN
Fell bravely and were slain,
From this earth-vexing smart.
In Britain where was he
Moulded the stuff so fair
No longer exercise
O' th' other's villainy?
Or fruitful object be
Or we poor ghosts will cry
Our parents and us twain,
Re-enter GUIDERIUS with CLOTEN'S head
Slight thing of Italy,
Sweet Imogen?
Take off his miseries.
That thy adulteries
Thou orphans' father art,
Thy spite on mortal flies.
To Cymbeline perform'd.
To be exil'd and thrown
Whose face I never saw?
Why hast thou thus adjourn'd
With honour to maintain.
With needless jealousy,
with wounds, as they died in the wars.
All follow this and come to dust.
And renowned be thy grave!
As chimney-sweepers, come to dust.
Care no more to clothe and eat;
Consign to thee and come to dust.
Enter AUFIDIUS with the second SERVINGMAN
Enter CORNELIUS and LADIES
Golden lads and girls all must,
Re-enter MENENIUS with BRUTUS and SICINIUS
The sceptre, learning, physic, must
Thou thy worldly task hast done,
And to become the geck and scorn
Enter BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, and ARVIRAGUS
Enter CORIOLANUS, marching with drum and colours;
Enter two BRITISH CAPTAINS and soldiers
From Leonati seat and cast
From her his dearest one,
Hath my poor boy done aught but well,
I died whilst in the womb he stay'd
In eye of Imogen, that best
Our fealty and Tenantius' right
Re-enter BRUTUS and SICINIUS, the rabble again
That could stand up his parallel,
That from me was Posthumus ripp'd,
That he deserv'd the praise o' th' world
That, striking in our country's cause,
The graces for his merits due,
Then, Jupiter, thou king of gods,
Thou shouldst have been, and shielded him
To taint his nobler heart and brain
To th' shining synod of the rest
Upon a valiant race thy harsh
Whose father then, as men report
With Mars fall out, with Juno chide,
him over to a gaoler. Exeunt omnes
names of POLYDORE and CADWAL, supposed sons to Belarius
Enter LUCIUS, CAPTAINS, and a SOOTHSAYER
Enter three or four CONSPIRATORS of AUFIDIUS' faction
[The CONSPIRATORS draw and kill CORIOLANUS,who falls.
the two young LEONATI, brothers to POSTHUMUS,
Arise, arise!
Enter CORIOLANUS, MENENIUS and COMINIUS, with others
Enter Horatio, Marcellus, and Bernardo.
Enter a third SERVINGMAN. The first meets him
They circle POSTHUMUS round as he lies sleeping
matron, his WIFE, and mother to POSTHUMUS, with
Enter LUCIUS, IACHIMO, the SOOTHSAYER, and other
Re-enter BELARIUS with the body of CLOTEN
like a warrior; leading in his hand an ancient
And Phoebus 'gins arise,
LEONATUS, father to POSTHUMUS, an old man attired
My lady sweet, arise;
On chalic'd flow'rs that lies;
Solemn music. Enter, as in an apparition, SICILIUS
To ope their golden eyes.
music before them. Then, after other music, follows
Enter, in mourning habits, VIRGILIA, VOLUMNIA, VALERIA,
JUPITER descends-in thunder and lightning, sitting
Re-enter ARVIRAGUS, with IMOGEN as dead, bearing
upon an eagle. He throws a thunderbolt. The GHOSTS
And winking Mary-buds begin
Hark, hark! the lark at heaven's gate sings,
His steeds to water at those springs
Roman prisoners, guarded; POSTHUMUS behind, and IMOGEN
With everything that pretty bin,
heard!
honour
power
private,
which I will add
youth, I blame ye not;
'A slave' without a knock.
'Gainst the Pannonians and Dalmatians,
'His mean'st garment'! Well.                            Exit
'His meanest garment'!
'I would be consul,' says he; 'aged custom
'Justice and your father's wrath, should he take me in his
'My father, not this youth.'
'Ods pittikins! can it be six mile yet?
'Our Britain's harts die flying, not our men.
'That can denote me truly. These indeed seem,
'This must be so.' We pray you throw to earth
'This we receiv'd,' and each in either side
'Thou liest' unto thee with a voice as free
'Tis I that made thy widows: many an heir
'Tis almost night; you shall have better cheer
'Tis fond to wail inevitable strokes,
'Tis he and Cloten; malice and lucre in them
'Tis in my cloak-bag- doublet, hat, hose, all
'Tis mine; and this will witness outwardly,
'Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother,
'Tis not so dear, yet 'tis a life; you coin'd it.
'Tis still a dream, or else such stuff as madmen
'Tis strange he hides him in fresh cups, soft beds,
'Tis strange.
'Tis the ninth hour o' th' morn.
'Tis thought the old man and his sons were angels.
'Tis time must do. Beseech your Majesty,
'Tis true- nay, keep the ring, 'tis true. I am sure
'Tis warm at's heart.
'To th' tender of our present.
'Twas but a bolt of nothing, shot at nothing,
'Twas very Cloten.
'Twas very faintly he said 'Rise'; dismiss'd me
'Tween man and man they weigh not every stamp;
'Twixt amorous and villainous. Being thus quench'd
'Twixt fair and foul?
'Twixt hour and hour?
'Twixt sky and ground. Wilt thou hear more, my lord?
'Twixt two such shes, would chatter this way and
'Twixt you there's difference; but the fall of either
'Two boys, an old man (twice a boy), a lane,
'Twould move me sooner.
'em.
(For so this side of our known world esteem'd him)
(For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death),
(Marcellus and Bernardo) on their watch
(O God! a beast that wants discourse of reason
A Gallian girl at home. He furnaces
A Roman and a British ensign wave
A Roman with a Roman's heart can suffer.
A banish'd traitor.
A better witness back than words, which we,
A brand to th' end o' th' world.
A cause for thy repeal, we shall not send
A cell of ignorance, travelling abed,
A certain stuff, which, being ta'en would cease
A child that guided dotards. To his mistress,
A city full; of tribunes such as you,
A conduct overland to Milford Haven.
A day's work in him. What shalt thou expect
A distaff to a lance, gilded pale looks,
A double blessing is a double grace;
A dram of worth be drawn.
A drop of blood a day and, being aged,
A drug of such damn'd nature. Those she has
A father to me; and thou hast created
A fault against the dead, a fault to nature,
A fault on us, your tribunes, that we labour'd,
A fearful army, led by Caius Marcius
A fever with the absence of her son;
A foe to th' public weal. Obey, I charge thee,
A foolish suitor to a wedded lady
A franklin's huswife.
A glass that feated them; and to the graver
A good construction. I rais'd him, and I pawn'd
A grave. Come, arm him. Boy, he is preferr'd
A headless man? The garments of Posthumus?
A heart of wreak in thee, that wilt revenge
A heart unfortified, a mind impatient,
A hilding for a livery, a squire's cloth,
A lady to the worthiest sir that ever
A law-breaker, a villain. Yield thee, thief.
A leg of Rome shall not return to tell
A lie that it must bear? Well, I will do't;
A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,
A little month, or ere those shoes were old
A little witness my obedience. Look!
A look untender! If't be summer news,
A lustre to it.
A madness, of which her life's in danger. Heavens,
A man already.
A man of their infirmity.
A man worth any woman; overbuys me
A merrier day did never yet greet Rome,
A mile before his tent fall down, and knee
A mole cinque-spotted, like the crimson drops
A most inherent baseness.
A mother and two brothers. But, O scorn,
A mother hourly coining plots, a wooer
A mother less, or granted less, Aufidius?
A mother to the birth of three? Ne'er mother
A narrow lane, an old man, and two boys.
A neat-herd's daughter, and my Leonatus
A noble cunning. You were us'd to load me
A noble life before a long, and wish
A noble servant to them, but he could not
A page so kind, so duteous, diligent,
A pain that only seems to seek out danger
A pair of tribunes that have wrack'd for Rome
A pair of worthier sons.
A pantler- not so eminent!
A place of potency and sway o' th' state,
A precious thing! I had it from the Queen.
A prince's courage. Away, I prithee.
A prison for a debtor that not dares
A private whisper- no, not with such friends
A pudency so rosy, the sweet view on't
A punishment or trial? Yes; no wonder,
A rider like myself, who ne'er wore rowel
A riding suit, no costlier than would fit
A root of ancient envy. If Jupiter
A rout, confusion thick. Forthwith they fly,
A sable silver'd.
A sacrilegious thief, to do't. The temple
A sample to the youngest; to th' more mature
A saucy stranger in his court to mart
A sea and land full. You have pray'd well to-day:
A seat for baseness.
A second night of such sweet shortness which
A shop of all the qualities that man
A sixth, a tenth, letting them thrive again
A sly and constant knave,
A smiling with a sigh, as if the sigh
A stop i' th' chaser, a retire; anon
A storm, or robbery, call it what you will,
A strain of rareness; and I grieve myself
A thing more made of malice than of duty;
A trembling upon Rome, such as was never
A twist of rotten silk; never admitting
A very drudge of nature's, have subdu'd me
A very valiant Briton and a good,
A violet in the youth of primy nature,
A world by itself, and we will nothing pay
A worthy officer i' the war, but insolent,
A year's age on me!
Abhorr'd your person.
About their functions friendly.
Above ten thousand meaner movables
Above the moon. We must be burnt for you.
Absolute madness could so far have rav'd,
Accept my thankfulness.
Accessible is none but Milford way.                   Exeunt
Accommodated by the place, more charming
According to the honour of his sender;
Accuse the Thunderer whose bolt, you know,
Action is eloquence, and the eyes of th' ignorant
Affected greatness got by you, not you;
After long absence, such is yours. Most welcome!
After the inveterate hate he bears you.
After the slander of most stepmothers,
After your way his tale pronounc'd shall bury
After your will, have cross'd the sea, attending
Again with Rome's mechanics. Tell me not
Against a falling fabric. Will you hence,
Against all noble sufferance.
Against my cank'red country with the spleen
Against my lady's kingdom. 'Tis enough
Against the Romans with Cassibelan,
Against the Volsces, for they had so vilely
Against the part I come with; so I'll die
Against the rectorship of judgment?
Against the which a moiety competent
Against us brats with no less confidence
Against yourself. I know you are no truant.
Ah, but some natural notes about her body
Alack, no remedy!- to the greedy touch
Alas, how can we for our country pray,
Albeit he comes on angry purpose now;
All bond and privilege of nature, break!
All but in that. Good wax, thy leave. Blest be
All cause unborn, could never be the native
All corners of the world. Kings, queens, and states,
All curses madded Hecuba gave the Greeks,
All faults that man may name, nay, that hell knows,
All offices of nature should again
All other doubts, by time let them be clear'd:
All parts of his subjection loyally. For Cloten,
All sworn and honourable- they induc'd to steal it!
All that good time will give us. This attempt
All the remain is, welcome.                           Exeunt
All to the Senate House; some news is come
All turn'd to heresy? Away, away,
All will be nought else.
Allayments to their act, and by them gather
Allow their officers, and are content
Almost the sum he pays.
Almost to jelly with the act of fear,
Alone I did it. 'Boy'!
Although the victor, we submit to Caesar
Although they wear their faces to the bent
Always reserv'd my holy duty- what
Am something nearer.
Am that Belarius whom you sometime banish'd.
Ambitions, covetings, change of prides, disdain,
Among th' Italian gentry, and to fight
Among the bands-may drive us to a render
Amongst the rar'st of good ones- sitting sadly
An arm as big as thine, a heart as big?
An earthly paragon! Behold divineness
An eminent monsieur that, it seems, much loves
An enemy to my son.- How now, Pisanio!
An evident calamity, though we had
An honest one, I warrant, who deserv'd
An suffer'd me by th' voice of slaves to be
An understanding simple and unschool'd;
And Britons strut with courage.
And Censorinus, nobly named so,
And Cydnus swell'd above the banks, or for
And I am sick at heart.
And I am something curious, being strange,
And I am struck with sorrow. Take him up.
And I not have it, 'twere a paper lost,
And I shall here abide the hourly shot
And I will kill thee if thou dost deny
And I with them the third night kept the watch;
And I'll renew me in his fall. But, hark!
And a demand who is't shall die, I'd say
And all the other by-dependences,
And am right glad he is not standing here
And am right sorry that I must report ye
And am so near the lack of charity
And art mine own. I know not why, wherefore
And ask of Cymbeline what boon thou wilt,
And at the sound it shrunk in haste away
And be false with them.
And be her sense but as a monument,
And bear him to the rock.
And bear the palm for having bravely shed
And beat the messenger who bids beware
And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all,
And bless the good remainders of the court!
And blood of your begetting.
And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon.
And brings the dire occasion in his arms
And burst of speaking, were as his. I am absolute
And bury all which yet distinctly ranges
And but she spoke it dying, I would not
And but the backs of Britons seen, an flying,
And by a stranger! No, he hath enjoy'd her.
And by my body's action teach my mind
And cancel these cold bonds. O Imogen!
And cannot live but to thy shame, unless
And cannot lose your way.
And cannot now accept. To grace him only,
And carriage of the article design'd,
And conquer'd it, Cassibelan, thine uncle,
And convoy is assistant, do not sleep,
And cook to honest creatures. But 'tis not so;
And cordial to me, have I not found it
And cowardly nobles, gave way unto your clusters,
And cry myself awake? That's false to's bed,
And deal with others better.
And did avoid a puttock.
And die among our neighbours. Nay, behold's!
And do not play in wench-like words with that
And durst not once peep out.
And ears so cloy'd importantly as now,
And even the like precurse of fierce events,
And every day do honour to her grave.
And every day that comes comes comes to
And felt them knowingly- the art o' th' court,
And find not her whom thou pursuest. Flow, flow,
And fit you to your manhood. May the gods
And follow to thine answer.
And for I am richer than to hang by th' walls
And for Rome's good. I'll tell thee what- yet go!
And foreign mart for implements of war;
And gentlemen of Italy, most willing spirits,
And greets your Highness dearly.         [Presents a letter]
And had no help of anger; they were parted
And had no welcomes home; but he returns
And had, besides this gentleman in question,
And hale him up and down; all swearing if
And hangs on Dian's temple- dear Valeria!
And happier much by his affliction made.
And harsh in sound to thine.
And hath as oft a sland'rous epitaph
And he her dieter.
And he's at some hard point. Speak, man; thy tongue
And hear him mock the Frenchman. But heavens know
And help the joy.                                     Exeunt
And here remain with your uncertainty!
And here the bracelet of the truest princess
And his old hate unto you; besides, forget not
And his succession granted Rome a tribute,
And hum at good Cominius much unhearts me.
And if I do not by thy hand, thou art
And if thou canst awake by four o' th' clock,
And in the morn and liquid dew of youth
And in the power of us the tribunes, we,
And in the temple of great Jupiter
And in's spring became a harvest, liv'd in court-
And interjoin their issues. So with me:
And is Aufidius with him? You are they
And keep their impious turbans on without
And keep you in the rear of your affection,
And knew no other kin.
And leave eighteen. Alas, poor princess,
And leaving so his service, follow you,
And left me bare to weather.
And left this head on. How should this be? Pisanio?
And lend my best attention. What's thy name?
And let it be confiscate all, so soon
And let our crooked smokes climb to their nostrils
And let the stinking elder, grief, untwine
And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark.
And let us hear Bernardo speak of this.
And let us once again assail your ears,
And let us, Polydore, though now our voices
And like the tyrannous breathing of the north
And lose advantage, which doth ever cool
And lose your voice. What wouldst thou beg, Laertes,
And make him stoop to th' vale. 'Tis wonder
And make him with our pikes and partisans
And make me blest to obey. I am brought hither
And make my misery serve thy turn. So use it
And make them dread it, to the doer's thrift.
And make triumphant fires; strew flowers before them.
And make your channel his? If he have power,
And manhood is call'd foolery when it stands
And meet the time as it seeks us. We fear not
And men in dangerous bonds pray not alike;
And mine to boot, be darted on thee! Thou,
And more a friend than e'er an enemy;
And mountainous error be too highly heap'd
And mourn you for him. Let him be regarded
And my pretext to strike at him admits
And never false. Soft, ho! what trunk is here
And not a hair upon a soldier's head
And not dispraising whom we prais'd- therein
And not o' th' court of Britain.
And not our streets with war!
And not protract with admiration what
And now 'tis up again. It must be married
And now no soil nor cautel doth besmirch
And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?
And occupations perish!
And of his friends there, it is lots to blanks
And often to our comfort shall we find
And on it said a century of prayers,
And on the gates of Lud's Town set your heads.
And our return, to excuse. But first, how get hence.
And our vain blows malicious mockery.
And pass'd him unelected.
And pawn mine honour for their safety. Since
And pay you for your voices. 'Tis no matter;
And pen her up.
And perish constant fools. Who is't can blame him?
And power i' th' truth o' th' cause.
And power, unto itself most commendable,
And praise myself for charity.                          Exit
And pray'd me oft forbearance; did it with
And presently, when you have drawn your number,
And prologue to the omen coming on,
And prove it in thy feeling. Heaven mend all!
And put us to our answer.
And questioned'st every sail; if he should write,
And quietness of the people, which before
And rather father thee than master thee.
And recks not his own rede.
And ring is yours. If not, the foul opinion
And sack great Rome with Romans.
And sauc'd our broths as Juno had been sick,
And saving those that eye thee!
And say ''Tis true,' I'd not believe them more
And scarce can spare them.
And scarr'd the moon with splinters; here I clip
And sear up my embracements from a next
And set them on Lud's Town.
And she alone were cold; whereat I, wretch,
And she, like harmless lightning, throws her eye
And show no sign of fear.
And shows good husbandry for the Volscian state,
And sing our bondage freely.
And smoke the temple with our sacrifices.
And so I am awake. Poor wretches, that depend
And so I hope he came by't. Back my ring.
And so he thinks, and is no less apparent
And so shall starve with feeding. Come, let's go.
And so would do, were he more angry at it.
And so, away; no farther with your din
And spare no blood beside.
And spurn me back; but if it he not so,
And state of bodies would bewray what life
And still to nose th' offence.
And straight disclaim their tongues? What are your offices?
And strokes death to her.
And such a one as he, who puts his 'shall,'
And such a welcome as I'd give to him
And take him from our presence.
And take our friendly senators by th' hands,
And take your ring again; 'tis not yet won.
And tell the fishes he's the Queen's son, Cloten.
And temp'rately proceed to what you would
And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands
And that most venerable man which I
And that she hath all courtly parts more exquisite
And that the legions now in Gallia are
And that the spoil got on the Antiates
And that was all?
And that will well confirm it.
And the King's rouse the heaven shall bruit again,
And the most noble mother of the world
And the nobility of Rome are his;
And the remembrancer of her to hold
And then I'll set upon him.
And then I'll speak a little.
And then a mind put in't, either our brags
And then she's yours.
And then, they say, no spirit dare stir abroad,
And therefore banish'd- is a creature such
And therefore law shall scorn him further trial
And therefore must his choice be circumscrib'd
And therein show'd fike enemies.
And therein you are senseless.
And these few precepts in thy memory
And they in France of the best rank and station
And think they are my sons, are none of mine;
And this brave fellow too- we are the grains:
And this shall seem, as partly 'tis, their own,
And this you might have heard of here, by me
And though he came our enemy, remember
And though it be allowed in meaner parties-
And though you took his life, as being our foe,
And three examples of the like hath been
And throw their power i' th' dust.
And throw't against the wind. To th' market-place!
And thus I set my foot on's neck'; even then
And thus far having stretch'd it- here be with them-
And thy best graces spend it at thy will!
And to the Roman empire, promising
And towards himself, his goodness forespent on us,
And treasure of my loins. Then if I would
And tried his inclination; from him pluck'd
And trouble not the peace.
And truly yielded you. You're very welcome.           Exeunt
And vanish'd from our sight.
And venomous to thine eyes. My sometime General,
And vent it for a mock'ry? Here is one:
And vows revenge as spacious as between
And wak'd half dead with nothing. Worthy Marcius,
And we beseech you, bend you to remain
And we did think it writ down in our duty
And we of thee; so, if the time thrust forth
And we their hands.
And we will fear no poison, which attends
And what is left, to lose it by his country
And what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio?
And whatsoever else shall hap to-night,
And when a soldier was the theme, my name
And when came you to serve our Roman captive?
And when they hear me say 'It shall be so
And whiter than the sheets! That I might touch!
And why such daily cast of brazen cannon
And will continue fast to your affection,
And will no doubt be found.
And will not let belief take hold of him
And will not trust one of her malice with
And winds of all the comers kiss'd your sails,
And with his charity slain.
And with his hat, thus waving it in scorn,
And with mine eyes I'll drink the words you send,
And with no less nobility of love
And with our fair entreaties haste them on.           Exeunt
And with the deepest malice of the war
And with what imitation you can borrow
And witness of the malice and displeasure
And worms will not come to thee.
And would have sent it. Another word, Menenius,
And would so, had it been a carbuncle
And yet I know thou wilt.
And yet are steep'd in favours; so am I,
And yet died too! I, in mine own woe charm'd,
And yet enrich'd it too. She gave it me, and said
And yet of moment too, for it concerns
And yet to charge thy sulphur with a bolt
And you are dark'ned in this action, sir,
And you are stay'd for. There- my blessing with thee!
And you may then revolve what tales I have told you
And you shall find me, wretched man, a thing
And you will rather show our general louts
And your three motives to the battle, with
And, being angry, does forget that ever
And, by my troth, you have cause. You'll sup with me?
And, doubling that, most holy. Your means abroad-
And, on a safer judgment, all revoke
And, sir, it is no little thing to make
And, sister, as the winds give benefit
And, to be brief, my practice so prevail'd
Anon do meet the Senate.
Another stain, as big as hell can hold,
Answer'd my steps too loud.
Answering the letter of the oracle,
Appear not like a guest.
Appear unkinglike.
Appear'd to me, with other spritely shows
Appears before them and with solemn march
Are arch'd so high that giants may jet through
Are bound to pray for you both.
Are ent'red in the Roman territories,
Are landed on your coast, with a supply
Are master of the feast. Cadwal and I
Are men more order'd than when Julius Caesar
Are mock'd for valiant ignorance,
Are most select and generous, chief in that.
Are now each one the slaughterman of twenty.
Are partners in the business.
Are servanted to others. Though I owe
Are sometimes, like our judgments, blind. Good faith,
Are still together, who twin, as 'twere, in love,
Are strewings fit'st for graves. Upon their faces.
Are suitors to you.
Are they not but in Britain? I' th' world's volume
Are we come hither; since that thy sight, which should
Are we not brothers?
Arise my knights o' th' battle; I create you
Arm me, audacity, from head to foot!
Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pe,
Art thou a fedary for this act, and look'st
Art thou certain this is true? Is't most certain?
As 'tis no better reckon'd but of those
As 'tis to laugh at 'em. My mother, you wot well
As I can of those mysteries which heaven
As I do know the consul's worthiness,
As I do love my father.
As I do pray the gods.
As I had made my meal, and parted
As I have given out him. My sons, I must
As I have receiv'd it.
As I have such a heart that both mine ears
As I my poor self did exchange for you,
As I wear mine are titles but of scorn.
As I would serve a rat.'
As Neptune's park, ribb'd and pal'd in
As a wren's eye, fear'd gods, a part of it!
As any ear can hear. Come, let's not weep.
As any the most vulgar thing to sense,
As benefits to thee; for I will fight
As best thou art experienc'd, since thou know'st
As cause had call'd you up, have held him to;
As chaste as unsunn'd snow. O, all the devils!
As cheap as lies, he sold the blood and labour
As does a Britain peasant. So I'll fight
As draw his sword; yet he hath left undone
As easily 'gainst our rocks; for joy whereof
As enemy to the people and his country.
As ever in ambitious strength I did
As far as doth the Capitol exceed
As fearful as a siege.
As for my country I have shed my blood,
As good as promise.
As good as we?
As great as is thy master; greater, for
As harbingers preceding still the fates
As hard to leave as keep, whose top to climb
As he began, and not unknit himself
As he controll'd the war; but one of these-
As he could make me with his eye, or care
As he hath follow'd you, with all despite;
As he hath spices of them all- not all,
As he in his particular act and place
As he was born. The King he takes the babe
As hotly and as nobly with thy love
As if Olympus to a molehill should
As if a man were author of himself
As if he were his officer. Desperation
As if he were of note. Bring him to th' King.
As if increase of appetite had grown
As if it had been sow'd. Yet still it's strange
As if you were a god, to punish; not
As in a Romish stew, and to expound
As is the osprey to the fish, who takes it
As it doth me- a nobler sir ne'er liv'd
As it doth well appear unto our state,
As it is like him, might break out and swear
As little as a crow, or less, ere left
As long a term as yet we have to live,
As most abated captives to some nation
As much as in him lies- from time to time
As my two brothers, happy! but most miserable
As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
As of a father; for let the world take note
As offer'd mercy is. What was the last
As once to our mother; use like note and words,
As poisonous of your honour. No, our suit
As poisonous-tongu'd as handed- hath prevail'd
As prouder livers do.
As quarrelous as the weasel. Nay, you must
As record of fair act; nay, many times,
As reek o' th' rotten fens, whose loves I prize
As sense cannot untie. Be what it is,
As shall be prov'd upon you.
As slippery as the Gordian knot was hard!
As soldiers can. Be cheerful; wipe thine eyes.
As stars with trains of fire, and dews of blood,
As strongly as the conscience does within,
As the dead carcasses of unburied men
As the most noble corse that ever herald
As the recomforted through th' gates. Why, hark you!
As then your force did. Take that life, beseech you,
As therefore kept to do so.
As these poor pickaxes can dig; and when
As those should do that had deserv'd his hate,
As thou hast power and person.
As thou'lt desire; and then myself, I chiefly,
As traitors do.
As truly as he moves.
As war were hoodwink'd.
As watchman to my heart. But, good my brother,
As we do air, fast as 'twas minist'red,
As well descended as thyself, and hath
As well might poison poison! Be reveng'd;
As when his god is pleas'd.
As when thou grew'st thyself.
As with a man by his own alms empoison'd,
As words to little purpose.
As would take in some virtue. O my master!
As you did mean indeed to be our brother;
As you intended well.
As you threw caps up will he tumble down,
As you were fore-advis'd, had touch'd his spirit
As you were lesson'd- when he had no power
As zephyrs blowing below the violet,
As, to seek through the regions of the earth
Assist.               Exeunt, bearing the body of CORIOLANUS
Associated with Aufidius, rages
Assum'd this age; indeed a banish'd man;
Assured bondage?'
At a few drops of women's rheum, which are
At difference in thee. Out of that I'll work
At fools I laugh, not fear them.
At his house this night.
At least, the whisper goes so. Our last king,
At point to sink for food. But what is this?
At the next word. No more of 'worthy lord'!
At the sixth hour of morn, at noon, at midnight,
At three and two years old, I stole these babes,
Attach thee as a traitorous innovator,
Attend the Queen and us; we shall have need
Attend us through the city.
Attended by my men. I will make bold
Aufidius, though I cannot make true wars,
Augustus lives to think on't; and so much
Awake the god of day; and at his warning,
Away, my disposition, and possess me
Ay, and singular in his art, hath done you both
Base and illustrious as the smoky light
Be as ourself in Denmark. Madam, come.
Be call'd Posthumus Leonatus, and
Be call'd your vanquisher.
Be cross'd with slowness! Labour be his meed!           Exit
Be curses to yourselves? You should have said
Be every man himself?
Be given to your remembrance; the description
Be held by you denials. Do not bid me
Be henceforth treacherous! Damn'd Pisanio
Be muster'd; bid the captains look to't. Now, sir,
Be not as common fools; if you are not,
Be not with mortal accidents opprest:
Be not, as is our fangled world, a garment
Be pale. I beg but leave to air this jewel. See!
Be rein'd again to temperance; then he speaks
Be sprightly, for you fall 'mongst friends.
Be stomachers to my heart. Thus may poor fools
Be such a gosling to obey instinct, but stand
Be theme and hearing ever- was in this Britain,
Be those the garments?
Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar:
Be thus to them.
Be touch'd at very heart.
Be us'd more thankfully. In himself, 'tis much;
Be villainy less than 'twas! O Imogen!
Be wary then; best safety lies in fear.
Be wisely definite; nor i' th' appetite;
Be you then as the people's officer.
Bear him to th' rock Tarpeian, and from thence
Bear to my closet. Fare thee well, Pisanio;
Bear't that th' opposed may beware of thee.
Bears a command in't; though thy tackle's torn,
Bears all down with her brain; and this her son
Beat thou the drum, that it speak mournfully;
Beating your officers, cursing yourselves,
Becomes a warlike people, whom we reckon
Becomes not Rome; nor has Coriolanus
Becomes thee well enough.
Been all the worth of's car. Away to Britain
Been less, and so more equal ballasting
Been thus encount'red. A figure like your father,
Before I enter'd here I call'd, and thought
Before he should thus stoop to th' herd, but that
Before my perfect honour, swore to Cymbeline
Before the Roman, nor to us hath tender'd
Before the tag return? whose rage doth rend
Before you find it other. All the regions
Before you had worn it out.
Before you punish him, where he heard this,
Beginning nor supplyment.
Behind our rock, and let it to the sea
Behold their quarter'd fires, have both their eyes
Behold, these are the tribunes of the people,
Behoves me keep at utterance. I am perfect
Being Leo-natus, doth import so much.
Being banish'd for't, he came unto my hearth,
Being once gangren'd, is not then respected
Being so near the truth as I will make them,
Being, as it is, much spoke of.
Believe false teachers; though those that are betray'd
Believe her lips in opening it. Proceed.
Believe't not lightly- though I go alone,
Below the beam of sight; yet will I still
Besides, the seeing these effects will be
Best draw my sword; and if mine enemy
Bestride my threshold. Why, thou Mars, I tell the
Better it is to die, better to starve,
Better to cease to be. Pray, sir, to th' army.
Between the child and parent.                       [Kneels]
Betwixt a father by thy step-dame govern'd,
Betwixt two charming words, comes in my father,
Beyond self-explication. Put thyself
Beyond the trick of others. This Polydore,
Bid me farewell, and smile. I pray you come.
Bid them repair to th' market-place, where I,
Big of this gentleman, our theme, deceas'd
Bitter to me as death; your life, good master,
Black as the ink that's on thee! Senseless bauble,
Blush that the world goes well; who rather had,
Both fill'd and running- ravening first the lamb,
Both noisome and infectious.
Bound with an oath to yield to his conditions;
Bows toward her and would under-peep her lids
Boys, bid him welcome.
Boys, we'll go dress our hunt. Fair youth, come in.
Break ope the locks o' th' Senate and bring in
Break we our watch up; and by my advice
Breaking his oath and resolution like
Breathe not where princes are.
Breeds him and makes him of his bed-chamber,
Bringing me here to kill me.
Britain be fortunate and flourish in peace and plenty.'
Britons must take. For me, my ransom's death;
Brutus! Coriolanus! Citizens!
But I am truest speaker! You call'd me brother,
But I beseech your Grace, without offence-
But I have that within which passeth show-
But I will prove that two on's are as good
But Imogen is your own. Do your best wills,
But answer made it none. Yet once methought
But as a discontented friend, grief-shot
But beggary and poor looks.
But being so allow'd. To apprehend thus
But brats and beggary- in self-figur'd knot,
But break my heart, for I must hold my tongue!
But by example- O, a sin in war
But by self-danger, you should tread a course
But by your voices will not so permit me;
But clay and clay differs in dignity,
But do not dull thy palm with entertainment
But end it by some means for Imogen.
But even the very middle of my heart
But even then the morning cock crew loud,
But failing of her end by his strange absence,
But fear the sword, like me, he'll scarcely look on't.
But for the end it works to. Come, our stomachs
But for your son- believe it, O, believe it!-
But had his titles by Tenantius, whom
But he does buy my injuries, to be friends;
But if I were as wise as honest, then
But in a fainter kind- O, not like me,
But keep it till you woo another wife,
But keep that count'nance still. My husband's hand?
But kiss; one kiss! Rubies unparagon'd,
But kneels and holds up hands for fellowship,
But let me hear from you.
But look, the morn, in russet mantle clad,
But must be look'd to speedily and strongly.
But must be- will's free hours languish for
But no trace of him.
But none of 'em can be found. Stand! who's there?
But not approach'd.
But not away to-morrow!
But not express'd in fancy; rich, not gaudy;
But not so citizen a wanton as
But now my heavy conscience sinks my knee,
But now thou seem'st a coward.
But now, my cousin Hamlet, and my son-
But once a day, it would unclog my heart
But owe thy pride thyself.
But soft! behold! Lo, where it comes again!
But suck them up to th' top-mast. A kind of conquest
But tell the traitor in the highest degree
But that he swore to take, our lives? The law
But that her flight prevented it, she had
But that it eats our victuals, I should think
But that my master is abus'd. Some villain,
But that my master rather play'd than fought,
But that my resolution helps me. Milford,
But that of coward hares, hot goats, and venison!
But that the heavens fought. The King himself
But that there is this jewel in the world
But that two villains, whose false oaths prevail'd
But that's no fault of his. We must receive him
But the bottom of the news is, our general is cut i' th' middle
But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell,
But the worst of me. So I leave you, sir,
But think her bond of chastity quite crack'd,
But time hath nothing blurr'd those lines of favour
But to be rough, unswayable, and free.
But to be still hot summer's tanlings and
But to confirm my curses. Could I meet 'em
But to look back in frown. Stand, stand!' These three,
But to recover of us, by strong hand
But two months dead! Nay, not so much, not two.
But was a petty servant to the state,
But we will drink together; and you shall bear
But what he look'd for should oppose and she
But what is like me formerly.
But what is your affair in Elsinore?
But what o' that? Go, you that banish'd him:
But what thou art besides, thou wert too base
But what, in faith, make you from Wittenberg?
But when extremities speak. I have heard you say
But when to my good lord I prove untrue
But with a grain a day, I would not buy
But with his friends. The commonwealth doth stand,
But with his last attempt he wip'd it out,
But with such words that are but roted in
But with that surname- a good memory
But worn a bait for ladies.
But yet a brain that leads my use of anger
But yield me to the veriest hind that shall
But you must know, your father lost a father;
But you shall do no harm.
But, as I say, such as become a soldier
But, in the gross and scope of my opinion,
But, see, thy brother.
But, soft! no bedfellow. O gods and goddesses!
But, though slow, deadly?
But, worthy lords, have you with heed perused
By Jove, 'twould be my mind!
By a sharp torture.
By being so verbal; and learn now, for all,
By being worse than they. I am Posthumus,
By both your wills.
By calmness or by absence; all's in anger.
By gentlemen at hand.
By her election may be truly read
By hers and mine adultery. He, true knight,
By history, report, or his own proof,
By inches waste you. In which time she purpos'd,
By laboursome petition, and at last
By lack of stooping-
By length'ning my return. From Gallia
By many an ounce- he dropt it for his country;
By med'cine'life may be prolong'd, yet death
By mingling them with us, the honour'd number,
By sovereignty of nature. First he was
By tasting of our wrath? How of descent
By th' sure physician death, who is the key
By th' very truth of it, I care not for you,
By thee to us; and he shall be interr'd
By their oppress'd and fear-surprised eyes,
By thine own tongue thou art condemn'd, and must
By this rude place we live in. Well encounter'd!
By thy revolt, O husband, shall be thought
By watching, weeping, tendance, kissing, to
By what it fed on; and yet, within a month-
By whom I grant she lives. 'Tis now the time
By wounding his belief in her renown
By your leave.                                      [Knocks]
By your own true affections; and that your minds,
CYMBELINE, and exeunt. Then re-enter LUCIUS and IACHIMO,
Caesar made here; but made not here his brag
Caesar, that hath moe kings his servants than
Caius Marcius.
Call all your tribes together, praise the gods,
Call forth your soothsayer. As I slept, methought
Call me their traitor! Thou injurious tribune!
Call our cares fears; which will in time
Can her contempt be answer'd?
Can it not do and undo? I will make
Can justly boast of. What's your lordship's pleasure?
Can make good use of either. She being down,
Can my sides hold, to think that man- who knows
Can snore upon the flint, when resty sloth
Can thereto frame his spirit.
Can tickle where she wounds! My dearest husband,
Can trip me if I err, who with wet cheeks
Can we set eye on, but in an safe reason
Cannot amend me; society is no comfort
Cannot be questioned.
Cannot conclude but by the yea and no
Cannot deny; he hath done no Briton harm
Cannot take two from twenty, for his heart,
Captains, Soldiers, Messengers, and Attendants
Carry his honours even. Whether 'twas pride,
Carve for himself, for on his choice depends
Cast your election on him.
Cats that can judge as fitly of his worth
Cave here, hunt here, are outlaws, and in time
Charms this report out.
Chaste Dian bathing. Never saw I figures
Chickens, the way which they stoop'd eagles; slaves,
Chide me no more. I'll mountebank their loves,
Civility not seen from other, valour
Cleave in the midst and perish.
Cloten, the son o' th' Queen. I fear some ambush.
Cog their hearts from them, and come home belov'd
Coin words till their decay against those measles
Colleagued with this dream of his advantage,
Come as the gods foresay it. Howsoe'er,
Come hither. Ah, you precious pander! Villain,
Come on, away. Apart upon our knees.
Come on, tune. If you can penetrate her with your fingering, so.
Come to the matter.
Come, enter with us. Ladies, you deserve
Come, go with us, speak fair; you may salve so,
Come, let's away. When, Caius, Rome is thine,
Come, my sweet wife, my dearest mother, and
Come, try upon yourselves what you have seen me.
Come.                                                 Exeunt
Comes armed through our watch, so like the King
Comes from my lord with letters.
Command into obedience; fear and niceness-
Commanded of me these most poisonous compounds
Commands me name myself.
Commend me to my wife. I'll return consul,
Companions to our person, and will fit you
Comparative for your virtues to be styl'd
Confusion's near; I cannot speak. You tribunes
Conspir'd with that irregulous devil, Cloten,
Constrains them weep and shake with fear and sorrow,
Contagious blastments are most imminent.
Contemn with mows the other; nor i' th' judgment,
Contend against thy valour. Know thou first,
Continu'd so until we thought he died.
Continue where he is. To shift his being
Coriolanus' exile. Now he's coming,
Coriolanus, in Corioli?
Corrupters of my faith! you shall no more
Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy,
Cotus!                                                  Exit
Could be so rarely and exactly wrought,
Could best express how slow his soul sail'd on,
Could have knock'd out his brains, for he had none;
Could he say less?
Could make him the receiver of; which he took,
Could never go so slow. I have heard of riding wagers
Could not find death where I did hear him groan,
Could not have made this peace.                       Exeunt
Could not out-peer these twain. Pardon me, gods!
Could put into them. My breeding was, sir, as
Counsel o' th' war; but at his nurse's tears
Country call'd his! and you his mistress, only
Cowards father cowards and base things sire base.
Creatures may be alike; were't he, I am sure
Cried 'O!' and mounted; found no opposition
Crush him together rather than unfold
Crying confusion.
Damn'd in the first beginners!- gan to look
Dar'd to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet
Dare come about him.
Dark as your fortune is, and but disguise
Dead to my husband?
Dear lady daughter, peace!- Sweet sovereign,
Death on the wheel or at wild horses' heels;
Deliver them this paper' having read it,
Deliver with more openness your answers
Deny't again.
Depending on their brands.
Deserve such pity of him as the wolf
Deserved this so dishonour'd rub, laid falsely
Deserves th' extremest death.
Deserves thy trust, and thy most perfect goodness
Deserves your pity?
Desir'd more than constrain'd. To satisfy,
Desire my man's abode where I did leave him.
Desires your Highness' company.
Despairing, died.
Destroy what lies before 'em.
Destroy'd his country, and his name remains
Detest them, curse them. Yet 'tis greater skill
Diana's rangers false themselves, yield up
Did call my father was I know not where
Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.
Did follow to his um.
Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands
Did make my way long forth.
Did not deserve corn gratis. Being i' th' war,
Did put the yoke upon's; which to shake of
Did scandal many a holy tear, took pity
Did see man die! scarce ever look'd on blood
Did shake down mellow fruit. You have made fair work!
Did slay this Fortinbras; who, by a seal'd compact,
Did softly press the rushes ere he waken'd
Did sometimes march? By heaven I charge thee speak!
Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets;
Did you but know the city's usuries,
Didst undertake it? Why hast thou abus'd
Die of this folly.                          Exit, with LORDS
Died with their swords in hand; for which their father,
Direct you to the best!
Disasters in the sun; and the moist star
Discourse is heavy, fasting; when we have supp'd,
Discover where thy mistress is at once,
Discover you abroad?
Disdaining me and throwing favours on
Dishonestly afflicted, but yet honest.
Dismiss my soldiers, or capitulate
Displace our heads where- thank the gods!- they grow,
Dissentious numbers pest'ring streets than see
Distinction should be rich in. Where? how liv'd you?
Distinguish him from others, he did keep
Divide themselves between you!
Do I impart toward you. For your intent
Do as I bid thee. There's no more to say;
Do feel the treason sharply, yet the traitor
Do not as some ungracious pastors do,
Do not for ever with thy vailed lids
Do smilingly revolt, and who resists
Do their due functions. Have you ta'en of it?
Do thou thy master's bidding; when thou seest him,
Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it,
Doctor, your service for this time is ended;
Does not approve me further, who was wont
Does not divide the Sunday from the week.
Does of the shepherds; for his best friends, if they
Does reason our petition with more strength
Does yet depend.
Done many things, some less, some more. Your voices?
Dost seem so ignorant, we'll enforce it from thee
Doth ill deserve by doing well; what's worse-
Doth make the night joint-labourer with the day?
Doth miracle itself, lov'd before me.-
Doth more than counterpoise a full third part
Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat
Down, ladies; let us shame him with our knees.
Drawn on with torture.
Drawn tuns of blood out of thy country's breast,
Draws us a profit from all things we see,
Dreamt of encounters 'twixt thyself and me-
Droop not; adieu. Farewell, my wife, my mother.
During their use, and slay us after.
Dutch Gentleman, a Spanish Gentleman, Musicians, Officers,
Each object with a joy; the counterchange
Each way to better yours.
Each word thou hast spoke hath weeded from my heart
Egregious murderer, thief, anything
Either are past remedies, or, timely knowing,
Either his gracious promise, which you might,
Encounter such revolt.
Endows a man but he.
Endue you with the people's voice. Remains
Endure our law. Thou'rt dead.
Enforce him with his envy to the people,
Enforce the present execution
Envied against the people, seeking means
Ere I arise I will prefer my sons;
Ere bloody hands were wash'd, with such a peace.      Exeunt
Ere clean it o'erthrow nature, makes it valiant.
Ere he express himself or move the people
Ere now denied the asker, and now again,
Ere such another Julius. Britain is
Ere they lack'd power to cross you.
Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears
Ere you depart, and thanks to stay and eat it.
Ev'n from this instant, banish him our city,
Even as she speaks, why, their hearts were yours;
Even by your own.
Even in theirs and in the commons' ears,
Even out of your report. But pray you tell me,
Even to Augustus' throne.
Even to a full disgrace. Best of my flesh,
Even to my person, than I thought he would
Even to the note o' th' King, or I'll fall in them.
Even to the point of envy, if 'twere made
Even when the navel of the state was touch'd,
Even with the same austerity and garb
Ever to conquer, and to have his worth
Every good servant does not all commands;
Evil-ey'd unto you. You're my prisoner, but
Except she bend her humour, shall be assur'd
Excited me to treason. Their dear loss,
Experience, O, thou disprov'st report!
Exposing it- but, O, the harder heart!
Express impatience, lest you stir up mine.
Extorted treasure in the womb of earth
Fairness which strikes the eye-
Fall on their heads like dew! for they are worthy
False to my nature? Rather say I play
Famous in Caesar's praises no whit less
Fan you into despair! Have the power still
Farewell, and let your haste commend your duty.
Fast foe to th' plebeii, your voices might
Fear it, Ophelia, fear it, my dear sister,
Fear not; 'tis empty of all things but grief;
Fie on't! ah, fie! 'Tis an unweeded garden
Fights dragon-like, and does achieve as soon
Fillip the stars; then let the mutinous winds
Find out the prettiest daisied plot we can,
Find such another master.
Finds the down pillow hard. Now, peace be here,
First pay me for the nursing of thy sons,
Fitting my bounty and thy state, I'll give it;
Five times redeem'd from death. I do not know
Fixing it only here; should I, damn'd then,
Flutter'd your Volscians in Corioli.
Fold down the leaf where I have left. To bed.
Follow thine enemy in a fiery gulf
Follow'd my banishment, and this twenty years
For I dare so far free him- made him fear'd,
For I have ever verified my friends-
For Imogen's dear life take mine; and though
For Rome, towards Marcius.
For barbarous and unnatural revolts
For bearers of this greeting to old Norway,
For beauty that made barren the swell'd boast
For being now a favourer to the Briton,
For being preferr'd so well.
For certain drops of salt, your city Rome-
For death, for fine, or banishment, then let them,
For even to vice
For food and diet, to some enterprise
For friends kill friends, and the disorder's such
For further satisfying, under her breast-
For fury not to be resisted. Thus defied,
For he himself is subject to his birth.
For his return.                               [Solemn music]
For idiots in this case of favour would
For if he'll do as he is made to do,
For it doth physic love- of his content,
For it is as the air, invulnerable,
For loan oft loses both itself and friend,
For making up this peace!' Thou know'st, great son,
For many years thought dead, are now reviv'd,
For mercy to his country. Therefore let's hence,
For mine own part unfold a dangerous speech,
For mine's beyond beyond!-say, and speak thick-
For my being absent?- whereunto I never
For my confections? Having thus far proceeded-
For my peculiar care. This one thing only
For nature crescent does not grow alone
For nature doth abhor to make his bed
For no less spoil than glory-
For notes of sorrow out of tune are worse
For one his like, there would be something failing
For one poor grain or two, to leave unburnt
For purchasing but trouble. The thanks I give
For so I thought I was a cave-keeper,
For such an end thou seek'st, as base as strange.
For such and so they are- these twenty years
For th' ill which doth control't.
For that which I did then. Beaten for loyalty
For that, 'Forgive our Romans.' O, a kiss
For the apparel oft proclaims the man,
For the inheritance of their loves and safeguard
For the most worthiest fit! Give me your pardon.
For the mutable, rank-scented meiny, let them
For the whole state, I would put mine armour on,
For thee, O Imogen, even for whom my life
For they are actions that a man might play;
For they do prank them in authority,
For they have pardons, being ask'd, as free
For they shall taste our comfort.
For this immediate levy, he commands
For three performers are the file when all
For torturers ingenious. It is I
For truth to o'erpeer. Rather than fool it so,
For we are peremptory to dispatch
For we do fear the law? What company
For we have nothing else to ask but that
For wearing our own noses.
For what before it was.
For what we know must be, and is as common
For which my sinews shall be stretch'd upon him.
For which the people stir; if you will pass
For which you are a traitor to the people.
For whom he now is banish'd- her own price
For whom my heart drops blood and my false spirits
For wrying but a little! O Pisanio!
For you a mortal mineral, which, being took,
For you must be our huswife.
For you the city, thus I turn my back;
For's private friends; his answer to me was,
Forbear sharp speeches to her; she's a lady
Fore your own eyes and ears?
Fore-thinking this, I have already fit-
Forget that rarest treasure of your cheek,
Forgive my tyranny; but do not say,
Form of the thing, each word made true and good,
Fortune brings in some boats that are not steer'd.      Exit
Forward, not permanent- sweet, not lasting;
Foundations fly the wretched; such, I mean,
Friendly together. So through Lud's Town march;
Frighted, and ang'red worse. Go bid my woman
From Rome all season'd office, and to wind
From action and adventure?
From chance to chance; but nor the time nor place
From east to occident; cry out for service;
From fairies and the tempters of the night
From most true wretchedness. So thou, Posthumus,
From my remembrance. And, besides, the King
From off our coast, twice beaten; and his shipping-
From off the rock Tarpeian, never more
From one bad thing to worse- not frenzy, not
From our bless'd altars. Publish we this peace
From so divine a temple to commix
From south to west on wing soaring aloft,
From th' casque to th' cushion, but commanding peace
From th' inward of thee? One but painted thus
From the first corse till he that died to-day,
From the spongy south to this part of the west,
From these old arms and legs, by the good gods,
From this most bravest vessel of the world
From thy great fail. Come, fellow, be thou honest;
From thy report as thou from honour; and
From twelve to seventy, and, pouring war
From whence though willingly I came to Denmark
From whose so many weights of baseness cannot
From youth of such a season, fore noble Lucius
Full weak to undertake our wars against
Further to boast were neither true nor modest,
Gan in your duller Britain operate
Give answer to this boy, and do it freely,
Give colour to my pale cheek with thy blood,
Give every man thine ear, but few thy voice;
Give him deserv'd vexation. Let a guard
Give him that parting kiss which I had set
Give it an understanding but no tongue.
Give the all-hail to thee, and cry 'Be blest
Give you good night.                                   Exit.
Given Hydra here to choose an officer
Given hostile strokes, and that not in the presence
Giving to you no further personal power
Glad at the thing they scowl at.
Glide thither in a day? Then, true Pisanio-
Go bid my woman feign a sickness; say
Go in and cheer the King. He rages; none
Go see my lord aboard. For this time leave me.        Exeunt
Go to them with this bonnet in thy hand;
Go whip him fore the people's eyes- his raising,
Go, and be rul'd; although I know thou hadst rather
Gods are more full of mercy. Must I repent,
Gods, put the strength o' th' Leonati in me!
Goes slow and stately by them. Thrice he walk'd
Gold strew'd i' th' floor. Here's money for my meat.
Gone! They went hence so soon as they were born.
Good Marcius home again.
Good ancestors.
Good man, the wounds that he does bear for Rome!
Good morrow to the sun. Hail, thou fair heaven!
Good work, you and your cry! Shall's to the Capitol?
Goodly and gallant shall be false and perjur'd
Grapple them unto thy soul with hoops of steel;
Great Jupiter, upon his eagle back'd,
Great cause to give great thanks.
Great hurt and mischief; thereto witness may
Great nature cries 'Deny not.' Let the Volsces
Greet you our victory? You look like Romans,
Grew shameless-desperate, open'd, in despite
Groan so in perpetuity than be cur'd
Grows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now,
Guard me, beseech ye!
Had answer'd him.
Had been my father's sons! Then had my prize
Had borne the action of yourself, or else
Had ever scar for. [To the guard] Let his arms alone;
Had he been vanquisher, as, by the same comart
Had left the flushing in her galled eyes,
Had liv'd to put on this; so had you saved
Had lov'd you as we did.
Had made his course t' illume that part of heaven
Had that was well worth watching-it was hang'd
Had we no other quarrel else to Rome but that
Half all men's hearts are his.
Hark, Polydore, it sounds. But what occasion
Harm not yourself with your vexation.
Harp on that still- but by our putting on;
Has cluck'd thee to the wars, and safely home
Has forgot Britain.
Hast not the soft way which, thou dost confess,
Hath Britain all the sun that shines? Day, night,
Hath Cadwal now to give it motion? Hark!
Hath alter'd that good picture? What's thy interest
Hath an aspect of intercession which
Hath brought me to thy hearth; not out of hope,
Hath charg'd you should not speak together.             Exit
Hath cut her throat already. No, 'tis slander,
Hath heard of great Augustus. Caius Lucius
Hath her life been; the cure whereof, my lord,
Hath here cut off my lord. To write and read
Hath in the skirts of Norway, here and there,
Hath left mine arm. It was thy master's; shrew me,
Hath made us forward. But, my gentle queen,
Hath mock'd me. I am faint.
Hath not a tomb so evident as a chair
Hath not deserv'd my service nor your loves,
Hath stol'n it from her?
Hath to it circumstantial branches, which
Hath too much mangled; whose repair and franchise
Hath virgin'd it e'er since. You gods! I prate,
Hath widowed and unchilded many a one,
Hath with his forged letters- damn'd Pisanio-
Have I heard groan and drop. Then know me not.
Have I train'd up; those arts they have as
Have all forsook me, hath devour'd the rest,
Have almost stamp'd the leasing; therefore, fellow,
Have died had I not made it.
Have got the mannish crack, sing him to th' ground,
Have heaven and earth together demonstrated
Have holp to make this rescue?
Have laid most heavy hand.
Have laid this woe here. O, 'tis pregnant, pregnant!
Have lost the wager. Boldness be my friend!
Have made the ground my bed. I should be sick
Have made to thy command? I, her? Her blood?
Have made you finish.
Have never wing'd from view o' th' nest, nor know not
Have skipp'd from sixteen years of age to sixty,
Have turn'd mine eye and wept. But, good Pisanio,
Have we in hiding us? This way the Romans
Have we not had a taste of his obedience-
Have we thus met? O, never say hereafter
Have we, as 'twere with a defeated joy,
Have words to bid you; and shall find it so
Have you not set them on?
Have' said she 'given his mistress that confection
Having receiv'd the punishment before
He and Aufidius can no more atone
He bow'd his nature, never known before
He cares not for your weeping. Speak thou, boy;
He could have temporiz'd.
He could not stay to pick them in a pile
He did incline to sadness, and oft-times
He did solicit you in free contempt
He dies to-night.
He does fair justice: if he give me way,
He flouted us downright.
He had two sons- if this be worth your hearing,
He has betray'd your business and given up,
He has it now; and by his looks methinks
He hath a drug of mine. I pray his absence
He hath a kind of honour sets him of
He hath abus'd your powers.
He hath against himself.
He hath not fail'd to pester us with message
He heard the name of death.                 [A noise within]
He is a man. I'll love him as my brother;
He is at Milford Haven. Read, and tell me
He is in Rome.
He is their god; he leads them like a thing
He leaves me, scorns me. Briefly die their joys
He little cares for, and a daughter who
He may approve our eyes and speak to it.
He may not, as unvalued persons do,
He mock'd us when he begg'd our voices.
He must have some attendants. Though his humour
He not respects at all.- What ho, Pisanio!
He purpos'd to his wife's sole son- a widow
He said he was gentle, but unfortunate;
He sent in writing after me; what he would not,
He serv'd with glory and admir'd success,
He shall be happy that can find him, if
He shall be lord of Lady Imogen,
He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice.
He spake of her as Dian had hot dreams
He that hath a will to die by himself fears it not from another.
He throws without distinction. Give me leave,
He us'd us scornfully. He should have show'd us
He wag'd me with his countenance as if
He was a kind of nothing, titleless,
He was as calm as virtue- he began
He was not taken well: he had not din'd;
He was paid for that. Though mean and mighty rotting
He was your enemy; ever spake against
He watered his new plants with dews of flattery,
He whin'd and roar'd away your victory,
He will remain so.
He would have spoke to us.
He would have well becom'd this place and grac'd
He would not answer to; forbid all names;
He would not flatter Neptune for his trident,
He'd fetch us in; yet is't not probable
He'd lay the future open. You good gods,
He'd make an end of thy posterity.
He'll grant the tribute, send th' arrearages,
He's banish'd, and it shall be so.
He's strange and peevish.
He, with two striplings- lads more like to run
Hear but my name, and tremble.
Hear from me still, and never of me aught
Hear me but a word.
Hear me with patience.
Hear nothing from him.
Hear nought from Rome in private. Your request?
Hear patiently my purpose. I'll disrobe me
Hear you this Triton of the minnows? Mark you
Hearing us praise our loves of Italy
Heart-hard'ning spectacles; tell these sad women
Help, three o' th' chiefest soldiers; I'll be one.
Her assur'd credit. Blessed live you long,
Her chambers are all lock'd, and there's no answer
Her enemies' marks upon me. I do love
Her father. I'll do something-                          Exit
Her husband banish'd; she imprison'd. All
Her pretty action did outsell her gift,
Her son into th' adoption of the crown;
Here are your sons again, and I must lose
Here come moe voices.
Here come the lords.
Here comes his mother.
Here comes the Briton. Let him be so entertained amongst you as
Here in the cheer and comfort of our eye,
Here is Cominius.
Here is a box; I had it from the Queen.
Here is a path to't; 'tis some savage hold.
Here is your servant. How now, sir! What news?
Here made by th' Roman; great the answer be
Here was 'I thank you for your voices. Thank you,
Here were a fairy.
Here's goodly work!
Himself a king.
Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads
His absolute 'shall'?
His absolute commission. Long live Caesar!
His arms thus leagu'd. I thought he slept, and put
His beastly mind to us, he hath a court
His brows within a golden crown, and call'd
His canon 'gainst self-slaughter! O God! God!
His comforts thrive, his trials well are spent.
His country's bowels out. And to poor we
His fame unparallel'd haply amplified;
His favour is familiar to me. Boy,
His favour with the radiant Cymbeline,
His fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young Fortinbras,
His foot Mercurial, his Martial thigh,
His fortunes all lie speechless, and his name
His further gait herein, in that the levies,
His good sword in his hand.
His greatness weigh'd, his will is not his own;
His head from him. I'll throw't into the creek
His humble weeds. Will you dismiss the people?
His marks of merit, wounds receiv'd for's country.
His measure duly.
His mistress' picture; which by his tongue being made,
His own conceiving. Hark, the game is rous'd!
His perishing root with the increasing vine!
His popular 'shall,' against a graver bench
His radiant roof. Away! and, to be blest,
His rage can do on me. You must be gone;
His reasons with his body.
His remedies are tame. The present peace
His rougher accents for malicious sounds,
His skill in the construction.
His war for Britain.
His wife is in Corioli, and his child
Hold it a fashion, and a toy in blood;
Hold me your loyal servant.
Hold you the watch to-night?
Holding a weak supposal of our worth,
Honour and policy, like unsever'd friends,
Honour'd with confirmation your great judgment
Horatio!- or I do forget myself.
How I would think on him at certain hours
How bravely thou becom'st thy bed! fresh lily,
How came it yours?
How can she be with him? When was she miss'd?
How dearly they do't! 'Tis her breathing that
How deeply you at once do touch me! Imogen,
How far 'tis thither. If one of mean affairs
How found you him?
How hard it is to hide the sparks of nature!
How in his suit he scorn'd you; but your loves,
How it goes here. It fits us therefore ripely
How long continued; and what stock he springs of-
How many score of miles may we well ride
How mean soe'er, that have their honest wills,
How more unfortunate than all living women
How much of his displeasure. [Aside] Yet I'll move him
How much the quantity, the weight as much
How now, my son?
How parted with your brothers? how first met them?
How probable I do not know- that Marcius,
How shall this bosom multiplied digest
How should I be reveng'd?
How should I be reveng'd? If this be true-
How swift his ship.
How we may steal from hence; and for the gap
How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable
How you can frown, than spend a fawn upon 'em
How youngly he began to serve his country,
Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother
I admittance and opportunity to friend.
I am amaz'd with matter.
I am an officer of state and come
I am bound to you.
I am fall'n in this offence.
I am gone.                                              Exit
I am hush'd until our city be afire,
I am ignorant in what I am commanded.
I am in heaven for him; or ere I could
I am loath to beat thee.
I am one of those. His mother, wife, his child,
I am senseless of your wrath; a touch more rare
I am sick still; heart-sick. Pisanio,
I am so dishonour'd that the very hour
I am soldier to, and will abide it with
I am son to th' Queen.
I and my brother are not known; yourself
I barely gratify your love; they failing,
I bid for you as I'd buy.
I can with ease produce.
I cannot do it better than in gyves,
I cannot sing. I'll weep, and word it with thee;
I cannot tremble at it. Were it toad, or adder, spider,
I carried from thee, dear, and my true lip
I could beat forty of them.
I could not miss my way. Will poor folks lie,
I cross'd the seas on purpose and on promise
I dare be bound he's true and shall perform
I dare speak it to myself, for it is not vain-glory for a man and
I dedicate myself to your sweet pleasure,
I do beseech you give him leave to go.
I do not say I am one; but I have a hand. Why tribute? Why should
I doubt some foul play. Would the night were come!
I draw the sword myself; take it, and hit
I fast and pray'd for their intelligence- thus:
I further know not.
I got this ring; 'twas Leonatus' jewel,
I had a feigned letter of my master's
I had as lief be a condemn'd man.
I had been mercenary.
I had fear'd death, of all the men i' th' world
I had forgot them- were two winking Cupids
I had rather thou shouldst live while nature will
I had wings to follow it! Come, and be true.            Exit
I have a heart as little apt as yours,
I have been consul, and can show for Rome
I have borne this business.
I have consider'd of a course. Good lady,
I have forgot my part and I am out,
I have gone all night. Faith, I'll lie down and sleep.
I have got two worlds by't. O my gentle brothers,
I have heard I am a strumpet, and mine ear,
I have heard of such. What slave art thou?
I have no further with you.' Was not this mockery?
I have not seen these two days.
I have not slept one wink.
I have outstood my time, which is material
I have sat too long.                                [Rising]
I have seen and heard of; for your voices have
I have seen thee stern, and thou hast oft beheld
I have sent Cloten's clotpoll down the stream,
I have spoke this to know if your affiance
I have stol'n nought; nor would not though I had found
I have the placing of the British crown.
I have tir'd myself, and for two nights together
I have tumbled past the throw, and in his praise
I have yielded to; fresh embassies and suits,
I having ta'en the forfeit. Whereupon-
I holp to frame thee. Do you know this lady?
I hope it be not gone to tell my lord
I humbly set it at your will; but for my mistress,
I kiss'd it; and it gave me present hunger
I kneel before thee, and unproperly
I know 'tis he. We are held as outlaws. Hence!
I know he'll quickly fly my friendship too.
I know her women are about her; what
I know not how a traitor.
I know not how much more, should be demanded,
I know the shape of's leg; this is his hand,
I know this cannot be.
I know you are more clement than vile men,
I left out one thing which the Queen confess'd,
I lov'd the maid I married; never man
I love thee brotherly, but envy much
I love thee more and more; think more and more
I love this youth, and I have heard you say
I may be heard, I would crave a word or two;
I mean that married her, alack, good man!
I mean to man, he had not apprehension
I mean, for your particular- you had not
I might know more.
I must aboard to-morrow.
I must be ripp'd. To pieces with me! O,
I must die much your debtor.
I must have leave to pass.
I never saw one so prone. Yet, on my conscience, there are verier
I nothing know where she remains, why gone,
I pray thee stay with us, go not to Wittenberg.
I prithee call me. Sleep hath seiz'd me wholly.    Exit LADY
I prithee, noble friend, home to thy house;
I purpose not to wait on fortune till
I saw Jove's bird, the Roman eagle, wing'd
I saw him not these many years, and yet
I saw't this morning; confident I am
I say it shall be so.
I say they nourish'd disobedience, fed
I say your city- to his wife and mother;
I see into thy end, and am almost
I seem'd his follower, not partner; and
I shall be lov'd when I am lack'd. Nay, mother,
I shall discharge to th' life.
I shall not look upon his like again.
I shall unfold equal discourtesy
I should do so in honour. I am in this
I should do so. You shall be miss'd at court,
I should have lost the worth of it in gold.
I should woo hard but be your groom. In honesty
I slew him there.
I something fear my father's wrath, but nothing-
I stay too long. But here my father comes.
I still win of you. For my sake wear this;
I talk of you:
I thank thee for myself.
I thank you. By yond bush? Pray, how far thither?
I think he'll hear me. Yet to bite his lip
I think it was to see my mother's wedding.
I think, to liberty. Yet am I better
I thought had been my lord.
I thought you would not back again.
I tremble still with fear; but if there be
I urg'd our old acquaintance, and the drops
I was about to say, enjoy your- But
I was confederate with the Romans. So
I was forc'd to scold. Your judgments, my grave lords,
I wear it as your enemy.
I were best not call; I dare not call. Yet famine,
I will attend the Queen.
I will be known your advocate. Marry, yet
I will conclude to hate her, nay, indeed,
I will confirm with oath; which I doubt not
I will entreat: my boy, a Briton born,
I will from hence to-day.
I will go meet the ladies. This Volumnia
I will go there and do't, i' th' court, before
I will leave to appear hereafter, rather than story him in his
I will not ask again. Close villain,
I will not hear thee speak. This man, Aufidius,
I will not.
I will report, so please you; these her women
I will requite your loves. So, fare you well.
I will yet do you service.
I wish my brother make good time with him,
I would adventure.
I would dissemble with my nature where
I would have 'voided thee; but in mere spite,
I would have had you put your power well on
I would have left it on the board, so soon
I would not speak. I pray you spare me. Faith,
I would not thy good deeds should from my lips
I would the gods had nothing else to do
I would they were in Afric both together;
I wrote him Imogen was slain. 'Tis strange.
I yet not understand the case myself.
I' th' absence of the needer.
I' th' body of the weal; and now, arriving
I' th' bottom of a cowslip. Here's a voucher
I' th' cave wherein they bow, their thoughts do hit
I' th' dungeon by a snuff?
I' th' plain way of his merit.
I' th' right and strength o' th' commons' be it either
I' th' swathing clothes the other, from their nursery
I' th' war do grow together; grant that, and tell me
I' th' way of flattery further.
I' th'name of fame and honour, which dies i' th'search,
I'd change my sex to be companion with them,
I'd let a parish of such Cloten's blood,
I'd not have given a doit. Hark, how they joy!
I'd with thee every foot.
I'll be thy master. Walk with me; speak freely.
I'll choke myself- there's all I'll do for you.         Exit
I'll cross it, though it blast me.- Stay illusion!
I'll do his country service.
I'll do well yet. Thou old and true Menenius,
I'll fetch a turn about the garden, pitying
I'll follow those that even now fled hence,
I'll frame convenient peace. Now, good Aufidius,
I'll give but notice you are dead, and send him
I'll give no wound to thee. Therefore, good heavens,
I'll go to him and undertake to bring him
I'll grace thee with that robbery, thy stol'n name
I'll have five hundred voices of that sound.
I'll have this secret from thy heart, or rip
I'll hide my master from the flies, as deep
I'll keep, if but for sympathy.
I'll make a journey twice as far t' enjoy
I'll never give o'er. First, a very excellent good-conceited
I'll not to Rome, I'll back with you; and pray you
I'll now taste of thy drug.                  [Swallows some]
I'll remember't anon. Even there, thou villain Posthumus, will I
I'll rob none but myself; and let me die,
I'll run away till I am bigger, but then I'll fight.
I'll speak to it, though hell itself should gape
I'll speak to thee in silence.                      [Sleeps]
I'll sweeten thy sad grave. Thou shalt not lack
I'll take the better care; but if you will not,
I'll tell thee on the instant thou art then
I'll thither. What thing is't that I never
I'll try whether my old wit be in request
I'll visit you.
I'll willingly to him; to gain his colour
I'm not their father; yet who this should be
If I could shake off but one seven years
If I discover'd not which way she was gone,
If I do line one of their hands? 'Tis gold
If I say fine, cry 'Fine!'- if death, cry 'Death!'
If I would lose it for a revenue
If Marcius should be join'd wi' th' Volscians-
If after this command thou fraught the court
If anything that's civil, speak; if savage,
If brothers. [Aside] Would it had been so that they
If each of you should take this course, how many
If he be gone he'll make his grave a bed;
If he could burn us all into one coal
If he had gone forth consul, found it so.
If he should still malignantly remain
If he were putting to my house the brand
If in your country wars you chance to die,
If it be so to do good service, never
If it could so roar to me. I cut off's head,
If it were so that our request did tend
If not most mortal to him. But let it come.
If of my freedom 'tis the main part, take
If quiet life be best; sweeter to you
If she be furnish'd with a mind so rare,
If she unmask her beauty to the moon.
If she went before others I have seen as that diamond of yours
If that his head have ear in music; doubtless
If that thy gentry, Britain, go before
If the King come, I shall incur I know not
If there be any good thing to be done,
If these be they, I know not how to wish
If they be senators; and they are no less,
If thou art privy to thy country's fate,
If thou hast any sound, or use of voice,
If we do fear this body hath a tail
If with too credent ear you list his songs,
If you do hold the same intent wherein
If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus,
If you had been the wife of Hercules,
If you have heard your general talk of Rome
If you have hitherto conceal'd this sight,
If you have writ your annals true, 'tis there
If you keep covenant. Had I not brought
If you submit you to the people's voices,
If you swear still, your recompense is still
If you will bless me, sir, and give me leave,
If you will make 't an action, call witness to 't.
If you will swear you have not done't, you lie;
If you will take this audit, take this life,
If you'll be patient, I'll no more be mad;
If, as his nature is, he fall in rage
Imogen, Imogen!
Importing the surrender of those lands
In Caesar's name pronounce I 'gainst thee; look
In Cambria are we born, and gentlemen;
In France. 'Tis plate of rare device, and jewels
In Italy, and her confederate arms,
In Jove's own book, like an unnatural dam
In Volscian breasts. That we have been familiar,
In a great pool a swan's nest. Prithee think
In a most curious mantle, wrought by th' hand
In a most dear particular. He call'd me father;
In a true hate to pray they have their will:
In all his own desires; nay, let him choose
In all that I can do.
In anger, Juno-like. Come, come, come.
In asking their good loves; but thou wilt frame
In being Coriolanus.
In bolted language; meal and bran together
In congregations, to yawn, be still, and wonder,
In doing this for's country. Athwart the lane
In dreadful secrecy impart they did,
In embassy to his mother; his body's hostage
In equal scale weighing delight and dole,
In filial obligation for some term
In going back to school in Wittenberg,
In heaps and piles of ruin.
In him that should compare. I do not think
In his behalf.
In killing creatures vile, as cats and dogs,
In mine own person; holp to reap the fame
In my bedchamber.
In my good brother's fault. I know not why
In my profession? Knighthoods and honours borne
In my respect than all the hairs above thee,
In obstinate condolement is a course
In our first way.
In our not-fearing Britain than have tidings
In peace what each of them by th' other lose
In peace, to his utmost peril.
In peril of precipitation
In place of greater state. I'll meet you in the valleys.
In poor beseeming; 'twas a fitment for
In puny battle slay me.
In simple and low things to prince it much
In soothing them we nourish 'gainst our Senate
In such a time nothing becoming you
In suit the place of's bed, and win this ring
In supplication nod; and my young boy
In that's no changeling, and I must excuse
In the dead vast and middle of the night
In the election of a sir so rare,
In the most high and palmy state of Rome,
In the same time 'tis made? I will not.
In these two princely boys! They are as gentle
In thews and bulk; but as this temple waxes,
In this our pinching cave, shall we discourse.
In this sad wreck? How came't? Who is't? What art thou?
In this so never-needed help, yet do not
In thy hands clutch'd as many millions, in
In which the majesty of buried Denmark
In workmanship and value; which I wonder'd
In you, which I account his, beyond all talents.
In your despite, upon your purse? Revenge it.
Inclin'd to this intelligence pronounce
Increase your services; so seem as if
Indeed, I would be consul.
Inform us of thy fortunes; for it seems
Ingrate forgetfulness shall poison rather
Insisting on the old prerogative
Instructs you how t' adore the heavens, and bows you
Insult without all reason; where gentry, title, wisdom,
Intends t' appear before the people, hoping
Into a haviour of less fear, ere wildness
Into an auger's bore.
Into destruction cast him.
Into my story; say 'Thus mine enemy fell,
Into the bowels of ungrateful Rome,
Is Cadwal mad?
Is all the policy, strength, and defence,
Is at last gasp. Return he cannot, nor
Is bound for Italy; he embark'd at Milford;
Is breach of all. I am ill, but your being by me
Is certain falling, or so slipp'ry that
Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,
Is every breath a death. And thus unknown,
Is fall'n into thy ear! What false Italian-
Is full accomplish'd; for the Roman eagle,
Is gone, we know not how nor where.
Is it?
Is jollity for apes and grief for boys.
Is left untender'd.
Is nobler than attending for a check,
Is not here passable.
Is not this something more than fantasy?
Is now due debt. To th' grave.
Is oft the cease of fear.
Is one of the fairest that I have look'd upon.
Is outward sorrow, though I think the King
Is quite forgot. He was a queen's son, boys;
Is severally in all. Let's quit this ground,
Is she sole child to th' King?
Is so from sense in hardness that I can
Is sorer than to lie for need; and falsehood
Is south the chamber, and the chimneypiece
Is telling you that I am poor of thanks,
Is that we scarce are men, and you are gods.            Exit
Is that you reconcile them: while the Volsces
Is the desire that's glorious. Blessed be those,
Is the main motive of our preparations,
Is this most constant wife, who even now
Is this: she hath bought the name of whore thus dearly.
Is to exchange one misery with another,
Is warm'd by th' rest and takes it thankfully.
Is worse in kings than beggars. My dear lord!
Is worth of consuls, senators, patricians,
Is yet fresh in their grief.
Is yet to name the winner. Fare you well.
It be to do thee service.
It did not speak before. All solemn things
It fits your wisdom so far to believe it
It honour'd him.
It is a basilisk unto mine eye,
It is a manacle of love; I'll place it
It is a recreation to be by
It is a thing I made, which hath the King
It is a thing most precious. But for her,
It is an earnest of a further good
It is an office of the gods to venge it,
It is most retrograde to our desire;
It is no act of common passage but
It is not, nor it cannot come to good.
It is the humane way; the other course
It is the woman's part. Be it lying, note it,
It is your fault that I have lov'd Posthumus.
It lifted up it head and did address
It makes the consuls base; and my soul aches
It may be heard at court that such as we
It may be probable she lost it, or
It shall be so.
It shows a will most incorrect to heaven,
It stands in like request?
It was a bare petition of a state
It was a mark of wonder.
It was a worthy building. How? a page?
It was my instant death. By accident
It was wise nature's end in the donation,
Italian fiend! Ay me, most credulous fool,
Itself to motion, like as it would speak;
Itself, and all my treason; that I suffer'd
Join'd in commission with him, but either
Join'd with Aufidius, leads a power 'gainst Rome,
Jove knows what man thou mightst have made; but I,
Joy'd are we that you are.
Keep Rome in safety, and the chairs of justice
Killing our enemies, the blood he hath lost-
Kills me to look on't. Let there be no honour
Know you me yet?
Know'st me not by my clothes?
Know, if you kill me for my fault, I should
Known but by letter; thither write, my queen,
Last night 'twas on mine arm; I kiss'd it.
Lead, lead. [Aside] The time seems long; their blood thinks scorn
Leave this faint puling and lament as I do,
Leave unsaluted. Sink, my knee, i' th' earth;       [Kneels]
Leave us to cure this cause.
Leave us to ourselves, and make yourself some comfort
Leonatus' friends.
Lessen'd herself and in the beams o' th' sun
Lest I surcease to honour mine own truth,
Lest his infection, being of catching nature,
Lest parties- as he is belov'd- break out,
Lest that thy wives with spits and boys with stones,
Lest you shall chance to whip your information
Lest, being miss'd, I be suspected of
Let every feeble rumour shake your hearts;
Let her lie still and dream. By your leave, ho!     [Knocks]
Let him be apprehended.
Let him be ransom'd. Never master had
Let it be granted you have seen all this, and praise
Let it be tenable in your silence still;
Let it be virtuous to be obstinate.
Let me alone with him.         Exeunt BELARIUS and ARVIRAGUS
Let me be counted serviceable. How look I
Let me commend thee first to those that shall
Let me deserve so ill as you, and make me
Let me not think on't! Frailty, thy name is woman!-
Let the high office and the honour go
Let them accuse me by invention; I
Let them have cushions by you. You are plebeians,
Let them not cease, but with a din confus'd
Let them pronounce the steep Tarpeian death,
Let there be covenants drawn between's. My mistress exceeds in
Let us impart what we have seen to-night
Let us seem humbler after it is done
Let us with care perform his great behest.   [GHOSTS vanish]
Let what is here contain'd relish of love,
Let what is meet be said it must be meet,
Let your general do his worst. For you, be that you are, long;
Let's do't, I pray; and I this morning know
Let's follow him and pervert the present wrath
Let's make the best of it.
Let's reinforce or fly.                               Exeunt
Let's see the boy's face.
Lie in th' interpretation of the time;
Like Niobe, all tears- why she, even she
Like a bold flood o'erbeat. O, come, go in,
Like a full-acorn'd boar, a German one,
Like a great sea-mark, standing every flaw,
Like beasts, which you shun beastly, and may save
Like egg-shells mov'd upon their surges, crack'd
Like fragments in hard voyages, became
Like graves i' th' holy churchyard.
Like him by chance. Yet give us our dispatch.
Like interrupted waters, and o'erbear
Like one i' th' stocks. Thou hast never in thy life
Like to a bowl upon a subtle ground,
Like to a lonely dragon, that his fen
Like warlike as the wolf for what we eat.
Live like Diana's priest betwixt cold sheets,
Lives in men's eyes, and will to ears and tongues
Living to time.
Loaden with honour. Say my request's unjust,
Lolling the tongue with slaught'ring, having work
Long as my exile, sweet as my revenge!
Longer to live most weary, and present
Longs after for the garbage.
Look thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue,
Look through a casement to allure false hearts,
Look'd wond'ring each at others.
Lost by his father, with all bands of law,
Lov'd me above the measure of a father;
Love's counsellor should fill the bores of hearing
Love's reason's without reason. The bier at door,
Loves woman for; besides that hook of wiving,
Lucius proconsul; and to you, the tribunes,
Lust and rank thoughts, hers, hers; revenges, hers;
Madam, 's enough for you, and too much too.
Madam, all joy befall your Grace, and you!
Made Lud's Town with rejoicing fires bright
Made by some other deity than Nature,
Made good the passage, cried to those that fled
Made hard with hourly falsehood- falsehood as
Made him joint-servant with me; gave him way
Made me a counterfeit; yet my mother seem'd
Made me to blame in memory.
Made me to fan you thus; but the gods made you,
Made scruple of his praise, and wager'd with him
Maids, matrons, nay, the secrets of the grave,
Make haste; who has the note of them?
Make motion through my lips, and my arm'd knees,
Make no collection of it. Let him show
Make our eyes flow with joy, hearts dance with comforts,
Make the sun dance. Hark you!               [A shout within]
Make thy demand aloud. [To IACHIMO] Sir, step you forth;
Makes fear'd and talk'd of more than seen- your son
Makes our hopes fair. Command our present numbers
Makes the survivor heir of all.
Makes you think so.
Making but reservation of yourselves
Making the mother, wife, and child, to see
Mangles true judgment, and bereaves the state
Many dream not to find, neither deserve,
Marcellus?
March to assault thy country than to tread-
Marcius would have all from you; Marcius,
Mark it- the eldest of them at three years old,
Married your royalty, was wife to your place;
Masters, lay down your weapons.
May bare the raven's eye! I lodge in fear;
May be call'd ransom, let it come. Sufficeth
May enter 'twixt the gap of both and take
May give his saying deed; which is no further
May hang upon your hardness; therefore hear us.
May make some stronger head- the which he hearing,
May plod it in a week, why may not I
May prove his travel, not her danger.
May say 'This mercy we have show'd,' the Romans
May show like all yourself.
May take off some extremity, which to read
Me of my lawful pleasure she restrain'd,
Me, wretch more worth your vengeance. But alack,
Means he not us? I partly know him; 'tis
Men's vows are women's traitors! All good seeming,
Menenius does! O my son! my son! thou art preparing fire for us;
Merely through fear, that the strait pass was damm'd
Methinks I see him now-
Might have found easy fines; but there to end
Might stop our countryman.
Might well have warm'd old Saturn; that I thought her
Might'st easiliest harbour in? Thou blessed thing!
Mine action and thine own? our horses' labour?
Mine and your mistress! O, my lord Posthumus!
Mine arms about that body, where against
Mine ears against your suits are stronger than
Mine ears, that heard her flattery; nor my heart
Mine eyes to sweat compassion. But, good sir,
Mine honour for his truth; who being so heighten'd,
Mine honour'd lady!
Mine interest and his honour; or have charg'd him,
Mingle their spurs together.
Mistake me not, to save my life; for if
More after our commandment than as guided
More bound to's mother, yet here he lets me prate
More evident than this; for this was stol'n.
More fearful, is deliver'd.
More goddess-like than wife-like, such assaults
More hateful than the foul expulsion is
More holy and profound, than mine own life,
More learned than the ears- waving thy head,
More noble than that runagate to your bed,
More of thee merited than a band of Clotens
More perilous than the head.
More pious debts to heaven than in all
More plentiful than tools to do't, struck down
More sharp than this is.
More slavish did I ne'er than answering
More sweet than our blest fields. His royal bird
More than a mortal seeming. Be not angry,
More than a wild exposture to each chance
More than my shanks and wrists; you good gods, give me
More than the instant army we can make,
More than the locking up the spirits a time,
More than you doubt the change on't; that prefer
More valour in me than my habits show.
More worthier than their voices. They know the corn
Mortal, to cut it off: to cure it, easy.
Most cruel to herself. What she confess'd
Most dangerously you have with him prevail'd,
Most like a noble lord in love and one
Most mighty Princess, that I have adventur'd
Most palates theirs. They choose their magistrate;
Most pretty things to say. Ere I could tell him
Most valour, spoke not for them. Th' accusation
Most vilely; for my vantage, excellent;
Most welcome!
Most worthy prince, as yours, is true Guiderius;
Mother, I am going to the market-place;
Motion and breath left out.
Mount, eagle, to my palace crystalline.            [Ascends]
Much under him; of him I gather'd honour,
Murd'ring impossibility, to make
Murd'rous to th' senses? That confirms it home.
Murder in heaven! How! 'Tis gone. Pisanio,
Must I remember? Why, she would hang on him
Must I then do't to them?
Must all determine here?
Must as a foreign recreant be led
Must be half-workers? We are all bastards,
Must be supplyant. The words of your commission
Must bear my beating to his grave- shall join
Must curtsy at the censure. O, boys, this story
Must first induce you to believe- whose strength
Must give this cur the lie; and his own notion-
Must have that thanks from Rome after the measure
Must justify my knowledge.
Must murder wives much better than themselves
Must not continue friends.
Must not in haste abuse- if it be true,
Must or for Britons slay us, or receive us
Must shuffle for itself.
Must these have voices, that can yield them now
Must wear the print of his remembrance out,
My best and freshest men; serv'd his designments
My birthplace hate I, and my love's upon
My brother hath done well.
My brother wears thee not the one half so well
My clouted brogues from off my feet, whose rudeness
My conscience bids me ask- wherefore you have
My country's good with a respect more tender,
My crack'd one to more care. Have with you, boys!
My dagger in my mouth. Say what thou art;
My dear wife's estimate, her womb's increase
My emperor hath wrote; I must from hence,
My father hath a reason for't.
My father's brother, but no more like my father
My father's spirit- in arms? All is not well.
My father, and make me put into contempt the suits
My father- methinks I see my father.
My fortunes and my friends at stake requir'd
My friends of noble touch; when I am forth,
My friends,
My grained ash an hundred times hath broke
My hazards still have been your solace; and
My head as I do his.
My hunger's gone; but even before, I was
My lady's honour. What became of him
My lord hath interest in them, I will keep them
My master's enemy.
My name hath touch'd your ears: it is Menenius.
My nobler friends, I crave their pardons.
My peace we will begin. And, Caius Lucius,
My praises made thee first a soldier, so,
My purpose would prove well. It cannot be
My queen, my life, my wife! O Imogen,
My residence in Rome at one Philario's,
My revenge properly, my remission lies
My supreme crown of grief! and those repeated
My surname, Coriolanus. The painful service,
My tailor made them not.
My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France
My throat to thee and to thy ancient malice;
My wife comes foremost, then the honour'd mould
Myself I'll dedicate. Let me make men know
Myself a former fortune.
Myself by with a needle, that I might prick
Myself your loyal servant, or endure
Myself, Belarius, that am Morgan call'd,
Nature hath meal and bran, contempt and grace.
Nay, and you shall hear some.  [To BRUTUS] Will you be gone?
Nay, but thou shalt stay too. I would my son
Nay, followed him till he had melted from
Nay, godded me indeed. Their latest refuge
Nay, sometime hangs both thief and true man. What
Nay, to thy mere confusion, thou shalt know
Ne'er through an arch so hurried the blown tide
Neither a borrower nor a lender be;
Neither supreme, how soon confusion
Never bestrid a horse, save one that had
Nice longing, slanders, mutability,
No bond but to do just ones. Gods! if you
No care of yours it is; you know 'tis ours.
No danger in what show of death it makes,
No elder than a boy!
No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm,
No farther halting! Satisfy me home
No harm by it, though the gods hear, I hope
No harm, I trust, is done?
No heart among you? Or had you tongues to cry
No impediment between, but that you must
No jocund health that Denmark drinks to-day
No less belov'd. The Roman Emperor's letters,
No lesser of her honour confident
No more a Briton, I have resum'd again
No more infected with my country's love
No more obey the heavens than our courtiers
No more.
No servant of thy master's. Against self-slaughter
No stricter render of me than my all.
No, nor the fruitful river in the eye,
No, not th' expulsion of the Tarquins.
Nobler than that it covers. Let thy effects
Nor Cymbeline dreams that they are alive.
Nor any unproportion'd thought his act.
Nor by th' matter which your heart prompts you,
Nor check my courage for what they can give,
Nor customary suits of solemn black,
Nor ever will be rul'd.
Nor feel him where he struck. Being an ugly monster,
Nor from the state nor private friends, hereafter
Nor hear I from my mistress, who did promise
Nor iron on his heel! I am asham'd
Nor satisfying us.
Nor shall you do my ear that violence
Nor tent to bottom that. But speak.
Nor the dejected havior of the visage,
Nor what ensues, but have a fog in them
Nor when she purposes return. Beseech your Highness,
Nor windy suspiration of forc'd breath,
Nor yoke with him for tribune.
Not after our command. Away with her,
Not as death's dart, being laugh'd at; his right cheek
Not fearing outward force, so shall my lungs
Not half so old as that. I'll write against them,
Not having the power to do the good it would,
Not knowing why.
Not mine to speak on't.
Not more resembles- that sweet rosy lad
Not poison any further.
Not seen of late? Grant, heavens, that which I fear
Not so allur'd to feed.
Not to be other than one thing, not moving
Not to be shak'd; the agent for his master,
Not wagging his sweet head; and yet as rough,
Not what is dangerous present, but the los
Not yet thou know'st me, and, seeing me, dost not
Nothing but his report.
Nothing is done to purpose. Therefore, beseech you-
Nothing to be were better. This was my master,
Now fear is from me, I'll speak troth. Lord Cloten,
Now follows, that you know, young Fortinbras,
Now for ourself and for this time of meeting.
Now humble as the ripest mulberry
Now mingled with their courages, will make known
Now, Master Doctor, have you brought those drugs?
Now, by the jealous queen of heaven, that kiss
Now, this no more dishonours you at all
O Cymbeline, heaven and my conscience knows
O cunning, how I got it!- nay, some marks
O for a horse with wings! Hear'st thou, Pisanio?
O good but most unwise patricians! Why,
O lady, weep no more, lest I give cause
O master, what a strange infection
O sleep, thou ape of death, lie dull upon her!
O world, thy slippery turns! Friends now fast sworn,
O worthiness of nature! breed of greatness!
O'er the vast world to seek a single man,
O'erborne i' th' former wave. Ten chas'd by one
O'erborne their way, consum'd with fire and took
O'ercome with pride, ambitious past all thinking,
O'ercome you with her show; and in time,
O'erpays all I can do. By this your king
O, above measure false!
O, giglot fortune!- to master Caesar's sword,
O, learn'd indeed were that astronomer
O, let me 'bate!- but not like me, yet long'st,
O, speak!
Obedience, which you owe your father. For
Obedient as the scabbard. What is here?
Occasion smiles upon a second leave.
Of 'came, and saw, and overcame.' With shame-
Of Cloten's death- we being not known, not muster'd
Of Phoebus' wheel; and might so safely, had it
Of Roman gentlemen by the Senate sent.
Of all the trades in Rome. Look, I am going.
Of all the under fiends. But if so be
Of all the voices that we have procur'd,
Of angry eyes, not comforted to live
Of any king's in Europe! I do think
Of any penny tribute paid. Our countrymen
Of burning Rome.
Of chamber-hanging, pictures, this her bracelet-
Of common-kissing Titan, and forget
Of contradiction; being once chaf'd, he cannot
Of courts, of princes, of the tricks in war.
Of dreaded justice, but on the ministers
Of each new-hatch'd, unfledg'd comrade. Beware
Of entrance to a quarrel; but being in,
Of general ignorance- it must omit
Of hardiness is mother. Ho! who's here?
Of heaven and men, her purposes, repented
Of her or you, having proceeded but
Of him that best could speak; for feature, laming
Of him that did not ask but mock, bestow
Of his queen mother, which for more probation
Of his wings destitute, the army broken,
Of hope, not longing, mine Italian brain
Of impious stubbornness. 'Tis unmanly grief;
Of late. Hail, sir!
Of leigers for her sweet; and which she after,
Of many a bold one, whose kinsmen have made suit
Of many in the army. Many years,
Of mine own eyes.
Of mine own kindred. When I wak'd, I found
Of my lord's health, of his content; yet not
Of my success.                                          Exit
Of no allowance to your bosom's truth.
Of no esteem. I, dreading that her purpose
Of no more bondage be to where they are made
Of noisome musty chaff. He said 'twas folly,
Of one persuaded well of.
Of our design. He bears himself more proudlier,
Of our great action; therefore shall he die,
Of our so frank donation. Well, what then?
Of place 'tween high and low. Our foe was princely;
Of present death.
Of princely fellows, shalt hereafter find
Of rich and exquisite form, their values great;
Of sea and land, which can distinguish 'twixt
Of secret on her person, that he could not
Of shame seen through thy country, speed thee straight
Of silver, each on one foot standing, nicely
Of space had pointed him sharp as my needle;
Of stronger earth than others. My mother bows,
Of that integrity which should become't,
Of that most delicate lodging. By my life,
Of the King's looks, hath a heart that is not
Of the divorce he'd make! The heavens hold firm
Of the same house Publius and Quintus were,
Of the unguarded hearts, heavens, how they wound!
Of the wars' surfeits to go rove with one
Of their dispatch.
Of these Italian weeds, and suit myself
Of these dilated articles allow.            [Gives a paper.]
Of these fair edifices fore my wars
Of these thy compounds on such creatures as
Of this his nephew's purpose, to suppress
Of this post-haste and romage in the land.
Of thy assault. If he shall think it fit
Of thy dear husband, than that horrid act
Of thy deep duty more impression show
Of unimproved mettle hot and full,
Of virtue was she; yea, and she herself.
Of what commands I should be subject to,
Of what is in her chamber nothing saves
Of what is past.
Of what is to be dreaded.
Of what lies heavy to't.
Of what that want might ruin.
Of what we blame him for!
Of what we chance to sentence.
Of whom he had this ring.
Of whom he's chief- with all the size that verity
Of wounds two dozen odd; battles thrice six
Of yet this scarce-cold battle, at this instant
Of you their captives, which ourself have granted;
Of your chaste daughter the wide difference
Of your great danger.
Offend our hearing; hush! How dare you ghosts
On a dissension of a doit, break out
On either side I come to spend my breath,
On greatness' favour, dream as I have done;
On him, her brothers, me, her master, hitting
On like conditions, will have counter-seal'd.
On their abatement; that's not my desire.
On thy too ready hearing? Disloyal? No.
On whom depending, their obedience fails
On whom there is no more dependency
Once Arviragus, in as like a figure
Once more let me behold it. Is it that
Once more to hew thy target from thy brawn,
Once touch my shoulder. Great the slaughter is
Once, and a million!
One bred of alms and foster'd with cold dishes,
One fire drives out one fire; one nail, one nail;
One of her women lawyer to me, for
One that speaks thus their voice?
One time will owe another.
One vice but of a minute old for one
One, two, three. Time, time!             Exit into the trunk
Opposing laws with strokes, and here defying
Or Jove for's power to thunder. His heart's his mouth;
Or all will fall in broil.
Or butchers killing flies.
Or by some other.
Or dead or sleeping on him? But dead, rather;
Or do your honour injury.
Or else it would have gall'd his surly nature,
Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio!
Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life
Or in my life what comfort, when I am
Or less!- at first? Perchance he spoke not, but,
Or let us lose it. We do here pronounce,
Or look upon our Romans, whose remembrance
Or lose mine arm for't. Thou hast beat me out
Or lose your heart, or your chaste treasure open
Or never be so noble as a consul,
Or never trust to what my tongue can do
Or pile ten hills on the Tarpeian rock,
Or roaring terrors; for defect of judgment
Or rudely visit them in parts remote
Or senseless speaking, or a speaking such
Or she that bore you was no queen, and you
Or stomach-qualm'd at land, a dram of this
Or that the Everlasting had not fix'd
Or that the negligence may well be laugh'd at,
Or they so suffering. Then on good ground we fear,
Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
Or we are Romans and will give you that,
Or what his death will bring us.
Or what is worst will follow.
Or, by our greatness and the grace of it,
Or, if you'd ask, remember this before:
Or, like the Parthian, I shall flying fight;
Or, seeing it, of such childish friendliness
Or, wing'd with fervour of her love, she's flown
Ordain'd our laws- whose use the sword of Caesar
Other conclusions? I will try the forces
Our Britain seems as of it, but not in't;
Our Jovial star reign'd at his birth, and in
Our aediles smote, ourselves resisted? Come!
Our ancestor was that Mulmutius which
Our certain death; therefore it is decreed
Our chariots and our horsemen be in readiness.
Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.
Our comfort in the country. We must find
Our courtiers say all's savage but at court.
Our general himself makes a mistress of him, sanctifies himself
Our grace can make him so.
Our neighbour shepherd's son!
Our peace we'll ratify; seal it with feasts.
Our pleasure his full fortune doth confine;
Our prayers to the gods, which is a comfort
Our prisoners with the sword. But since the gods
Our state to be disjoint and out of frame,
Our swifter composition.
Our temple was he married. Rise and fade!
Our tradesmen singing in their shops, and going
Our valour is to chase what flies; our cage
Our viands had been poison'd, or at least
Our wish, which side should win; for either thou
Ourselves to be.
Out of his subject; and we here dispatch
Out of my files, his projects to accomplish,
Out of the shot and danger of desire.
Out of thy garments.
Out of your best advice.
Out-sweet'ned not thy breath. The ruddock would,
Outsells them all. I love her therefore; but
Outvenoms all the worms of Nile, whose breath
PLEBEIANS. Down with him! down with him!
Pardon me, lords, 'tis the first time that ever
Pardon's the word to all.
Part shame, part spirit renew'd; that some turn'd coward
Partition make with spectacles so precious
Passing through nature to eternity.
Pays dear for my offences.                              Exit
Peace is a very apoplexy, lethargy; mull'd, deaf, sleepy,
Perchance 'twill walk again.
Perfumes the chamber thus. The flame o' th' taper
Perhaps thy childishness will move him more
Permitted by our dastard nobles, who
Perplex'd in all. The heavens still must work.
Personates thee; and thy lopp'd branches point
Pieces of gold 'gainst this which then he wore
Pisanio might have kill'd thee at the heart,
Pisanio, thou that stand'st so for Posthumus!
Pitied nor hated, to the face of peril
Play judge and executioner all himself,
Plenty and peace breeds cowards; hardness ever
Plough Rome and harrow Italy; I'll never
Pluck a hard sentence. Prithee, valiant youth,
Poor I am stale, a garment out of fashion,
Poor house, that keep'st thyself!
Poor ignorant baubles!- on our terrible seas,
Poor shadows of Elysium, hence and rest
Poor tributary rivers as sweet fish.
Possess it merely. That it should come to this!
Post I in this design. Well may you, sir,
Posthumus anchors upon Imogen;
Postures beyond brief nature; for condition,
Pray you speak with me. You shall at least
Pre-occupied with what you rather must do
Prefer you to his daughter. Frame yourself
Present yourself, desire his service, tell him
Presented to my knife his throat. I took him;
Preserv'd the Britons, was the Romans' bane.'
Preservers of my throne. Woe is my heart
Pretty and full of view; yea, happily, near
Prithee now, say you will, and go about it.
Proceed by swallowing that; for he believes
Proclaims how she esteem'd him and his virtue;
Profess myself the winner of her honour,
Promises Britain peace and plenty.
Protects not us; then why should we be tender
Proud Cleopatra when she met her Roman
Prouder than rustling in unpaid-for silk:
Prov'd us unspeaking sots.
Prove false!                                            Exit
Prove holy water on thee! Imogen,
Provok'd by him, you cannot- the great danger
Prunes the immortal wing, and cloys his beak,
Puppies!
Purpose return. Why hast thou gone so far
Pursue him to his house and pluck him thence,
Put him to choler straight. He hath been us'd
Put not your worthy rage into your tongue;
Put on for villainy; not born where't grows,
Put up your swords.
Puts to him all the learnings that his time
Quail to remember- Give me leave, I faint.
Quake in the present winter's state, and wish
Rather than envy you.
Rather to show a noble grace to both parts
Rather to wonder at the things you hear
Rather, directly fly.
Re-enter POSTHUMUS, and seconds the Britons; they rescue
Ready in gibes, quick-answer'd, saucy, and
Ready, when time shall prompt them, to make road
Real necessities, and give way the while
Receive it from me, then: war and confusion
Recoil from your great stock.
Red as 'twould burn Rome, and his injury
Regard me as I do not flatter, and
Rejoic'd deliverance more. Blest pray you be,
Remember me at court, where I was taught
Render to me some corporal sign about her,
Repair to th' Capitol.
Repair to th' Senate House.
Repairs itself by rest. Our Tarquin thus
Repeal him with the welcome of his mother;
Repent in their election.                   Exeunt plebeians
Report should render him hourly to your ear
Reports the Volsces with several powers
Reposing on a cushion.
Requires nor child nor woman's face to see.
Requite your love!
Respeaking earthly thunder. Come away.
Resume that spirit when you were wont to say,
Return me, as Cominius is return'd,
Revengingly enfeebles me; or could this carl,
Richer than doing nothing for a bribe,
Rides on the posting winds and doth belie
Rights by rights falter, strengths by strengths do fail.
S' incapable of help.
Safe mayst thou wander, safe return again!
Save that Euriphile must be Fidele.
Save these in bonds. Let them be joyful too,
Save when command to your dismission tends,
Save you, sir.
Say their great enemy is gone, and they
Say yea to thy desires. A thousand welcomes!
Scaling his present bearing with his past,
Scandal'd the suppliants for the people, call'd them
Scars to move laughter only.
Screw'd to my memory? She hath been reading late
Seal what I end withal! This double worship,
Search for a jewel that too casually
Seducing so my friends; and to this end
Seek for thy noble father in the dust.
Seem to me all the uses of this world!
Self-loving-
Send your trunk to me; it shall safe be kept
Sent by a consul to me, should not sooner
Serv'd well for Rome-
Set down by th' poll?
Set down our host. My partner in this action,
Set on there! Never was a war did cease,
Shakes all our buds from growing.
Shall I be tempted to infringe my vow
Shall be so ever.
Shall from this practice but make hard your heart;
Shall give thee opportunity.' O damn'd paper,
Shall have judicious hearing. Stand, Aufidius,
Shall, by the power we hold, be our good deed,
Shall-
Shark'd up a list of lawless resolutes,
She hath been colted by him.
She hath not yet forgot him; some more time
She is alone th' Arabian bird, and I
She married. O, most wicked speed, to post
She pray'd me to excuse her keeping close;
She priz'd it once.
She should that duty leave unpaid to you
She stripp'd it from her arm; I see her yet;
She will not quench, and let instructions enter
She wish'd me to make known; but our great court
She would not lose it. Her attendants are
She'll home to her father; and provide me presently
She's far enough; and what he learns by this
She's my good lady and will conceive, I hope,
She's punish'd for her truth, and undergoes,
Shed for my thankless country, are requited
Shook down my mellow hangings, nay, my leaves,
Should answer solemn accidents. The matter?
Should by the minute feed on life, and ling'ring,
Should from encounter guard. Could I find out
Should from yond cloud speak divine things,
Should have ta'en vengeance on my faults, I never
Should learn, being taught, forbearance.
Should make desire vomit emptiness,
Should now eat up her own!
Should say 'Be good to Rome'- they charg'd him even
Should yield the world this ass! A woman that
Show duty, as mistaken all this while
Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven,
Show'd mastership in floating; fortune's blows,
Show'd thy dear mother any courtesy,
Sienna's brother.
Sigh'd truer breath; but that I see thee here,
Since 'a could draw a sword, and is ill school'd
Since I can reason of it. Pray you trust me here.
Since I have ever followed thee with hate,
Since I receiv'd command to do this busines
Since Leonatus' false.
Since doubting things go ill often hurts more
Since she is living, let the time run on
Since the exile of Posthumus, most retir'd
Since the true life on't was-
Sits safe and still without him.
Sits smiling to my heart; in grace whereof,
Six of his labours you'd have done, and sav'd
Sky-planted, batters all rebelling coasts?
Slaver with lips as common as the stairs
Sluttery, to such neat excellence oppos'd,
Small as an eunuch or the virgin voice
Smil'd at their lack of skill, but found their courage
Smile to't before; if winterly, thou need'st
So Caesar shall not find them.
So bravely done, so rich, that it did strive
So by his father lost; and this, I take it,
So can I name his faults.
So children temporal fathers do appease;
So criminal and in such capital kind,
So excellent a king, that was to this
So fair an outward and such stuff within
So fair, and fasten'd to an empery,
So far I read aloud;
So far as thou wilt speak it.
So farewell, noble Lucius.
So feat, so nurse-like; let his virtue join
So follow to be most unlike our courtiers,
So frown'd he once when, in an angry parle,
So gain'd the sur-addition Leonatus;
So graze as you find pasture.
So hallow'd and so gracious is the time.
So hated, and so banish'd. But he has a merit
So likely to report themselves. The cutter
So long a breeding as his white beard came to,
So long a poor unknown.
So long attended thee. If thou wert honourable,
So many miles with a pretence? This place?
So merry and so gamesome. He is call'd
So much as but to prop him?
So much as this fact comes to? [Reads] 'Do't. The letter
So needful for this present. It strikes me past
So nightly toils the subject of the land,
So out of thought, and thereto so o'ergrown,
So please you entertain me.
So slackly guarded, and the search so slow
So slight a valuation, should reserve
So soon as I can win th' offended King,
So tender of rebukes that words are strokes,
So tender over his occasions, true,
So that all hope is vain,
So the revenge alone pursu'd me! Polydore,
So think of your estate.
So to be false with her.
So vanish'd; which foreshow'd our princely eagle,
So virgin-like without? Lo, here she comes.
So worthy as thy birth.
So, get you gone. If this penetrate, I will consider your music
So, so. Well done, well done.
Solicits here a lady that disdains
Some bloody sign of it, for 'tis commanded
Some falls are means the happier to arise.            Exeunt
Some griefs are med'cinable; that is one of them,
Some harlot's spirit! My throat of war be turn'd,
Some men are much to blame.
Some mortally, some slightly touch'd, some falling
Some say that ever, 'gainst that season comes
Some slain before, some dying, some their friends
Some trick not worth an egg, shall grow dear friends
Some upright justicer! Thou, King, send out
Something of me, or what concerns me; pray you-
Something's afore't. Soft, soft! we'll no defence!-
Sometime in Greece-
Son to the Queen, after his own report;
Sparkles this stone as it was wont, or is't not
Speak of it! Stay, and speak!- Stop it, Marcellus!
Speak that-
Speak to me.
Speak to me.
Speak, Iachimo. I had you down, and might
Speak, good Sicinius.
Speak, or thy silence on the instant is
Speed how it will. I shall ere long have knowledge
Spit, and throw stones, cast mire upon me, set
Splitting the air with noise.
Spread further.
Stain all your edges on me. 'Boy'! False hound!
Stand I before thee here. Then if thou hast
Stand dumb and speak not to him. This to me
Stand in their ancient strength.
Stand to me in this cause. O mother! wife!
Standing your friendly lord.
Stands in worse case of woe. And thou, Posthumus,
Statist though I am none, nor like to be,
Stealing so poorly.
Stepp'd before targes of proof, cannot be found.
Stick to your journal course. The breach of custom
Still close as sure.
Still seem as does the King's.
Still to remember wrongs? Daughter, speak you:
Still waving, as the fits and stirs of's mind
Still your own foes- deliver you
Stoop'd as to foot us. His ascension is
Strains his young nerves, and puts himself in posture
Strange ling'ring poisons. I do know her spirit,
Strike the proud cedars 'gainst the fiery sun,
Strikes life into my speech, and shows much more
Stronger than ever law could make; this secret
Struck the main-top. O Posthumus! alas,
Subdues all pangs, all fears.
Subscrib'd by th' consuls and patricians,
Success to th' Roman host.
Such a foe, good heavens!                 Exit into the cave
Such and such pictures; there the window; such
Such as I can, twice o'er, I'll weep and sigh;
Such gain the cap of him that makes him fine,
Such noble fury in so poor a thing;
Such parting were too petty. Look here, love:
Such precious deeds in one that promis'd nought
Such thoughts and such; or I could make him swear
Such was the very armour he had on
Suffer't, and live with such as cannot rule
Supplied with worthy men! plant love among's!
Sweet words; or hath moe ministers than we
Swift, swift, you dragons of the night, that dawning
T' employ you towards this Roman. Come, our queen.
T' encounter me with orisons, for then
T' enjoy thy banish'd lord and this great land!         Exit
T' entreat your Grace but in a small request,
T' extol what it hath done.
T' inherit such a haven. But first of all,
T' unbar these locks. My conscience, thou art fetter'd
T'allay my rages and revenges with
Ta'en off by poison.
Tabors and cymbals, and the shouting Romans,
Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment.
Take it to heart? Fie! 'tis a fault to heaven,
Take not away the taper, leave it burning;
Take or lend. Ho! No answer? Then I'll enter.
Take this along; I writ it for thy sake     [Gives a letter]
Take up a brace o' th' best of them; yea, the two tribunes.
Take your own way.
Taken to wife; nor have we herein barr'd
Takes from Aufidius a great part of blame.
Takes off my manhood. I have belied a lady,
Takes prisoner the wild motion of mine eye,
Tell me how Wales was made so happy as
Tent in my cheeks, and schoolboys' tears take up
Th' adornment of her bed; the arras, figures-
Th' apprehension of his present portance,
Th' elected deer before thee?
Th' extravagant and erring spirit hies
Th' imperial jointress to this warlike state,
Th' imperious seas breed monsters; for the dish,
Th' one half of my commission, and set down-
Th'art tir'd, then, in a word, I also am
Th'imperial Caesar, Caesar, should again unite
Than I did truly find her, stakes this ring;
Than I to Hercules. Within a month,
Than I to your Highness; who, being born your vassal,
Than are upon you yet.
Than boys pursuing summer butterflies,
Than can our reasons. There's no man in the world
Than crave the hire which first we do deserve.
Than die ere I hear more. Strive, man, and speak.
Than dogs, that are as often beat for barking
Than doth become a man. I will remain
Than ever frown'd in Greece. By Jove himself,
Than flatter him in a bower.
Than have seen this.
Than in his feats deserving it, for him
Than in our priest-like fasts. Therefore I'll watch him
Than is the full-wing'd eagle. O, this life
Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father.
Than lady, ladies, woman. From every one
Than one that's sick o' th' gout, since he had rather
Than pity note how much. Therefore be gone.
Than pity to our prayers. Down. An end;
Than priests and fanes that lie.
Than seek the end of one, thou shalt no sooner
Than shame to th' Romans; and we here deliver,
Than so much loss of time.
Than some whose tailors are as dear as yours
Than stay, past doubt, for greater.
Than that of common sons.
Than that which dearest father bears his son
Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal.
Than the severity of the public power,
Than thee, all noble Marcius. Let me twine
Than they are to their virtues, which is nothing.
Than thine own worth prefer thee. Go with me.
Than those for preservation cas'd or shame-
Than thou hast spoken words?
Than thou hast to deny't. Come, let us go.
Than thou of them. Come all to ruin. Let
Than to be sure they do; for certainties
Than to take in a town with gentle words,
Than to work any. Will you rhyme upon't,
Than violent'st contrariety.
Than what he stood for, so his gracious nature
Than what you hear of. Come more, for more you're ready.
Than what you should, made you against the grain
Than when I first my wedded mistress saw
Than when I parted hence, but still subsisting
Than when it was a-doing.
Than when these fellows ran about the streets
That Ancus Marcius, Numa's daughter's son,
That Cloten, whose love-suit hath been to me
That I am to pronounce Augustus Caesar-
That I cannot look through. Away, I prithee;
That I did amplify my judgment in
That I have sent her, by her own command
That I kiss aught but he.
That I may see again.
That I mean to thee. Tell thy mistress how
That I regard it not.
That I return'd with simular proof enough
That I should seem to lack humanity
That I, which know my heart, do here pronounce,
That Rome can make against them.
That acts my words. The younger brother, Cadwal,
That all but we enjoy. For how can we,
That all th' abhorred things o' th' earth amend
That all the plagues of hell should at one time
That always favour'd him.
That an invisible instinct should frame them
That angel of the world- doth make distinction
That answer to them. Would you, in their serving,
That are so fortified against our story,
That as his worthy deeds did claim no less
That babies lulls asleep! The smiles of knaves
That being pass'd for consul with full voice,
That box I gave you was not thought by me
That brought thee to this world.
That brought you forth this boy to keep your name
That by the top doth take the mountain pine
That caus'd a lesser villain than myself,
That common chances common men could bear;
That could not trace them!
That cravens my weak hand. Come, here's my heart-
That cures us both. I am much sorry, sir,
That did attend themselves, and had the virtue
That didst set up my disobedience 'gainst the King
That do corrupt my air- I banish you.
That do distribute it- in the name o' th' people,
That draw his knives i' th' war. Well, I will find him;
That drug-damn'd Italy hath out-craftied him,
That ever hath but clipp'd his body is dearer
That ever swore her faith.
That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound
That fly me thus? Some villain mountaineers?
That from my mutest conscience to my tongue
That gave th' affront with them.
That grief and patience, rooted in him both,
That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature
That had a court no bigger than this cave,
That had a royal lover, took his hint;
That hath a stomach in't; which is no other,
That hath beside well in his person wrought
That hath her husband banish'd. O, that husband!
That hath receiv'd an alms! I will not do't,
That have a sharper known; well corresponding
That have afflictions on them, knowing 'tis
That have this golden chance, and know not why.
That he enchants societies into him,
That he is thus cut off. Please it your honours
That he might not beteem the winds of heaven
That he quit being; and his gentle lady,
That he spake to thee?
That he's your fixed enemy, and revoke
That here by mountaineers lies slain. Alas!
That his contempt shall not be bruising to you
That is my bed too, lads, and there I'll lie.
That it is place which lessens and sets off;
That it shall hold companionship in peace
That it was folly in me thou mayst say,
That kill'd thy daughter; villain-like, I lie-
That knew the stars as I his characters-
That late he married- hath referr'd herself
That lock up your restraint. For you, Posthumus,
That long to move.
That love the fundamental part of state
That made the air unwholesome when you cast
That makes thee stare thus? Wherefore breaks that sigh
That may to thee do ease, and, race to me,
That mend upon the world.
That most desir'd the match. But not a courtier,
That mount the Capitol; join gripes with hands
That my revengeful services may prove
That nothing-gift of differing multitudes,
That now thou tirest on, how thy memory
That of all things upon the earth he hated
That our best water brought by conduits hither;
That our great king himself doth woo me oft
That our renowned Rome, whose gratitude
That pages blush'd at him, and men of heart
That place them on the truth of girls and boys.
That play with all infirmities for gold
That possible strength might meet, would seek us through,
That promise noble service; and they come
That prosperously I have attempted, and
That run i' th' clock's behalf. But this is fool'ry.
That satiate yet unsatisfied desire, that tub
That seem like prudent helps, are very poisonous
That set thee on to this desert, am bound
That shall not be my offer, not thy asking?
That shall remain a poison where it is,
That shapes man better; and they follow him
That should but rive an oak. Why dost not speak?
That should consume it, I have not the face
That shouldst repair my youth, thou heap'st
That since the common men are now in action
That starts i' th' way before thee.
That struck the hour!- was in Rome- accurs'd
That such a crafty devil as is his mother
That temple, thy fair mind, that thou mayst stand
That tends to vice in man but I affirm
That the Pannonians and Dalmatians for
That the poor soldier that so richly fought,
That the precipitation might down stretch
That their good souls may be appeas'd with slaughter
That they combine not there.
That they will waste their time upon our note,
That this will prove a war; and you shall hear
That thou restrain'st from me the duty which
That though his actions were not visible, yet
That thought he could do more, a very little
That thought her like her seeming. It had been vicious
That thought them sure of you.
That turns their countenances.
That warmer days would come. In these fear'd hopes
That was and is the question of these wars.
That we have bled together. 'Coriolanus'
That we have given him cause.
That we have made so much on. I had rather
That we meet here so strangely; but her son
That we shall hardly in our ages see
That we shall make in time from our hence-going
That we the horrider may seem to those
That we two are asunder- let that grieve him!
That we with wisest sorrow think on him
That what's else rare is chok'd; and in that point
That when he speaks not like a citizen,
That when the sea was calm all boats alike
That when they hear the Roman horses neigh,
That which he is new o'er; and he is one
That which shall break his neck or hazard mine
That which t' appear itself must not yet be
That wildly grows in them, but yields a crop
That will be given to th' loud of noise we make.
That will not hold the handling. Or say to them
That with his peremptory 'shall,' being but
That won you without blows! Despising
That would depopulate the city and
That you have tasted her in bed, my hand
That's all I reck.                                      Exit
That's curdied by the frost from purest snow,
That's due to all the villains past, in being,
That's fed with stinking tallow- it were fit
That's sure of death without it- at once pluck out
That's yet unbruis'd; bring me but out at gate.
That, Britain, I have kill'd thy mistress; peace!
That, after this strange starting from your orbs,
That, if again this apparition come,
That, if thou conquer Rome, the benefit
That, if you fail in our request, the blame
That, in th' official marks invested, you
That, like an eagle in a dove-cote, I
That, otherwise than noble nature did,
Thaw, and resolve itself into a dew!
The Britain reveller.
The Britons have raz'd out, though with the loss
The Dian of that time. So doth my wife
The King his father call'd Guiderius- Jove!
The King my father shall be made acquainted
The Princess of this country, and the air on't
The Queen is dead.
The Queen, and Princess.                              Exeunt
The Roman ladies bring not comfort home
The Roman legions, all from Gallia drawn,
The Senate's courtesy? Let deeds express
The Volsces dare break with us.
The Volsces whom you serve, you might condemn us
The Volscians are dislodg'd, and Marcius gone.
The action of my life is like it, which
The anvil of my sword, and do contest
The apparition comes. I knew your father.
The army marvell'd at it; and, in the last,
The azur'd hare-bell, like thy veins; no, nor
The battle continues; the BRITONS fly; CYMBELINE is taken.
The beggary of his change; but 'tis your graces
The bell then beating one-
The benediction of these covering heavens
The benefit of his blest beams, remaining
The benefit of our levies, answering us
The best feather of our wing- have mingled sums
The best she hath, and she, of all compounded,
The bird of dawning singeth all night long;
The book of his good acts whence men have read
The boy hath taught us manly duties; let us
The brawns of Hercules; but his Jovial face-
The breath of garlic-eaters!
The canker galls the infants of the spring
The case stands with her; do't as from thyself.
The certainty of this hard life; aye hopeless
The charges of the action. We have made peace
The chariest maid is prodigal enough
The chastity he wounded. Cytherea,
The city ports by this hath enter'd and
The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn,
The cockle of rebellion, insolence, sedition,
The cognizance of her incontinency
The consequence o' th' crown, and must not foil
The contract you pretend with that base wretch,
The corn o' th' storehouse gratis, as 'twas us'd
The country base than to commit such slaughter;
The country, our dear nurse, or else thy person,
The credit that thy lady hath of thee
The crows to peck the eagles.
The cruelty and envy of the people,
The day that she was missing he was here.
The deck, with glove, or hat, or handkerchief,
The dogs o' th' street to bay me. Every villain
The dream's here still. Even when I wake it is
The drug he gave me, which he said was precious
The due of honour in no point omit.
The dust on antique time would lie unswept,
The duty of the day. She looks us like
The end of war's uncertain; but this certain,
The evils she hatch'd were not effected; so,
The extreme dangers, and the drops of blood
The fall'n-off Britons, that we do incite
The fam'd Cassibelan, who was once at point-
The fashion- less without and more within.              Exit
The fear's as bad as falling; the toil o' th' war,
The fiery orbs above and the twinn'd stones
The fire of rage is in him, and 'twere good
The first conditions, which they did refuse
The first that ever touch'd him- he was carried
The fit and apt construction of thy name,
The flower that's like thy face, pale primrose; nor
The fore-end of my time. But up to th' mountains!
The freezing hours away? We have seen nothing;
The gaoler to his pity. I kneel'd before him;
The gates of Rome. Our spoils we have brought home
The general suit of Rome; never admitted
The gentry to this business. He creates
The glasses of my sight! A beggar's tongue
The gods look down, and this unnatural scene
The gods preserve our noble tribunes! Come.           Exeunt
The gods throw stones of sulphur on me, if
The gods will diet me with. Prithee away!
The goer-back. Why came you from your master?
The government of patience! You have won.
The grandchild to her blood. But out, affection!
The graves stood tenantless, and the sheeted dead
The great part of my comfort, gone; my queen
The ground that gave them first has them again.
The hand more instrumental to the mouth,
The hand-fast to her lord. I have given him that
The handmaids of all women, or, more truly,
The hands of Romans!
The happy man; whether defect of judgment,
The harm of unscann'd swiftness, will, too late,
The harmony of this peace. The vision
The hazard of much blood.
The hazard therefore due fall on me by
The head is not more native to the heart,
The heart that conn'd them.
The heir of Cymbeline and Britain, who
The heir of his reward; [To BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, and ARVIRAGUS]
The herbs that have on them cold dew o' th' night
The hope of comfort. But for thee, fellow,
The horn and noise o' th' monster's, wants not spirit
The innocent mansion of my love, my heart.
The inward service of the mind and soul
The kings your ancestors, together with
The knowledge of your mistress home, I grant
The lamp entreats the butcher. Where's thy knife?
The lane is guarded; nothing routs us but
The leading of thine own revenges, take
The leaf of eglantine, whom not to slander,
The legions now in Gallia sooner landed
The life o' th' need. Having found the back-door open
The lists, and full proportions are all made
The loathness to depart would grow. Adieu!
The low Posthumus slanders so her judgment
The loyal'st husband that did e'er plight troth;
The malice towards you to forgive you. Live,
The man I am.
The man is noble, and his fame folds in
The man that gave them thee. Thou art some fool;
The mansion where!- 'twas at a feast- O, would
The meanest house in Rome, so far my son-
The memory be green, and that it us befitted
The moon of Rome, chaste as the icicle
The more delay'd, delighted. Be content;
The more of you 'twas felt, the more it shap'd
The mortal bugs o' th' field.
The most disdain'd of fortune.
The multitudinous tongue; let them not lick
The natural bravery of your isle, which stands
The nature of our seats, and make the rabble
The nights are wholesome, then no planets strike,
The nobility are vex'd, whom we see have sided
The noble Imogen to repent, and struck
The noble house o' th' Marcians; from whence came
The noble knot he made.
The noble man have mercy.
The noble tribunes are the people's mouths,
The noblest ta'en.
The nonpareil of this. O, vengeance, vengeance!
The one by th' other.
The one is Caius Lucius.
The one part suffered, the other will I do.
The ooze to show what coast thy sluggish crare
The pangs of barr'd affections, though the King
The part I came in. Fight I will no more,
The penitent instrument to pick that bolt,
The people are the city.
The people cry you mock'd them; and of late,
The people do admit you, and are summon'd
The people's magistrates.
The perfume and suppliance of a minute;
The plebeians have got your fellow tribune
The pow'r that I have on you is to spare you;
The pow'rs that he already hath in Gallia
The precious note of it with a base slave,
The present pow'r of life, but in short time
The press of boats or pride. A piece of work
The princely blood flows in his cheek, he sweats,
The purpose I then follow'd. That I was he,
The rain and wind beat dark December, how,
The remedy then born- discover to me
The residence of Posthumus; so nigh, at least,
The rest do nothing- with this word 'Stand, stand!'
The riches of it. Do his bidding; strike.
The rivals of my watch, bid them make haste.
The roofs of palaces, and nature prompts them
The ruin of the state.
The safety and health of this whole state,
The same you are not, which for your best ends
The satisfaction of her knowledge only
The scriptures of the loyal Leonatus
The second name of men, obeys his points
The senators and patricians love him too.
The service that you three have done is more
The sharded beetle in a safer hold
The shes of Italy should not betray
The shrine of Venus or straight-pight Minerva,
The shrinking slaves of winter.
The sides o' th' world- against all colour here
The slave's report is seconded, and more,
The smallness of a gnat to air, and then
The smile mocking the sigh that it would fly
The soldier that did company these three
The son, the husband, and the father, tearing
The source of this our watch, and the chief head
The speediness of your return.
The strides they victors made; and now our cowards,
The sweat of industry would dry and die
The sweet which is their poison. Your dishonour
The tale of Tereus; here the leaf's turn'd down
The thankings of a king.
The thick sighs from him; whiles the jolly Briton-
The thing I have forsworn to grant may never
The thwartings of your dispositions, if
The time inviting thee? the perturb'd court,
The tongues o' th' common mouth. I do despise them,
The treasure of her honour. No more. To what end?
The tribunes are no soldiers, and their people
The tribunes cannot do't for shame; the people
The truest manner'd, such a holy witch
The trumpets, sackbuts, psalteries, and fifes,
The under-hangman of his kingdom, and hated
The vantage of his anger.
The veins unfill'd, our blood is cold, and then
The venison first shall be the lord o' th' feast;
The very devils cannot plague them better.              Exit
The very way to catch them.
The villainy of our fears.
The violent fit o' th' time craves it as physic
The violets, cowslips, and the primroses,
The virtue of his will; but you must fear,
The wager you have laid.
The walls of thy dear honour, keep unshak'd
The want is but to put those pow'rs in motion
The warlike feats I have done, his spirits fly out
The warlike service he has done, consider; think
The way into his mercy. Nay, if he coy'd
The way that they did and to grin like lions
The which shall turn you to no further harm
The whole world shall not save him.
The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail,
The woman's part in me! For there's no motion
The woman's; flattering, hers; deceiving, hers;
The world may read in me; my body's mark'd
The worthy Leonatus is in safety,
The young'st and oldest thing.
Thee and the devil alike.- What ho, Pisanio!-
Their banners wave again.
Their deer to th' stand o' th' stealer; and 'tis gold
Their liberties are now in arms, a precedent
Their liberties, make them of no more voice
Their mercy at the price of one fair word,
Their mutinies and revolts, wherein they show'd
Their needless vouches? Custom calls me to't.
Their pleasures here are past, so is their pain.
Their royal blood enchaf'd, as the rud'st wind
Their several virtues and effects.
Their talk at table, and their thanks at end;
Then afterward up higher; but there is
Then enter to his rescue BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, and ARVIRAGUS
Then in my pocket, which directed him
Then let the pebbles on the hungry beach
Then not in Britain must you bide.
Then old and fond of issue, took such sorrow
Then spare not the old father. Mighty sir,
Then vail your ignorance; if none, awake
Then weigh what loss your honour may sustain
Then were they chosen; in a better hour
Then, free for ever! Is't enough I am sorry?
There is a Frenchman his companion, one
There is a prohibition so divine
There is a slave, whom we have put in prison,
There is a world elsewhere.
There is no more such masters. I may wander
There lies thy part.                [Strikes her. She falls]
There vanish'd in the sunbeams; which portends,
There wants no diligence in seeking him,
There was a yielding- this admits no excuse.
There was no money in't. Not Hercules
There was our error.
There's business in these faces. Why so sadly
There's livers out of Britain.
There's more to be consider'd; but we'll even
There's other work in hand. I see a thing
There's some among you have beheld me fighting;
There, take thy hire; and all the fiends of hell
Therefore I have entreated him along,
Therefore I shall beseech you, if you please
Therefore go back.
Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen,
Therein behold themselves. I say again,
Therein false struck, can take no greater wound,
Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate pride,
Thersites' body is as good as Ajax',
These are a side that would be glad to have
These boys know little they are sons to th' King,
These but the trappings and the suits of woe.
These flow'rs are like the pleasures of the world;
These hands are not more like.
These herblets shall which we upon you strew.
These pipes and these conveyances of our blood
These present wars shall find I love my country,
These two young gentlemen that call me father,
These wars determine; if I can not persuade thee
They are in readiness.
They are not constant, but are changing still
They are rising, they are rising.
They are the issue of your loins, my liege,
They crave to be demanded. Who is this
They gave us our demands.' Thus we debase
They have chose a consul that will from them take
They laugh at. O my mother, mother! O!
They ne'er did service for't; being press'd to th' war
They take for natural father. The game is up.           Exit
They think they are mine; and though train'd up thus meanly
They were not born for bondage.
They would not thread the gates. This kind of service
They'll give him death by inches.
They'll pardon it.- Say you, sir?
They'll roar him in again. Tullus Aufidius,
Thine enmity's most capital: thou bar'st us
Thine own particular wrongs and stop those maims
Think me for the man I am, necessity
Think on my words.                              Exit PISANIO
Think on my words.                   Exeunt QUEEN and LADIES
Think that you are upon a rock, and now
Think us no churls, nor measure our good minds
Think what a chance thou changest on; but think
Think'st thou it honourable for a noble man
Thinking to bar thee of succession as
Thinking upon his services, took from you
This bloody man, the care on't. I hope I dream;
This bodes some strange eruption to our state.
This boy, that cannot tell what he would have
This cursed injury.
This diamond was my mother's; take it, heart;
This enemy town. I'll enter. If he slay me,
This fellow had a Volscian to his mother;
This gentle and unforc'd accord of Hamlet
This gentleman, my Cadwal, Arviragus,
This gentleman, whom I call Polydore,
This is Pisanio's deed, and Cloten. O!
This is not hunters' language. He that strikes
This is not strong enough to be believ'd
This is the last. So we will home to Rome,
This is the way to kindle, not to quench.
This label on my bosom; whose containing
This lady's husband here, this, do you see?-
This lout as he exceeds our lords, the odds
This man is better than the man he slew,
This marvel to you.
This morning for ten thousand of your throats
This mould of Marcius, they to dust should grind it,
This mutiny were better put in hazard
This night forestall him of the coming day!             Exit
This orb o' th' earth. His last offences to us
This paper is the history of my knowledge
This peace is nothing but to rust iron, increase tailors, and
This present object made probation.
This rock and these demesnes have been my world,
This service is not service so being done,
This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him.
This stain upon her?
This tablet lay upon his breast, wherein
This tiger-footed rage, when it shall find
This tribute from us, we were free. Caesar's ambition-
This true which they so seem to fear. Go home,
This unprevailing woe, and think of us
This viperous slander enters. What cheer, madam?
This viperous traitor; to eject him hence
This was my speech, and I will speak't again-
This yellow Iachimo in an hour- was't not?
This youth, howe'er distress'd, appears he hath had
Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
Those rich-left heirs that let their fathers lie
Those that would die or ere resist are grown
Those which I heav'd to head!- the good Posthumus-
Those whose great power must try him- even this,
Thou art not honest, and the gods will plague thee,
Thou art one o' th' false ones. Now I think on thee
Thou art poor'st of all; then shortly art thou mine.
Thou art straightway with the fiends.
Thou art their soldier and, being bred in broils,
Thou art thence banish'd, we would muster all
Thou art too slow to do thy master's bidding,
Thou ask'st me such a question. Have I not been
Thou com'st not, Caius, now for tribute; that
Thou dar'st not this, and that to prove more fortunes
Thou didst accuse him of incontinency;
Thou didst unjustly banish me! Whereon,
Thou diedst, a most rare boy, of melancholy.
Thou divine Imogen, what thou endur'st,
Thou divine Nature, thou thyself thou blazon'st
Thou gav'st me poison. Dangerous fellow, hence!
Thou hadst, great King, a subject who
Thou has a grim appearance, and thy face
Thou hast affected the fine strains of honour,
Thou hast look'd thyself into my grace,
Thou hast lost by this a kingdom.
Thou hast not done before.
Thou hast robb'd me of this deed. I would revenges,
Thou hast thy mistress still; to boot, my son,
Thou hast years upon thee, and thou art too full
Thou know'st 'tis common. All that lives must die,
Thou know'st not what; but take it for thy labour.
Thou mak'st thy bloody pillow? Or who was he
Thou mayst be valiant in a better cause,
Thou mov'st no less with thy complaining than
Thou noble thing, more dances my rapt heart
Thou refts me of my lands. Euriphile,
Thou shalt be so well master'd; but, be sure,
Thou shalt not damn my hand.
Thou shouldst be colour'd thus. You married ones,
Thou show'st a noble vessel. What's thy name?
Thou tak'st up
Thou then look'dst like a villain; now, methinks,
Thou wast their nurse; they took thee for their mother,
Thou wast within a ken. O Jove! I think
Thou wouldst have told this tale for virtue, not
Thou wrong'st a gentleman who is as far
Thou'rt poison to my blood.
Thou'st made me cuckold.
Thou, Leonatus, art the lion's whelp;
Though Cloten then but young, you see, not wore him
Though I show'd sourly to him- once more offer'd
Though Rome be therefore angry. Mulmutius made our laws,
Though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men's eyes.
Though calved i' th' porch o' th' Capitol.
Though forfeiters you cast in prison, yet
Though haply well for you.
Though he have serv'd a Roman. Save him, sir,
Though in Rome litter'd; not Romans, as they are not,
Though ink be made of gall.
Though light, take pieces for the figure's sake;
Though not for Rome itself.
Though peril to my modesty, not death on't,
Though therein you can never be too noble
Though they themselves did suffer by't, behold
Though this a heavenly angel, hell is here.  [Clock strikes]
Though you, it seems, come from the fliers.
Three thousand confident, in act as many-
Throng our large temples with the shows of peace,
Through a strait lane- the enemy, full-hearted,
Throw me again.                              [Embracing him]
Thrusts forth his horns again into the world,
Thus in a chapel lying! Come off, come off;
Thus much the business is: we have here writ
Thus raps you? Are you well?
Thus smiling, as some fly had tickled slumber,
Thus violently redress.
Thus with his speechless hand. What he would do,
Thy Caesar knighted me; my youth I spent
Thy condemnation and thy death.
Thy country's strength and weakness- thine own ways,
Thy dangerous stoutness; for I mock at death
Thy favour's good enough. Some jay of Italy,
Thy fortunes. How? that I should murder her?
Thy general is my lover. I have been
Thy heart to find it. Is she with Posthumus?
Thy knee bussing the stones- for in such busines
Thy lying tongue both numbers, I would say
Thy master in bleeding. Say his name, good friend.
Thy master is not there, who was indeed
Thy mind to her is now as low as were
Thy mother rather feel thy pride than fear
Thy mother's dead.
Thy name well fits thy faith, thy faith thy name.
Thy pupil long? Hast thou not learn'd me how
Thy tears are salter than a younger man's
Thy thoughts with nobleness, that thou mayst prove
Thy two sons forth, who, by Belarius stol'n,
Thy valiantness was mine, thou suck'dst it from me;
Thy wife and children's blood. For myself, son,
Thy words, I grant, are bigger, for I wear not
Thyself domestic officers- thine enemy.
Thyself, forsooth, hereafter theirs, so far
Tie leaden pounds to's heels. Proceed by process,
Till hasty Polydore return, and bring him
Till he be dieted to my request,
Till he had forg'd himself a name i' th' fire
Till he have cross'd the Severn. Happiness!
Till it fly out and show them princes born.           Exeunt
Till the injurious Romans did extort
Till the tree die!
Till then sit still, my soul. Foul deeds will rise,
Time-pleasers, flatterers, foes to nobleness.
To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,
To a morning's holy office. The gates of monarchs
To a mother's part belongs. He turns away.
To accuse myself I hate you; which I had rather
To after-eye him.
To all our subjects. Set we forward; let
To answer mildly; for they are prepar'd
To any shape of thy preferment, such
To ask of whence you are. Report it.
To banish him that struck more blows for Rome
To banish your defenders, till at length
To bathe my lips upon; this hand, whose touch,
To be but nam'd of thee. His mean'st garment
To be contracted in one brow of woe,
To be depender on a thing that leans,
To be full quit of those my banishers,
To be his evidence now.
To be his groom. Thou wert dignified enough,
To be i' th' field and ask 'What news?' of me!
To be more fresh, reviving. She is fool'd
To be reveng'd upon her. For when fools
To be set high in place, we did commend
To be suspected of more tenderness
To be unbent when thou hast ta'en thy stand,
To bear our hearts in grief, and our whole kingdom
To beg of Hob and Dick that do appear
To beg of thee, it is my more dishonour
To better vantage.
To bitterest enmity; so fellest foes,
To break it with a fearful dream of him,
To bring him here alone. Although perhaps
To bring him to the haven; left these notes
To bring the roof to the foundation,
To business with the King, more than the scope
To buy a present for the Emperor;
To buy and sell with groats; to show bare heads
To call me to your Senate, I'll deliver
To call them woollen vassals, things created
To choke it in the utt'rance. So our virtues
To come alone, either he so undertaking
To come! O, give me cord, or knife, or poison,
To curb the will of the nobility;
To darkness fleet souls that fly backwards! Stand;
To death or to dishonour, and my end
To death with mortal joy.
To die with length'ned shame.
To dinner presently.
To do myself this wrong. Till, at the last,
To do obsequious sorrow. But to persever
To draw upon an exile! O brave sir!
To enter our Rome gates. I' th' people's name,
To expel him thence. I think he'll be to Rome
To fail in the disposing of those chances
To feed again, though full. You do remember
To fright them ere destroy. But come in;
To give him welcome.                                    Exit
To give me hearing.
To give or to forgive; but when we have stuff'd
To give these mourning duties to your father;
To good or bad.               [CYMBELINE and IMOGEN advance]
To greet your lord with writing, do't to-night.
To have a temple built you. All the swords
To have begg'd or bought what I have took. Good troth,
To have mistrusted her; yet, O my daughter!
To have my praise for this, perform a part
To have sav'd their carcasses! took heel to do't,
To have the courtesy your cradle promis'd,
To have them fall no more. You some permit
To have them in safe stowage. May it please you
To have turn'd my leaping time into a crutch,
To have't with saying 'Good morrow.'
To hear Cominius speak, I'll keep at home.
To her desir'd Posthumus. Gone she is
To hide me from the radiant sun and solace
To him had left it solely.
To him that is most true. To Milford go,
To him the other two shall minister;
To his confine; and of the truth herein
To his protection, calls him Posthumus Leonatus,
To his surname Coriolanus 'longs more pride
To his unmast'red importunity.
To hopeless restitution, so he might
To hunt this day; the boy Fidele's sickness
To imitate the graces of the gods,
To inlay heaven with stars.
To jump a body with a dangerous physic
To keep her chamber.
To know from whence we are.
To know, when two authorities are up,
To let an arrogant piece of flesh threat us,
To let you know of it.
To lie in watch there, and to think on him?
To load thy merit richly. Call my women.
To look upon him, till the diminution
To look upon the holy sun, to have
To lose so bad employment, in the which
To make coals cheap- a noble memory!
To make it truster of your own report
To make perfumes? distil? preserve? yea, so
To make the noble Leonatus mad,
To make your vessel nimble.
To meet anon, upon your approbation.
To melt the city leads upon your pates,
To my demands. Why do you pity me?
To note the chamber. I will write all down:
To offer it the show of violence;
To one not sociable. I am not very sick,
To one that would do thus. I am half through:
To one whom they had punish'd.
To oppose his hatred fully. Welcome home.
To orderly soliciting, and be friended
To our most valiant brother. So much for him.
To pay our wonted tribute, from the which
To pity too.
To pluck away their power; as now at last
To purge himself with words. Dispatch.
To reason most absurd, whose common theme
To royalty unlearn'd, honour untaught,
To save the Romans, thereby to destroy
To say 'Beseech you, cease.' You have made fair hands,
To say 'Live, boy.' Ne'er thank thy master. Live;
To say extremities was the trier of spirits;
To say he'll turn your current in a ditch,
To say so to my husband.
To second ills with ills, each elder worse,
To see me first as I have now. Pisanio! Man!
To see th' enclosed lights, now canopied
To see this gracious season.
To see this vaulted arch and the rich crop
To see your Grace.
To see your wives dishonour'd to your noses-
To seek her on the mountains near to Milford;
To seem to die ere sick. So please you, leave me;
To send it me.
To send them to you only for this night;
To shame the guise o' th' world, I will begin
To shame unvulnerable, and stick i' th' wars
To show less sovereignty than they, must needs
To show my duty in your coronation,
To sour your happiness I must report
To speak of peace or war.
To speak with Coriolanus.
To stride a limit.
To suffer lawful censure for such faults
To take the one the other, by some chance,
To take them in protection?
To taste of too.
To tear with thunder the wide cheeks o' th' air,
To tell this tale of mine.
To temper poisons for her; still pretending
To th' ensuing age abhorr'd.' Speak to me, son.
To th' madding of her lord. On her left breast
To th' oath of loyalty; this object, which
To th' people, not by your own instruction,
To th' people- Coriolanus, patience!
To th' smothering of the sense- how far it is
To th' trunk again, and shut the spring of it.
To th' vulgar eye, that he bears all things fairly
To th' worst of discontent.                             Exit
To that your diamond; I'll keep them.
To the King's party there's no going. Newness
To the greater bench? In a rebellion,
To the inheritance of Fortinbras,
To the majestic cedar join'd, whose issue
To thee particularly, and to all the Volsces,
To thee, Posthumus.
To their approvers they are people such
To think, when thou shalt be disedg'd by her
To this same blessed Milford. And by th' way
To thrust the lie unto him.
To try the vigour of them, and apply
To try your taking of a false report, which hath
To unstable slightness. Purpose so barr'd, it follows
To use my lawful sword!
To voice him consul. Lay the fault on us.
To walk this way. I never do him wrong
To weep twixt clock and clock? If sleep charge nature,
To where you are bound, you must enquire your way,
To who shall find them.
To whom being going, almost spent with hunger,
To win the King as I am bold her honour
To winter-ground thy corse-
To yield me often tidings. Neither know
To yield your voices?
To you, the liver, heart, and brain, of Britain,
To your best kindness; one of your great knowing
To your protection I commend me, gods.
To your remembrances; but you have found,
To your so infinite loss, so in our trifles
To-day how many would have given their honours
To-morrow. Now, if you could wear a mind
Together have one dust, yet reverence-
Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief,
Together with remembrance of ourselves.
Together with that fair and warlike form
Together with the seal o' th' Senate, what
Together with your ring; and not the wronger
Tongue, and brain not; either both or nothing,
Too bad for bad report; and he that hath her-
Too dull for your good wearing?
Too great for what contains it. 'Boy'! O slave!
Too oft before their buttons be disclos'd,
Touching her flight.                   [Presenting a letter]
Touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us.
Towards her deserved children is enroll'd
Trail your steel pikes. Though in this city he
Translate his malice towards you into love,
Triumphantly tread on thy country's ruin,
Triumphs for nothing and lamenting toys
Trust to't, thou shalt not- on thy mother's womb
Try many, all good; serve truly; never
Twelve several times, and I have nightly since
Twice being by the people chosen censor,
Two of the sweet'st companions in the world.
Two other sons, who, in the wars o' th' time,
Tying him to aught. So, putting him to rage,
Tyrannical power. If he evade us there,
Unbuckling helms, fisting each other's throat-
Under the conduct of bold Iachimo,
Under these windows white and azure, lac'd
Under your great command. You are to know
Unheard- what then?
Unknown to the beginning.
Unknown to you, unsought, were clipp'd about
Unless I add we are honest.
Unless by using means I lame the foot
Unless his noble mother and his wife,
Unless my sins abuse my divination,
Unless thou think'st me devilish- is't not meet
Unless thou wouldst grieve quickly. This Posthumus,
Unless, by not so doing, our good city
Unlike all others, chaffless. Pray your pardon.
Unlike than this thou tell'st. I lost my children.
Unseparable, shall within this hour,
Unshout the noise that banish'd Marcius,
Until I send for thee.
Unto a poor but worthy gentleman. She's wedded;
Unto my end of stealing them. But, gracious sir,
Unto our climature and countrymen.
Unto the voice and yielding of that body
Unto young Hamlet; for, upon my life,
Upbraid's with our distress. But sure, if you
Upon a desperate bed, and in a time
Upon a fearful summons. I have heard
Upon his honour'd finger, to attain
Upon his neck a mole, a sanguine star;
Upon his will I seal'd my hard consent.
Upon my banishment; I mov'd her to't,
Upon my lady's missing, came to me
Upon our territories, and have already
Upon the love, and truth, and vows, which I
Upon the number'd beach, and can we not
Upon the part o' th' people, in whose power
Upon the pikes o' th' hunters. Then began
Upon the platform, 'twixt eleven and twelve,
Upon the voice of occupation and
Upon the witness of these gentlemen,
Upon the wounds his body bears, which show
Upon this fairest prisoner.     [Puts a bracelet on her arm]
Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands
Upon your never-withering banks of flow'rs.
Upon's again.
Vagabond exile, flaying, pent to linger
Vanquish my staider senses. What's the matter?
Vexations of it! Had I been thief-stol'n,
Virtue itself scopes not calumnious strokes.
Visit her face too roughly. Heaven and earth!
Wake and find nothing. But, alas, I swerve;
Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill.
Was all the harm I did. These gentle princes-
Was as a scorpion to her sight; whose life,
Was as another nature, dumb; outwent her,
Was call'd Belarius.
Was call'd Sicilius, who did join his honour
Was gaged by our king; which had return'd
Was his great ancestor.
Was mine in Britain; for the ring is won.
Was my belov'd in Rome; yet thou behold'st.
Was ne'er distributed.
Was near at hand. Ne'er long'd my mother so
Was not a man my father? Hadst thou foxship
Was not far off. Then was I as a tree
Was not our recompense, resting well assur'd
Was nothing but mutation- ay, and that
Was of more danger, did compound for her
Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse.
Was sulpherous to smell; the holy eagle
Was that it was for not being such a smile;
Was to send him; for whose old love I have-
Was yours by accident; had it gone with us,
Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway,
Watch'd for your voices; for your voices bear
We are beastly: subtle as the fox for prey,
We are the greater poll, and in true fear
We count not worth the hanging- but none human-
We do it wrong, being so majestical,
We grieve at chances here. Away!      Exeunt all but PISANIO
We have a power on foot, and I had purpose
We have again. Remember, sir, my liege,
We have as many friends as enemies.
We have been down together in my sleep,
We have been too slight in sufferance.      Exit a MESSENGER
We have compounded on.
We have deserv'd it.
We have led since thy exile. Think with thyself
We have noted it. Call her before us, for
We have record that very well it can;
We house i' th' rock, yet use thee not so hardly
We let the people know't.
We make a choir, as doth the prison'd bird,
We must extend our notice. Our dear son,
We must proceed as we do find the people.
We need not put new matter to his charge.
We pout upon the morning, are unapt
We should not, when the blood was cool, have threaten'd
We term it 'mulier'; which 'mulier' I divine
We were dissuaded by our wicked queen,
We were elected theirs: Marcius is worthy
We were to question farther; but I now
We will be there before the stream o' th' people;
We'll come to you after hunting.
We'll higher to the mountains; there secure us.
We'll hunt no more to-day, nor seek for danger
We'll learn our freeness of a son-in-law;
We'll leave you for this time. Go in and rest.
We'll mannerly demand thee of thy story,
We'll say our song the whilst. Brother, begin.
We'll talk of that hereafter. Prithee speak,
We'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart.
We'll try with tongue too. If none will do, let her remain; but
Well may it sort that this portentous figure
Well ratified by law and heraldry,
Were I as patient as the midnight sleep,
Were but one danger, and to keep him here
Were crack'd of kitchen trulls, or his description
Were deeply rooted, and shall make your lord
Were fit for thee to use, as they to claim,
Were in Arabia, and thy tribe before him,
Were in wild hurry, here do make his friends
Were not in fault, for she was beautiful;
Were nothing prince-like; for he did provoke me
Were present when she finish'd.
Were stol'n; and to this hour no guess in knowledge
Were there no more but it.
Were they all made such men. How now, Pisanio!
Were to prove false, which I will never be,
Were to us all that do't and suffer it
Were you but riding forth to air yourself,
Were you in my stead, would you have heard
Were, in his time, thought false; and Sinon's weeping
Wert thou the son of Jupiter, and no more
What Cloten's being here to us portends,
What I can urge against him. Although it seems,
What I have written to you?
What I shall think is good? The Princess!
What air's from home. Haply this life is best,
What an ass it is! Then thou dwell'st with daws too?
What both you spur and stop.
What can from Italy annoy us; but
What cannot be amended.
What cannot be slight work.
What companies are near. Pray you away;
What crows have peck'd them here. He brags his service,
What custom wills, in all things should we do't,
What fairies haunt this ground? A book? O rare one!
What faults he made before the last, I think
What has he done to Rome that's worthy death?
What have you done? Behold, the heavens do ope,
What have you dream'd of late of this war's purpose?
What his breast forges, that his tongue must vent;
What is become of her.
What is betid to Cloten, but remain
What is more cordial. Nay, I prithee take it;
What is that curtsy worth? or those doves' eyes,
What kind of man he is.
What lay before them.
What may be sworn by, both divine and human,
What might be toward, that this sweaty haste
What monsters her accuse? Leonatus!
What pain it cost, what danger! Gods!
What peace you'fl make, advise me. For my part,
What shall I do the while? where bide? how live?
What should I say? he was too good to be
What should the people do with these bald tribunes,
What the vengeance, could he not speak 'em fair?
What they are us'd to bear.
What think you on't?
What we two nights have seen.
What woman is, yea, what she cannot choose
What wouldst thou have, Laertes?
What you have seen him do and heard him speak,
What's best to ask. Know'st him thou look'st on? Speak,
What's in his heart, and that is there which looks
What's in't is precious. If you are sick at sea
What's like to be their words: 'We did request it;
What, are men mad? Hath nature given them eyes
What, is Horatio there ?
What, mak'st thou me a dullard in this act?
What, will he come?
When I desire it too.
When I have slain thee with my proper hand,
When I said banish him, I said 'twas pity.
When I was but your sister: I you brothers,
When I was stamp'd. Some coiner with his tools
When Imogen is dead.
When corn was given them gratis, you repin'd;
When fearful wars point at me; her son gone,
When first I did embrace him; yet his nature
When from the mountain-top Pisanio show'd thee,
When he did need your loves; and do you think
When he did stand for consul, which he lost
When he had carried Rome and that we look'd
When he hath power to crush? Why, had your bodies
When he shall come to his account, he knows not
When he th' ambitious Norway combated.
When it was less expected; he replied,
When most struck home, being gentle wounded craves
When neither are alive.
When on my three-foot stool I sit and tell
When one but of my ordinance stood up
When rich ones scarce tell true. To lapse in fulness
When shall I hear all through? This fierce abridgment
When shall we hear from him?
When shall we see again?
When she had fitted you with her craft, to work
When she, poor hen, fond of no second brood,
When thou shalt bring me word she loves my son,
When we are old as you? When we shall hear
When we banish'd him we respected not them; and, he returning to
When we shall hap to give't them.
When we were so indeed.
When what's not meet, but what must be, was law,
When yond same star that's westward from the pole
When you above perceive me like a crow,
When you have given good morning to your mistress,
When you were there?
When't pleas'd you to employ me.
When, both your voices blended, the great'st taste
Whence are you? Here's no place for you: pray go to the door.
Whene'er we come to our account.
Where I confess I slept not, but profess
Where I have liv'd at honest freedom, paid
Where Philomel gave up. I have enough.
Where folly now possesses? Do thou work.
Where great Aufidius lies. Is he in Antium?
Where have you lurk'd, that you make doubt of it?
Where he shall answer by a lawful form,
Where he was to begin, and give away
Where horses have been nimbler than the sands
Where ill men were, and was the best of all
Where is Posthumus? What is in thy mind
Where is our daughter? She hath not appear'd
Where is she gone? Haply despair hath seiz'd her;
Where is thy head? Where's that? Ay me! where's that?
Where is thy lady? In a word, or else
Where is your ancient courage? You were us'd
Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself,
Where one part does disdain with cause, the other
Where the disease is violent. Lay hands upon him
Where there is beauty; truth where semblance; love
Where there's another man. The vows of women
Where there's no profit. I prithee to our rock.
Where they should be reliev'd. Two beggars told me
Where thou shalt rest, that thou mayst hear of us,
Where we have liv'd, and so extort from's that
Where we shall find him most conveniently.           Exeunt.
Where, as they had deliver'd, both in time,
Where, if you bring not Marcius, we'll proceed
Where, in a frenzy, in my master's garments,
Wherein I am false I am honest; not true, to be true.
Wherein I seem unnatural; desire not
Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
Wherein this trunk was fram'd, and in her hand
Wherein you're happy- which will make him know
Whereof he is the head. Then if he says he loves you,
Whereto constrain'd by her infirmity
Whereto we are bound, together with thy victory,
Whereto we are bound? Alack, or we must lose
Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air,
Whether to knock against the gates of Rome,
Which I can scarcely bear.
Which I dare vouch is more than that he hath
Which I gave him for cordial, she is serv'd
Which I have spoke of, whereunto your levy
Which I left with her?
Which I made known to Lucius ere the stroke
Which I so often owe; but your ring first,
Which I, the factor for the rest, have done
Which are the movers of a languishing death,
Which buys admittance; oft it doth-yea, and makes
Which by th' interpretation of full time
Which can make gods forsworn? I melt, and am not
Which chance to find us. O, my lord, my lord!
Which daily she was bound to proffer. This
Which easily endures not article
Which else would put you to your fortune and
Which first perchance she'll prove on cats and dogs,
Which gave advantage to an ancient soldier-
Which happily foreknowing may avoid,
Which he did end all his, and took some pride
Which he did wave against my throat, I have ta'en
Which he enforc'd from me, away he posts
Which he so sets at nought.
Which he stood seiz'd of, to the conqueror;
Which he to seek of me again, perforce,
Which he was lord of; or whether nature,
Which is our honour, bitter torture shall
Which is so serious. Let us bury him,
Which makes the true man kill'd and saves the thief;
Which must approve thee honest. 'If Pisanio
Which neither here I'll keep nor bear again,
Which not to cut would show thee but a fool,
Which not to read would show the Britons cold;
Which often thus correcting thy-stout heart,
Which out of daily fortune ever taints
Which quier'd with my drum, into a pipe
Which rare it is to do- most prais'd, most lov'd,
Which rottenness can lend nature! such boil'd stuff
Which seasons comfort. Who may this be? Fie!
Which shines here in the west.
Which swell'd so much that it did almost stretch
Which the brain makes of fumes. Our very eyes
Which their own conscience seal'd them, laying by
Which then he wore; the snatches in his voice,
Which then they had to take from 's, to resume
Which they have given to beggars.
Which they have often made against the Senate,
Which this man's life did owe you, you'll rejoice
Which thou shalt thereby reap is such a name
Which thou shouldst bear me. Only that name remains;
Which to be spoke would torture thee.
Which to this hour bewail the injury,
Which torments me to conceal. By villainy
Which was sometime his general, who lov'd him
Which was your shame, by this unholy braggart,
Which way they went.
Which we call 'mollis aer,' and 'mollis aer'
Which we disdain should tetter us, yet sought
Which we have done, whose answer would be death,
Which we have goaded onward.                          Exeunt
Which we ourselves have plough'd for, sow'd, and scatter'd,
Which we will second. When he lies along,
Which were inshell'd when Marcius stood for Rome,
Which will not prove a whip; as many coxcombs
Which you are out of, with a gentler spirit,
Which you deny already; yet we will ask,
Which you know cannot err. The love I bear him
Which you might from relation likewise reap,
Which your own coffers yield! with diseas'd ventures
Which, as it seems, make thee.
Which, being cruel to the world, concluded
Which, if he take, shall quite unpeople her
Which, most gibingly, ungravely, he did fashion
While I remain above the ground you shall
While sense can keep it on. And, sweetest, fairest,
Whiles he is vaulting variable ramps,
Whiles, like a puff'd and reckless libertine,
Whilst I am bound to wonder, I am bound
Whilst summer lasts and I live here, Fidele,
Whilst what we have kill'd be cook'd.
Whilst with no softer cushion than the flint
Whither wilt thou go? Take good Cominius
Who am prepar'd against your territories,
Who bow'd but in my stirrup, bend like his
Who call'd me traitor, mountaineer, and swore
Who cannot be new built, nor has no friends
Who dares not stand his foe I'll be his friend;
Who did hoot him out o' th' city.
Who died and was Fidele. What think you?
Who ever yet could sound thy bottom? find
Who find in my exile the want of breeding,
Who had not now been drooping here if seconds
Who hath reliev'd you?
Who hath upon him still that natural stamp.
Who is here? What, are you packing, sirrah?
Who is thy grandfather; he made those clothes,
Who is't can read a woman? Is there more?
Who is't that can inform me?
Who knows if one her women, being corrupted
Who lack not virtue, no, nor power, but that
Who lets go by no vantages that may
Who long'st like me to see thy lord, who long'st-
Who needs must know of her departure and
Who now are here, taking their leaves of me
Who of their broken debtors take a third,
Who shall take notice of thee. I'll move the King
Who to my father was a friend, to me
Who was the first of Britain which did put
Who wears my stripes impress'd upon him, that
Who worship dirty gods.
Who, after great Hostilius, here was king;
Who, as I hear, mean to solicit him
Who, hearing of our Marcius' banishment,
Who, impotent and bedrid, scarcely hears
Whom best I love I cross; to make my gift,
Whom for the theft I wedded, stole these children
Whom heavens in justice, both on her and hers,
Whom late you have nam'd for consul.
Whom thou didst banish; and- which more may grieve thee,
Whom with crack'd heart I have sent to Rome,
Whom you have banish'd does exceed you an.
Whoop'd out of Rome. Now this extremity
Whose boughs did bend with fruit; but in one night
Whose children he hath slain, their base throats tear
Whose chronicle thus writ: 'The man was noble,
Whose double bosoms seems to wear one heart,
Whose dust is both alike. I am very sick.
Whose edge is sharper than the sword, whose tongue
Whose every touch, would force the feeler's soul
Whose hours, whose bed, whose meal and exercise
Whose image even but now appear'd to us,
Whose mother was her painting, hath betray'd him.
Whose passions and whose plots have broke their sleep
Whose rags sham'd gilded arms, whose naked breast
Whose repetition will be dogg'd with curses;
Whose roof's as low as ours! Stoop, boys; this gate
Why I should yield to thee.
Why did you wish me milder? Would you have me
Why fled you from the court? and whither? These,
Why in this wolvish toge should I stand here
Why seems it so particular with thee?
Why should I write this down that's riveted,
Why should excuse be born or ere begot?
Why should we in our peevish opposition
Why speak'st not? Speak, man. What's thy name?
Why stands he so perplex'd?
Why such impress of shipwrights, whose sore task
Why tender'st thou that paper to me with
Why this same strict and most observant watch
Why, hers, in part or all; but rather all;
Why, such and such; and the contents o' th' story.
Will I first work. He's for his master,
Will I lend ear to.  [Shout within]  Ha! what shout is this?
Will answer in mine honour.
Will be as rash in the repeal as hasty
Will bear the knave by th' volume. Th' honour'd gods
Will do's commission throughly; and I think
Will drive away distemper. To some shade,
Will force him think I have pick'd the lock and ta'en
Will have it thus, that nothing but our lives
Will make what's homely savoury; weariness
Will no more hear from thence.
Will not endure his yoke; and for ourself
Will not have earth to know.
Will or exceed the common or be caught
Will play the cook and servant; 'tis our match.
Will prove too bloody, and the end of it
Will remain hers.
Will seize the doctor too. How ended she?
Will serve our long interrogatories. See,
Will she not forth?
Will soon be drawn to head, from whence he moves
Will stupefy and dull the sense awhile,
Will then be pang'd by me. Prithee dispatch.
Will tie you to the numbers and the time
Will vouch the truth of it. Him I accuse
Will you be put in mind of his blind fortune,
Wilt have him live? Is he thy kin? thy friend?
Wilt lay the leaven on all proper men:
Wilt take thy chance with me? I will not say
Wilt thou not speak to me?
Wilt thou undo the worth thou art unpaid for
Winnow the truth from falsehood. On, speak to him.
With Roman swords, and my report was once
With a most false effect; and I the truer
With accusations, as I hear, more strong
With an attent ear, till I may deliver
With an auspicious, and a dropping eye,
With aptness of the season; make denials
With as big heart as thou. Do as thou list.
With bloody passage led your wars even to
With blue of heaven's own tinct. But my design
With bonds of death! Remain, remain thou here
With cautelous baits and practice.
With charitable bill- O bill, sore shaming
With cloth of any colour.
With dead men hurt behind, and cowards living
With dignities becoming your estates.
With faces fit for masks, or rather fairer
With female fairies will his tomb be haunted,
With giving him glory.
With golden cherubins is fretted; her andirons-
With his next vantage.
With his own single hand he'd take us in,
With his sword drawn, foam'd at the mouth, and swore,
With his unkindness? Say't be so?
With honour as in war; since that to both
With joy he will embrace you; for he's honourable,
With labour; then by-peeping in an eye
With language that would make me spurn the sea,
With manacles through our streets, or else
With many heads butts me away. Nay, mother,
With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch.
With mirth in funeral, and with dirge in marriage,
With modest warrant.
With my base tongue give to my noble heart
With my request, which I'll make bold your Highness
With no less honour to the Antiates
With one that wants her wits?                Exeunt TRIBUNES
With our own charge, making a treaty where
With pity that doth make me sick! A lady
With pray'rs for the provider.
With precepts that would make invincible
With rigorous hands; he hath resisted law,
With rocks unscalable and roaring waters,
With sands that will not bear your enemies' boats
With scraps o' th' court- it is no contract, none.
With six Aufidiuses, or more- his tribe,
With striving less to be so; lesser had been
With such dexterity to incestuous sheets!
With such integrity, she did confess
With tapestry of silk and silver; the story,
With that harsh, noble, simple nothing-
With that suit upon my back will I ravish her; first kill him,
With the consent of supreme Jove, inform
With the defunct, or sleep upon the dead.
With thee awhile; determine on some course
With their own nobleness, which could have turn'd
With their refusal, both observe and answer
With this affair along. For all, our thanks.
With this most tender air.
With those that have but little; this must be patch'd
With thy unworthiness, thou diest. Away!
With tokens thus and thus; averring notes
With tomboys hir'd with that self exhibition
With unchaste purpose, and with oath to violate
With us to break his neck.
With us to watch the minutes of this night,
With what contempt he wore the humble weed;
With what he would say, let him feel your sword,
With which she followed my poor father's body
With wild wood-leaves and weeds I ha' strew'd his grave,
With winds that sailors rail at.
With wine and feeding, we have suppler souls
With your stiff age. But unto us it is
Within his truncheon's length; whilst they distill'd
Within my age. But reason with the fellow
Within thine eyes sat twenty thousand deaths,
Without a monument!- bring thee all this;
Without assistance.
Without his top? The ruin speaks that sometime
Without me, as within me; not imagin'd, felt.
Without the sensible and true avouch
Woman it pretty self- into a waggish courage;
Worthy his frowning at. Their discipline,
Worthy the pressing- lies a mole, right proud
Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven
Would be even mortal to me.
Would be interpreted a thing perplex'd
Would be your country's pleader, your good tongue,
Would buy this for a lie!
Would have mourn'd longer) married with my uncle;
Would make the great'st king double, to be partner'd
Would testify, t' enrich mine inventory.
Would think upon you for your voices, and
Would this report become? But I consider
Would without lapsing suffer. Nay, sometimes,
Would, Polydore, thou hadst not done't! though valour
Yea, and furr'd moss besides, when flow'rs are none,
Yea, though thou do demand a prisoner,
Yearly three thousand pounds, which by thee lately
Yet I not doing this, the fool had borne
Yet bury him as a prince.
Yet he shall have a noble memory.
Yet is it true, sir.
Yet keeps his book uncross'd. No life to ours!
Yet left in heaven as small a drop of pity
Yet now I must confess, that duty done,
Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature
Yet who than he more mean?- to knit their souls-
Yet you are curb'd from that enlargement by
Yet, Marcius, that was much. Your hand; most welcome!
Yet, were there but this single plot to lose,
Yield, rustic mountaineer.                  Exeunt, fighting
Yielded the town. He is retir'd to Antium.
You adopt your policy, how is it less or worse
You and Fidele play the cooks; I'll stay
You and your apron men; you that stood so much
You and your crafts! You have crafted fair!
You are as welcome, worthy sir, as I
You are the most immediate to our throne,
You are the musty chaff, and you are smelt
You bees that make these locks of counsel! Lovers
You being their mouths, why rule you not their teeth?
You bred him as my playfellow, and he is
You cannot speak of reason to the Dane
You cannot tent yourself; be gone, beseech you.
You clasp young Cupid's tables. Good news, gods!
You come in faint for want of meat, depart reeling with too much
You felt than make't my boast.
You find him like a soldier; do not take
You gentle gods, give me but this I have,
You grave but reckless senators, have you thus
You had a motive for't.
You had not show'd them how ye were dispos'd,
You had of her pure honour gains or loses
You have done a brave deed. Ere you go, hear this:
You have made fair work, I fear me. Pray, your news.
You have me, rich; and I will never fail
You have put me into rhyme.
You have put me now to such a part which never
You have respected; stopp'd your ears against
You have said you will not grant us any thing-
You have won a happy victory to Rome;
You heavenly blessings, on her! This fool's speed
You here at Milford Haven; with your ships,
You lean'd unto his sentence with what patience
You look on me: what wreck discern you in me
You lords and heads o' th' state, perfidiously
You made great Juno angry.
You make strong party, or defend yourself
You may reign in them now! O Imogen,
You must forget to be a woman; change
You must report to th' Volscian lords how plainly
You must return and mend it.
You ne'er kill'd Imogen till now. Help, help!
You need it not.
You put me to forget a lady's manners
You rather mine, being yours. And so, great pow'rs,
You say he is so fell.
You should have ta'en th' advantage of his choler
You snatch some hence for little faults; that's love,
You take it off again?
You tender to her; that you in all obey her,
You that be noble; help him, young and old.
You that will be less fearful than discreet;
You think of other place. Th' ambassador,
You told us of some suit. What is't, Laertes?
You were as flow'rs, now wither'd. Even so
You were inspir'd to do those duties which
You wish'd us parties, we'll deliver you
You'll give me leave to spare when you shall find
You'll speak with Coriolanus.
You're kindly welcome.
You, good Cornelius, and you, Voltemand,
Your Highness knows. Their nurse, Euriphile,
Your Rome about your ears.
Your better wisdoms, which have freely gone
Your carriage from the court. My noble mistress,
Your colder reasons.
Your dangerous lenity. If you are learn'd,
Your enemies and his find something in him.
Your enemies, with nodding of their plumes,
Your faithful servant. I dare lay mine honour
Your fellow tribune.
Your franchises, whereon you stood, confin'd
Your gaoler shall deliver you the keys
Your gates against my force. Yet, for I lov'd thee,
Your heaviest censure.
Your husband so much sweat. Cominius,
Your ignorance- which finds not till it feels,
Your ignorant election. Enforce his pride
Your knees to me, to your corrected son?
Your laboursome and dainty trims wherein
Your lady being so easy.
Your leave and favour to return to France;
Your legs are young; I'll tread these flats. Consider,
Your liberties and the charters that you bear
Your lord, I mean- laughs from's free lungs, cries 'O,
Your lord; myself and other noble friends
Your loss your sport. I hope you know that we
Your low-laid son our godhead will uplift;
Your most sweet voices. Now you have left your voices,
Your person most; that he would pawn his fortunes
Your pleasure was my mere offence, my punishment
Your preparation can affront no less
Your soldiers use him as the grace fore meat,
Your stinking greasy caps in hooting at
Your su'd-for tongues?
Your sudden approbation.
Your sword or mine, or masterless leaves both
Your tongue, though but bastards and syllables
Your valiant Britons have their wishes in it.
Your voices therefore.' When we granted that,
Your voices. For your voices I have fought;
Your wife, your son, these senators, the nobles;
Your wisdom may inform you.
Your younger princely son; he, sir, was lapp'd
Yourself into a power tyrannical;
Youth to itself rebels, though none else near.
[Aside] Here comes a flattering rascal; upon him
[Reads] 'When as a lion's whelp shall, to himself unknown,
[To BELARIUS] Thou art my brother; so we'll hold thee ever.
[To CYMBELINE] The piece of tender air, thy virtuous daughter,
[To PISANIO] We'll slip you for a season; but our jealousy
[To the QUEEN] They were again together. You have done
[To the SENATORS]  Let me desire your company; he must come,
a cudgel; and yet my mind gave me his clothes made a false report
a piece of tender air; and when from a stately cedar shall
a ravisher, so it cannot be denied but peace is a great maker of
a violent popular ignorance given your enemy your shield, think
a woman's fitness comes by fits. Therein I must play the workman.
above him in birth, alike conversant in general services, and
accompany you home.
accordingly, as you value your trust.       LEONATUS.'
action to be guided by others' experiences; but upon my mended
added to your having, gave you some ground.
after rain, and revel an with him.
after revive, be jointed to the old stock, and freshly grow;
again. She hath despis'd me rejoicingly, and I'll be merry in my
against the senators, patricians, and nobles.
air comes in; there's none abroad so wholesome as that you vent.
all power from the people, and to pluck from them their tribunes
altogether slight.
am in Cambria, at Milford Haven. What your own love will out of
an argument that fell out last night, where each of us fell in
an army ready, say you?
an ass, which is no great hurt.
and I doubt not you sustain what y'are worthy of by your attempt.
and but one half of what he was yesterday, for the other has half
and flourish in peace and plenty.'
and heir to Mars; set at upper end o' th' table; no question
and in her eyes. There shall she see my valour, which will then
and natural person, together with the adornment of my qualities.
and sowl the porter of Rome gates by th' ears; he will mow all
and when from a stately cedar shall be lopp'd branches which,
and your misery increase with your age! I say to you, as I was
answer me with your sword.
approbation of what I have spoke!
are in a most warlike preparation, and hope to come upon them in
as you have uttered words in your own, you should not pass here;
asked him by any of the senators but they stand bald before him.
at Milford Haven; she hath my letter for the purpose; where, if
atone my countryman and you; it had been pity you should have
attemptable, than any the rarest of our ladies in France.
back to Rome and prepare for your execution. You are condemn'd;
bargain should catch cold and starve. I will fetch my gold and
be a torment to her contempt. He on the ground, my speech of
be lopp'd branches which, being dead many years, shall
because of the Queen my mother. Every jackslave hath his bellyful
bed, I think he would change places with his officer; for look
been allowed the name of. But I could then have look'd on him
been often bound for no less than my life.
been put together with so mortal a purpose as then each bore,
before her face; and all this done, spurn her home to her father,
behold the sun with as firm eyes as he.
being dead many years, shall after revive, be jointed to the old
being foolish, do not derogate.
beneath him in fortunes, beyond him in the advantage of the time,
best use of eyes to see the way of blindness! I am sure hanging's
body are as well drawn as his; no less young, more strong, not
boot, can never amend.                      Exeunt musicians
borrowed mine oaths of him, and might not spend them at my
bowl.
bowls I'll win to-night of him. Come, go.
break our necks, they respect not us.
breed ballad-makers.
broil'd and eaten him too.
but I thought there was more in him than I could think.
but to fortify her judgment, which else an easy battery might lay
by lawful counsel, and straight away for Britain, lest the
by such two that would by all likelihood have confounded one the
by the entreaty and grant of the whole table. He'll go, he says,
by this, worn out.
can match.
canst not, in the course of gratitude, but be a diligent follower
carbonado.
certain as I expect my revenge. That part thou, Pisanio, must act
charity of a penny cord! It sums up thousands in a trice. You
cock, with your comb on.
coldest that ever turn'd up ace.
commendations. My horse is tied up safe. Out, sword, and to a
companion that you give offence to.
condition of a man?
convince the honour of my mistress, if in the holding or loss of
counters; so the acquittance follows.
court where your lady is, with no more advantage than the
courtier, would hazard the winning both of first and last.
creatures, would even renew me with your eyes. Take notice that I
cuckolds.
damn'd.
day does night; it's spritely, waking, audible, and full of vent.
dead.                         Exeunt POSTHUMUS and MESSENGER
deceive me.                                             Exit
description of their meeting-place; and the fellow dares not
destroyer of men.
distinctly billeted, already in th' entertainment, and to be on
disturbing the lords within.
divorce under her colours are wonderfully to extend him, be it
dominion, could not be so cruel to me as you, O the dearest of
done!
doubt not, a great deal from the matter.
down before him, and leave his passage poll'd.
dragon; he has wings, he's more than a creeping thing.
drink; sorry that you have paid too much, and sorry that you are
drum struck up this afternoon; 'tis as it were parcel of their
else, sir, no more tribute, pray you now.
employments wherein I should have cause to use thee with a
encounter you; you have ended my business, and I will merrily
endowments had been tabled by his side, and I to peruse him by
entertainment with him if thou stand'st not i' th' state of
eternity, and a heaven to throne in.
ever said we were i' th' wrong when we banish'd him.
excelled many; but I have not seen the most precious diamond that
face.
factionary on the party of your general.
fair, virtuous, wise, chaste, constant, qualified, and less
father.
fatherly.- Good morrow to your Majesty and to my gracious mother.
feast, and to be executed ere they wipe their lips.
fellows are asleep.                                     Exit
finger and his thumb, as one would set up a top.
finger, there is some hope the ladies of Rome, especially his
finish'd with his bidding. He wants nothing of a god but
first with the best of note. Cymbeline lov'd me;
fit too? The rather- saving reverence of the word- for 'tis said
fittest time to corrupt a man's wife is when she's fall'n out
flat, for taking a beggar, without less quality. But how comes it
fool you were upon the ground.
foolish Imogen, I should have gold enough. It's almost morning,
foot at an hour's warning.
for being too light, the purse too light, being drawn of
for ever. This lies glowing, I can tell you, and is almost mature
for me, if thy faith be not tainted with the breach of hers. Let
for the defence of a town our general is excellent.
for the violent breaking out.
for thy preferment.
from Rome, all tending to the good of their adversaries. Have you
glad of yours.
good enough for him.
goodness the hugeness of your unworthy thinking. I dare you to
grapes; when he walks, he moves like an engine and the ground
greater soldier.
greatness back?
guardant cannot office me from my son Coriolanus. Guess but by my
had been something too fair and too good for any lady in Britain.
had rather not be so noble as I am; they dare not fight with me,
hanging, or of some death more long in spectatorship and crueller
hard for him, I have heard him say so himself.
hast stuck to the bare fortune of that beggar Posthumus, thou
have been blown out of your gates with sighs, and conjure thee to
have mapp'd it truly. How fit his garments serve me! Why should
have no true debitor and creditor but it; of what's past, is, and
have our two wagers recorded.
have, I am one that, telling true under him, must say you cannot
he be. Who told you of this stranger?
he is to sojourn with you? How creeps acquaintance?
he took leave of my lady and mistress.
head that he gives entrance to such companions? Pray get you out.
head, which now is growing upon thy shoulders, shall within this
heaviness. O, of this contradiction you shall now be quit. O, the
held the very garment of Posthumus in more respect than my noble
hence!                                      [Beats him away]
her nothing, though I profess myself her adorer, not her friend.
her, and give me directly to understand you have prevail'd, I am
him till after dinner.
him, makes no stranger of me; we are familiar at first.
him; he had, sir, a kind of face, methought- I cannot tell how to
his eye, talks like a knell, and his hum is a battery. He sits in
his glass to confer in his own chamber- I mean, the lines of my
his mistress, who was made by him that made the tailor, not be
his state as a thing made for Alexander. What he bids be done is
hold dear as my finger; 'tis part of it.
horsehairs and calves' guts, nor the voice of unpaved eunuch to
hour be off; thy mistress enforced; thy garments cut to pieces
house.
hurt. It is a throughfare for steel if it be not hurt.
in suffering; behold now presently, and swoon for what's to come
in with such weak breath as this? No, you are deceiv'd; therefore
in't?
insensible; a getter of more bastard children than war's a
insultment ended on his dead body, and when my lust hath dined-
intercession of such a decay'd dotant as you seem to be? Can you
is 'long of you.
is Adrian.
is with that which makes him both without and within.
is't not?
is, nor you the lady.
it be thy first service; go.
it die as it was born, and I pray you be better acquainted.
it flame again; for the nobles receive so to heart the banishment
it is yours; if you fall in the adventure, our crows shall fare
it- and then let her consider.
items.
joy, and make him good friend to the people!
judgment- if I offend not to say it is mended- my quarrel was not
kill thee. I would these garments were come. She said upon a
kindnesses I am most infinitely tied. Reflect upon him
knaves desire to live, for all he be a Roman; and there be some
know now that I am in estimation; you shall perceive that a Jack
know, or jump the after-inquiry on your own peril. And how you
ladies' flesh at a million a dram, you cannot preserve it from
lady in the world.
lay you ten thousand ducats to your ring that, commend me to the
let forth your half pint of blood. Back- that's the utmost of
light upon neighbouring ponds. Your ring may be stol'n too. So
look thee, here's water to quench it. I was hardly moved to come
man i' th' world.
man that were to sleep your sleep, and a hangman to help him to
man's voice.
many friends as enemies; which friends, sir, as it were, durst
many of us. That we did, we did for the best; and though we
master's garments in thy possession?
may, without contradiction, suffer the report. It was much like
milk in a male tiger; that shall our poor city find. And all this
mistress, my ten thousand ducats are yours; so is your diamond
mistress. Thou prat'st and prat'st; serve with thy trencher;
moe such Caesars. Other of them may have crook'd noses; but to
more remarkable in single oppositions. Yet this imperceiverant
more- a punishment too.
mother, having power of his testiness, shall turn all into my
mother, may prevail with him. But I say there is no hope in't;
music a mornings; they say it will penetrate.
must be weighed rather by her value than his own, words him, I
my bed, the testimonies whereof lie bleeding in me. I speak not
my inferiors.
my wager rather against your confidence than her reputation; and,
no further your enemy- she is not worth our debate; if she remain
no, though it were as virtuous to lie as to live chastely.
not be a villain, but do me true service, undergo those
not together; she's a good sign, but I have seen small reflection
not- look you, sir- show themselves, as we term it, his friends,
not.
note from the Volscian state, to find you out there. You have
notice.
oak not to be wind-shaken.                            Exeunt
of a crescent note, expected to prove so worthy as since he hath
of action hath made you reek as a sacrifice. Where air comes out,
of fighting, and I must go up and down like a cock that nobody
of her wit.
of him.
of mine. Wilt thou serve me?
of that worthy Coriolanus that they are in a ripe aptness to take
of them too that die against their wills; so should I, if I were
of your fair mistress; make her go back even to the yielding, had
on't; before Corioli he scotch'd him and notch'd him like a
on.
one of my rank!
one. I would we were all of one mind, and one mind good. O, there
opinion and th' assault you have made to her chastity you shall
opportunity of a second conference, and I will bring from thence
or put the moon in his pocket, we will pay him tribute for light;
other is not a thing for sale, and only the gift of the gods.
other or have fall'n both.
our general has sworn you out of reprieve and pardon.
our throats are sentenc'd, and stay upon execution.
out o' th' house. Prithee call my master to him.
out of weak surmises, but from proof as strong as my grief and as
outlustres many I have beheld, I could not but believe she
outpriz'd by a trifle.
owe such straight arms, none.
own hearing.
paid too much; purse and brain both empty; the brain the heavier
pardon Rome and thy petitionary countrymen. The good gods assuage
particular prosperity, and love thee no worse than thy old father
pass. Therefore go back.
pays the shot.
perform it directly and truly- I would think thee an honest man;
pictur'd. You must either be directed by some that take upon them
pleasure.
praise of our country mistresses; this gentleman at that time
present profit, but my wish hath a preferment in't.     Exit
provided I have your commendation for my more free entertainment.
purpose, I hope.
quality. I beseech you all be better known to this gentleman,
rather shunn'd to go even with what I heard than in my every
remains loyal to his vow, and your increasing in love
request of his country.
revenge.
ring, which, in my opinion, o'ervalues it something. But I make
said to: Away!                                          Exit
serious industry- that is, what villainy soe'er I bid thee do, to
shall be called to no more payments, fear no more tavern bills,
shall bring from him. There is no more mercy in him than there is
shall find us in our salt-water girdle. If you beat us out of it,
shall speed in your journey's end, I think you'll never return to
shall tender itself to thee. My revenge is now at Milford, would
she so prais'd- to the court I'll knock her back, foot her home
should hurt her.
shrinks before his treading. He is able to pierce a corslet with
side the town.
so early. He cannot choose but take this service I have done
son. My daughter. He kill'd my cousin Marcus. He kill'd my
sore purpose! Fortune, put them into my hand. This is the very
spoken, I swear.
standers-by to curtail his oaths. Ha?
station; here's no place for you. Pray you avoid. Come.
stock, and freshly grow; then shall Posthumus end his miseries,
strange guest he has here.
stronger than it was at that time; and, as I said, there is no
suits with gentlemen of your knowing to a stranger of his
tainting. But I see you have some religion in you, that you fear.
tell one.
term it.
testimony that I have enjoy'd the dearest bodily part of your
than an eight-year-old horse. The tartness of his face sours ripe
that I have commanded thee. The third is that thou wilt be a
that honour of hers which you imagine so reserv'd.
that you term her frail. I do nothing doubt you have store of
the better for you; and there's an end.
the better; if it do not, it is a vice in her ears which
the heat of their division.
the man in blood, they will out of their burrows, like conies
the other casual; a cunning thief, or a that-way-accomplish'd
the pander to her dishonour, and equally to me disloyal.'
the way of winking.
them the way I am going, but such as wink and will not use them.
then a whoreson jackanapes must take me up for swearing, as if I
then shall Posthumus end his miseries, Britain be fortunate
these wars, his great opposer, Coriolanus, being now in no
thieves; notwithstanding, I fear not my ring.
thine own hands take away her life; I shall give thee opportunity
thing loves him in my despite. What mortality is! Posthumus, thy
thing; after, a wonderful sweet air, with admirable rich words to
things as you, I can scarce think there's any, y'are so slight.
think to blow out the intended fire your city is ready to flame
think, that shall set them in present action. So, sir, heartily
this advise you, follow. So he wishes you all happiness that
this match: here's my ring.
thou fear to strike, and to make me certain it is done, thou art
thou shouldst neither want my means for thy relief nor my voice
thy wrath, and turn the dregs of it upon this varlet here; this,
time- the bitterness of it I now belch from my heart- that she
to bar your offence herein too, I durst attempt it against any
to come, the discharge. Your neck, sir, is pen, book, and
to front his revenges with the easy groans of old women, the
to know, or to take upon yourself that which I am sure you do not
to thee; but being assured none but myself could move thee, I
to-night?
too. If I come off, and leave her in such honour as you have
trust in, she your jewel, this your jewel, and my gold are yours-
two, or longer. If you seek us afterwards in other terms, you
unknown, without seeking find, and be embrac'd by
unseduc'd, you not making it appear otherwise, for your ill
upon an up-cast to be hit away! I had a hundred pound on't; and
upon importance of so slight and trivial a nature.
upon thee. The glorious gods sit in hourly synod about thy
us. Only, thus far you shall answer: if you make your voyage upon
virginal palms of your daughters, or with the palsied
voluntary mute to my design. Be but duteous and true, preferment
vouching- and upon warrant of bloody affirmation- his to be more
wars for my money. I hope to see Romans as cheap as Volscians.
way home again.
we pay tribute? If Caesar can hide the sun from us with a blanket,
well appear'd by your tongue. What's the news in Rome? I have a
well cook'd.
well met, and most glad of your company.
well saved me a day's journey.
were desolation of gaolers and gallowses! I speak against my
were wealth enough for the purchase or merit for the gift; the
which I will be ever to pay and yet pay still.
which are often the sadness of parting, as the procuring of mirth.
which, as I say, to vex her I will execute in the clothes that
whilst he's in directitude.
who may, haply, be a little angry for my so rough usage; but my
who, like a block, hath denied my access to thee.
whom I commend to you as a noble friend of mine. How worthy he is
will.
willingly consented to his banishment, yet it was against our
with estimation.
with her husband. Your noble Tullus Aufidius will appear well in
with's hand, and turns up the white o' th' eye to his discourse.
without seeking find, and be embrac'd by a piece of tender air;
without the help of admiration, though the catalogue of his
would have run all out.
you have push'd out your gates the very defender of them, and in
you, sir, you know not which way you shall go.
your brace of unprizable estimations, the one is but frail and
your butterfly was a grub. This Marcius is grown from man to
your having. Back.
your lordship. You are most hot and furious when you win.
Enter CYMBELINE, BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, ARVIRAGUS, PISANIO, and Roman
captives. The CAPTAINS present POSTHUMUS to CYMBELINE, who delivers
A FRENCH GENTLEMAN, friend to Philario
A Gentleman, courtier.
A Norwegian Captain.
A Priest.
A ROMAN CAPTAIN
AEDILE. He's coming.
AEDILE. I have.
AEDILE. I have; 'tis ready.
AEDILE. I shall inform them.
AEDILE. List to your tribunes. Audience! peace, I say!
AEDILE. The people's enemy is gone, is gone!
AEDILE. Very well.
AEDILE. With old Menenius, and those senators
AEDILE. Worthy tribunes,
AEDILES. Peace, peace!
ALL THE PEOPLE. Tear him to pieces. Do it presently. He kill'd my
ALL. Amen, amen. God save thee, noble consul!
ALL. No, no; no man saw 'em.
ALL. Thanks, Jupiter!
ALL. Tribunes! patricians! citizens! What, ho! Sicinius!
ALL. Welcome, ladies, welcome!
APPARITIONS
ARVIRAGUS.   Nor th' all-dreaded thunder-stone;
ARVIRAGUS.   Thou hast finish'd joy and moan.
ARVIRAGUS. 'Tis true.
ARVIRAGUS. All gold and silver rather turn to dirt,
ARVIRAGUS. Ay, my good lord.
ARVIRAGUS. Be't so;
ARVIRAGUS. Brother, farewell.
ARVIRAGUS. By this sun that shines,
ARVIRAGUS. Fear no more the frown o' th' great;
ARVIRAGUS. Grow patience!
ARVIRAGUS. Hail, heaven!
ARVIRAGUS. How angel-like he sings!
ARVIRAGUS. I am weak with toil, yet strong in appetite.
ARVIRAGUS. I pray draw near.                            Exeunt
ARVIRAGUS. I'll make't my comfort
ARVIRAGUS. If it be sin to say so, sir, I yoke me
ARVIRAGUS. If you'll go fetch him,
ARVIRAGUS. In that he spake too far.
ARVIRAGUS. In this place we left them.
ARVIRAGUS. It is not likely
ARVIRAGUS. Let ordinance
ARVIRAGUS. Nobly he yokes
ARVIRAGUS. None in the world; you did mistake him, sure.
ARVIRAGUS. Nor no witchcraft charm thee!
ARVIRAGUS. Nothing ill come near thee!
ARVIRAGUS. O' th' floor;
ARVIRAGUS. One sand another
ARVIRAGUS. Or I, whate'er it be,
ARVIRAGUS. Poor sick Fidele!
ARVIRAGUS. Say, where shall's lay him?
ARVIRAGUS. So say I. Amen.
ARVIRAGUS. So. Begin.
ARVIRAGUS. Stark, as you see;
ARVIRAGUS. The bird is dead
ARVIRAGUS. The night to th' owl and morn to th' lark less welcome.
ARVIRAGUS. Thus did he answer me; yet said hereafter
ARVIRAGUS. We'll not be long away.
ARVIRAGUS. We'll speak it, then.
ARVIRAGUS. What pleasure, sir, find we in life, to lock it
ARVIRAGUS. What should we speak of
ARVIRAGUS. With fairest flowers,
ARVIRAGUS. Would I had done't,
ARVIRAGUS. You holp us, sir,
ARVIRAGUS. Your danger's ours.
ARVIRAGUS. Your health. [To BELARIUS] So please you, sir.
ARVIRAGUS. [To IMOGEN] Brother, stay here.
AUFIDIUS.  [Aside]  I am glad thou hast set thy mercy and thy
AUFIDIUS. -no more.
AUFIDIUS. All places yield to him ere he sits down,
AUFIDIUS. Ay, Marcius, Caius Marcius! Dost thou think
AUFIDIUS. Ay, traitor, Marcius.
AUFIDIUS. Do they still fly to th' Roman?
AUFIDIUS. Even so
AUFIDIUS. Go tell the lords o' th' city I am here;
AUFIDIUS. He approaches; you shall hear him.
AUFIDIUS. I cannot help it now,
AUFIDIUS. I have not deserv'd it.
AUFIDIUS. I know it;
AUFIDIUS. I know thee not. Thy name?
AUFIDIUS. I understand thee well; and be thou sure,
AUFIDIUS. I was mov'd withal.
AUFIDIUS. Insolent villain!
AUFIDIUS. My lords, when you shall know- as in this rage,
AUFIDIUS. My noble masters, hear me speak.
AUFIDIUS. My rage is gone,
AUFIDIUS. Name not the god, thou boy of tears-
AUFIDIUS. O Marcius, Marcius!
AUFIDIUS. Only their ends
AUFIDIUS. Read it not, noble lords;
AUFIDIUS. Say no more:
AUFIDIUS. Say, what's thy name?
AUFIDIUS. Sir, I cannot tell;
AUFIDIUS. That I would have spoken of.
AUFIDIUS. There was it;
AUFIDIUS. Therefore, most. absolute sir, if thou wilt have
AUFIDIUS. What is thy name?
AUFIDIUS. Whence com'st thou? What wouldst thou? Thy name?
AUFIDIUS. Where is this fellow?
AUFIDIUS. Why, noble lords,
AUFIDIUS. You keep a constant temper.
All. Our duty to your honour.
BELARIUS, a banished lord, disguised under the name of Morgan
BELARIUS. A goodly day not to keep house with such
BELARIUS. And shalt be ever.         Exit IMOGEN into the cave
BELARIUS. Be pleas'd awhile.
BELARIUS. Be silent; let's see further.
BELARIUS. Being scarce made up,
BELARIUS. Great griefs, I see, med'cine the less, for Cloten
BELARIUS. Have at it then by leave!
BELARIUS. He it is that hath
BELARIUS. He went hence even now.
BELARIUS. He wrings at some distress.
BELARIUS. Here's a few flowers; but 'bout midnight, more.
BELARIUS. How you speak!
BELARIUS. I am too blunt and saucy: here's my knee.
BELARIUS. I cannot tell; long is it since I saw him,
BELARIUS. I fear'twill be reveng'd.
BELARIUS. I had no mind
BELARIUS. I never saw
BELARIUS. Is not this boy reviv'd from death?
BELARIUS. It is great morning. Come, away! Who's there?
BELARIUS. It shall be so.
BELARIUS. Let us from it.
BELARIUS. Look, here he comes,
BELARIUS. My boys,
BELARIUS. My fault being nothing- as I have told you oft-
BELARIUS. My ingenious instrument!
BELARIUS. No company's abroad.
BELARIUS. No reason I, since of your lives you set
BELARIUS. No single soul
BELARIUS. Not too hot.
BELARIUS. Now for our mountain sport. Up to yond hill,
BELARIUS. O melancholy!
BELARIUS. O thou goddess,
BELARIUS. O, I am known
BELARIUS. Peace, peace! see further. He eyes us not; forbear.
BELARIUS. Pray be not sick,
BELARIUS. Prithee, fair youth,
BELARIUS. Sir,
BELARIUS. So sure as you your father's. I, old Morgan,
BELARIUS. Sons,
BELARIUS. Stand, stand! We have th' advantage of the ground;
BELARIUS. Stay, sir King.
BELARIUS. This is he,
BELARIUS. Those runagates?
BELARIUS. To th' field, to th' field!
BELARIUS. We are all undone.
BELARIUS. We will die all three;
BELARIUS. Well, 'tis done.
BELARIUS. What hast thou done?
BELARIUS. What's your name?
BELARIUS. What? how? how?
BELARIUS. Whither bound?
BELARIUS. You, Polydore, have prov'd best woodman and
BELARIUS. [Aside] O noble strain!
BELARIUS. [Looking into the cave] Stay, come not in.
BELARIUS. [To GUIDERIUS and ARVIRAGUS] Though you did love this
BELARIUS. [To IMOGEN] You are not well. Remain here in the cave;
BELARIUS. [Whispering] Hark, boys.
BELARIUS.. By Jupiter, an angel! or, if not,
BOTH TRIBUNES. Farewell, farewell.             Exeunt citizens
BOTH TRIBUNES. Say not we brought it.
BOTH TRIBUNES. Well, say. Peace, ho!
BOTH.      All lovers young, all lovers must
BOTH.      Quiet consummation have,
BOTH. In, in, in, in!                                   Exeunt
BOTH. What, what, what? Let's partake.
BOTH. Wherefore? wherefore?
BOY. 'A shall not tread on me!
BROTHERS. Help, Jupiter! or we appeal,
BRUTUS. AEdiles, seize him.
BRUTUS. And when such time they have begun to cry,
BRUTUS. Ay, spare us not. Say we read lectures to you,
BRUTUS. But is this true, sir?
BRUTUS. But since he hath
BRUTUS. By the consent of all we were establish'd
BRUTUS. Caius Marcius was
BRUTUS. Call't not a plot.
BRUTUS. Cominius, no.
BRUTUS. Could you not have told him-
BRUTUS. Did you perceive
BRUTUS. Dismiss them home.                         Exit AEDILE
BRUTUS. Enough, with over measure.
BRUTUS. Farewell, kind neighbours; we wish'd Coriolanus
BRUTUS. Get you hence instantly, and tell those friends
BRUTUS. Go about it.                               Exit AEDILE
BRUTUS. Go not home.
BRUTUS. Go see this rumourer whipp'd. It cannot be
BRUTUS. God-den to you all, god-den to you an.
BRUTUS. Has said enough.
BRUTUS. He consul!
BRUTUS. How accompanied?
BRUTUS. How? I inform them!
BRUTUS. I do not like this news.
BRUTUS. I talk of that that know it.
BRUTUS. I would he had.
BRUTUS. If it were so-
BRUTUS. In this point charge him home, that he affects
BRUTUS. It will be dangerous to go on- no further.
BRUTUS. Lay
BRUTUS. Lay hands upon him.
BRUTUS. Let them go on;
BRUTUS. Let's to the Capitol. Would half my wealth
BRUTUS. Manifest treason!
BRUTUS. Merely awry. When he did love his country,
BRUTUS. Not Possible.
BRUTUS. Not to them all.
BRUTUS. Not unlike
BRUTUS. Now we have shown our power,
BRUTUS. Only make trial what your love can do
BRUTUS. Or let us stand to our authority
BRUTUS. Pray, let's go.
BRUTUS. Rais'd only that the weaker sort may wish
BRUTUS. Say you ne'er had done't-
BRUTUS. Seize him, aediles.
BRUTUS. Sir, those cold ways,
BRUTUS. The aediles, ho!
BRUTUS. The gods have well prevented it, and Rome
BRUTUS. The people are incens'd against him.
BRUTUS. There's no more to be said, but he is banish'd,
BRUTUS. They have ta'en note of us; keep on your way.
BRUTUS. We pray the gods he may deserve your loves.
BRUTUS. We stay here for the people.
BRUTUS. We stood to't in good time. Is this Menenius?
BRUTUS. We'll hear no more.
BRUTUS. Well, well, we'll leave you.
BRUTUS. Why shall the people give
BRUTUS. Why?
BRUTUS. With a proud heart he wore
BRUTUS. You know the very road into his kindness
BRUTUS. You speak o' th' people
Ber. 'Tis here!
Ber. 'Tis now struck twelve. Get thee to bed, Francisco.
Ber. Have you had quiet guard?
Ber. He.
Ber. How now, Horatio? You tremble and look pale.
Ber. I have seen nothing.
Ber. I think it be no other but e'en so.
Ber. In the same figure, like the King that's dead.
Ber. It was about to speak, when the cock crew.
Ber. It would be spoke to.
Ber. Last night of all,
Ber. Long live the King!
Ber. Looks it not like the King? Mark it, Horatio.
Ber. Say-
Ber. See, it stalks away!
Ber. Sit down awhile,
Ber. Welcome, Horatio. Welcome, good Marcellus.
Ber. Well, good night.
Ber. Who's there.?
Bernardo, officer.
Both [Mar. and Ber.] We do, my lord.
Both. Arm'd, my lord.
Both. Longer, longer.
Both. My lord, from head to foot.
CAIUS LUCIUS, General of the Roman Forces
CAPTAIN. He's alive, my lord.
CAPTAIN. The Senate hath stirr'd up the confiners
CAPTAIN. To them the legions garrison'd in Gallia,
CAPTAIN. With the next benefit o' th' wind.
CITIZEN. And you.
CITIZEN. He is, and feasts the nobles of the state
CITIZEN. This here before you.
CITIZENS. Now the gods keep you!
CITIZENS. The gods preserve you both!
CITIZENS. will will so; almost all
CLOTEN, son to the Queen by a former husband
CLOTEN. 'His garment'!
CLOTEN. 'His garments'! Now the devil-
CLOTEN. 'Tis all the better;
CLOTEN. 'Tis certain she is fled.
CLOTEN. A gentleman.
CLOTEN. A stranger, and I not known on't?
CLOTEN. All-worthy villain!
CLOTEN. And that she should love this fellow, and refuse me!
CLOTEN. Art not afeard?
CLOTEN. Bring this apparel to my chamber; that is the second thing
CLOTEN. Cloten, thou villain.
CLOTEN. Come, I'll go see this Italian. What I have lost to-day at
CLOTEN. Come, I'll to my chamber. Would there had been some hurt
CLOTEN. Come, there's no more tribute to be paid. Our kingdom is
CLOTEN. Die the death.
CLOTEN. Do you call me fool?
CLOTEN. Give me thy hand; here's my purse. Hast any of thy late
CLOTEN. Good morrow, fairest sister. Your sweet hand.
CLOTEN. His majesty bids you welcome. Make pastime with us a day or
CLOTEN. How long is't since she went to Milford Haven?
CLOTEN. Humh!
CLOTEN. I am glad I was up so late, for that's the reason I was up
CLOTEN. I am near to th' place where they should meet, if Pisanio
CLOTEN. I am not vex'd more at anything in th' earth. A pox on't! I
CLOTEN. I cannot find those runagates; that villain
CLOTEN. I have assail'd her with musics, but she vouchsafes no
CLOTEN. I love and hate her; for she's fair and royal,
CLOTEN. I will inform your father.
CLOTEN. I would they had not come between us.
CLOTEN. I would this music would come. I am advised to give her
CLOTEN. I'll be reveng'd.
CLOTEN. If my shirt were bloody, then to shift it. Have I hurt him?
CLOTEN. If she be up, I'll speak with her; if not,
CLOTEN. Is it fit I went to look upon him? Is there no derogation
CLOTEN. It is Posthumus' hand; I know't. Sirrah, if thou wouldst
CLOTEN. It would make any man cold to lose.
CLOTEN. Leonatus? A banish'd rascal; and he's another, whatsoever
CLOTEN. Let's see't. I will pursue her
CLOTEN. Meet thee at Milford Haven! I forgot to ask him one thing;
CLOTEN. Nay, come, let's go together.
CLOTEN. No, I know that; but it is fit I should commit offence to
CLOTEN. Not easily, I think.
CLOTEN. Receive it friendly; but from this time forth
CLOTEN. Sayest thou?
CLOTEN. Senseless? Not so.
CLOTEN. Sirrah, is this letter true?
CLOTEN. Soft! What are you
CLOTEN. Still I swear I love you.
CLOTEN. That man of hers, Pisanio, her old servant,
CLOTEN. The first service thou dost me, fetch that suit hither. Let
CLOTEN. The south fog rot him!
CLOTEN. The villain would not stand me.
CLOTEN. There be many Caesars
CLOTEN. There is gold for you; sell me your good report.
CLOTEN. This is no answer.
CLOTEN. Thou art a robber,
CLOTEN. Thou injurious thief,
CLOTEN. Thou precious varlet,
CLOTEN. Thou villain base,
CLOTEN. To leave you in your madness 'twere my sin;
CLOTEN. To thy further fear,
CLOTEN. Was there ever man had such luck! When I kiss'd the jack,
CLOTEN. We do.
CLOTEN. We have yet many among us can gripe as hard as Cassibelan.
CLOTEN. When a gentleman is dispos'd to swear, it is not for any
CLOTEN. Where is she, sir? Come nearer.
CLOTEN. Where is thy lady? or, by Jupiter-
CLOTEN. Whoreson dog! I give him satisfaction? Would he had been
CLOTEN. Why, so I say.
CLOTEN. Wilt thou serve me? For since patiently and constantly thou
CLOTEN. Winning will put any man into courage. If I could get this
CLOTEN. Yes, and a gentlewoman's son.
CLOTEN. You have abus'd me.
CLOTEN. You sin against
CLOTEN. You'll go with us?
CLOTEN. Your lady's person; is she ready?
COMINIUS. 'Twas from the canon.
COMINIUS. Ag'd sir, hands off.
COMINIUS. Away! The tribunes do attend you. Arm yourself
COMINIUS. Ay; and you'll look pale
COMINIUS. But I fear
COMINIUS. But now 'tis odds beyond arithmetic,
COMINIUS. Come, come, we'll prompt you.
COMINIUS. Come, sir, along with us.
COMINIUS. Hath he not pass'd the noble and the common?
COMINIUS. He would not seem to know me.
COMINIUS. He'll never hear him.
COMINIUS. He'll shake
COMINIUS. Hear me, my masters and my common friends-
COMINIUS. I have been i' th' market-place; and, sir, 'tis fit
COMINIUS. I minded him how royal 'twas to pardon
COMINIUS. I offer'd to awaken his regard
COMINIUS. I tell you he does sit in gold, his eye
COMINIUS. I think 'twill serve, if he
COMINIUS. I'll follow thee a month, devise with the
COMINIUS. If!
COMINIUS. Know, I pray you-
COMINIUS. Let me speak.
COMINIUS. Nay, come away.
COMINIUS. O, ay, what else?
COMINIUS. O, you have made good work!
COMINIUS. That is the way to lay the city flat,
COMINIUS. The people are abus'd; set on. This palt'ring
COMINIUS. They are worn, Lord Consul, so
COMINIUS. Well, on to th' market-place.
COMINIUS. Well, well! No more.
COMINIUS. Who shall ask it?
COMINIUS. Y'are goodly things, you voices!
COMINIUS. Yet one time he did call me by my name.
COMINIUS. You are like to do such business.
COMINIUS. You have brought
COMINIUS. You have holp to ravish your own daughters and
COMINIUS. Your temples burned in their cement, and
CONSPIRATORS. Kill, kill, kill, kill, kill him!
CONSPIRATORS. Let him die for't.
CORIOLANUS.  [To the ladies]  Ay, by and by;
CORIOLANUS.  [Unmuffling]  If, Tullus,
CORIOLANUS. 'Shall'!
CORIOLANUS. A gentleman.
CORIOLANUS. A goodly city is this Antium. City,
CORIOLANUS. A goodly house. The feast smells well, but I
CORIOLANUS. A name unmusical to the Volscians' ears,
CORIOLANUS. Are these your herd?
CORIOLANUS. At Antium lives he?
CORIOLANUS. Aufidius, and you Volsces, mark; for we'll
CORIOLANUS. Away!
CORIOLANUS. Away!
CORIOLANUS. Ay, as an ostler, that for th' poorest piece
CORIOLANUS. Ay.
CORIOLANUS. Ay; 'tis an honester service than to meddle with thy
CORIOLANUS. Choler!
CORIOLANUS. Come, leave your tears; a brief farewell. The beast
CORIOLANUS. Cut me to pieces, Volsces; men and lads,
CORIOLANUS. Direct me, if it be your will,
CORIOLANUS. Fare ye well;
CORIOLANUS. First, hear me speak.
CORIOLANUS. Follow your function, go and batten on cold bits.
CORIOLANUS. For them! I cannot do it to the gods;
CORIOLANUS. Give me thy hand.
CORIOLANUS. Ha!
CORIOLANUS. Ha! What is that?
CORIOLANUS. Hail, lords! I am return'd your soldier;
CORIOLANUS. Have I had children's voices?
CORIOLANUS. Have you inform'd them sithence?
CORIOLANUS. Hear'st thou, Mars?
CORIOLANUS. Hence, old goat!
CORIOLANUS. Hence, rotten thing! or I shall shake thy bones
CORIOLANUS. How- traitor?
CORIOLANUS. How? What?
CORIOLANUS. How? no more!
CORIOLANUS. I am content.
CORIOLANUS. I beseech you, peace!
CORIOLANUS. I dare be sworn you were!
CORIOLANUS. I have deserv'd no better entertainment
CORIOLANUS. I muse my mother
CORIOLANUS. I wish I had a cause to seek him there,
CORIOLANUS. I would they were barbarians, as they are,
CORIOLANUS. I' th' city of kites and crows.
CORIOLANUS. I'll give my reasons,
CORIOLANUS. I'll know no further.
CORIOLANUS. Is this done?
CORIOLANUS. It is a purpos'd thing, and grows by plot,
CORIOLANUS. Let go.
CORIOLANUS. Let me but stand- I will not hurt your hearth.
CORIOLANUS. Let them hang.
CORIOLANUS. Let them pull all about mine ears, present me
CORIOLANUS. Like a dull actor now
CORIOLANUS. Marcius!
CORIOLANUS. May I change these garments?
CORIOLANUS. Measureless liar, thou hast made my heart
CORIOLANUS. Must I go show them my unbarb'd sconce? Must I
CORIOLANUS. My name is Caius Marcius, who hath done
CORIOLANUS. Nay, I prithee, woman-
CORIOLANUS. No, I serve not thy master.
CORIOLANUS. No, take more.
CORIOLANUS. No: I'll die here.
CORIOLANUS. Not of a woman's tenderness to be
CORIOLANUS. Now th' art troublesome.
CORIOLANUS. Now, as I live, I will.
CORIOLANUS. O mother, mother!
CORIOLANUS. O that I had him,
CORIOLANUS. On fair ground
CORIOLANUS. Pray be content.
CORIOLANUS. Prepare thy brow to frown- know'st thou me yet?
CORIOLANUS. Saw you Aufidius?
CORIOLANUS. Say then; 'tis true, I ought so.
CORIOLANUS. Scratches with briers,
CORIOLANUS. Shall I be charg'd no further than this present?
CORIOLANUS. Shall remain!
CORIOLANUS. So then the Volsces stand but as at first,
CORIOLANUS. Spoke he of me?
CORIOLANUS. Stand fast;
CORIOLANUS. Tell me of corn!
CORIOLANUS. Thank you, sir; farewell.             Exit CITIZEN
CORIOLANUS. That I'll straight do, and, knowing myself again,
CORIOLANUS. That's my brave boy.
CORIOLANUS. The fires i' th' lowest hell fold in the people!
CORIOLANUS. The god of soldiers,
CORIOLANUS. The noble sister of Publicola,
CORIOLANUS. The word is 'mildly.' Pray you let us go.
CORIOLANUS. These eyes are not the same I wore in Rome.
CORIOLANUS. This last old man,
CORIOLANUS. Thou wretch, despite o'erwhelm thee!
CORIOLANUS. Though there the people had more absolute pow'r-
CORIOLANUS. Traitor! How now?
CORIOLANUS. True, so I am.
CORIOLANUS. Tullus Aufidius, then, had made new head?
CORIOLANUS. Tush, tush!
CORIOLANUS. Under the canopy.
CORIOLANUS. We will before the walls of Rome to-morrow
CORIOLANUS. Well, I must do't.
CORIOLANUS. Well, mildly be it then- mildly.            Exeunt
CORIOLANUS. Well, what then, what then?
CORIOLANUS. What do you prate of service?
CORIOLANUS. What is the matter,
CORIOLANUS. What makes this change?
CORIOLANUS. What must I do?
CORIOLANUS. What's the matter?
CORIOLANUS. What's this?
CORIOLANUS. What, what, what!
CORIOLANUS. Where? At the Senate House?
CORIOLANUS. Which is his house, beseech you?
CORIOLANUS. Whoever gave that counsel to give forth
CORIOLANUS. Why force you this?
CORIOLANUS. Why then should I be consul? By yond clouds,
CORIOLANUS. Why, this was known before.
CORIOLANUS. Wife, mother, child, I know not. My affairs
CORIOLANUS. Worthy voices!
CORIOLANUS. YOU common cry of curs, whose breath I hate
CORIOLANUS. You bless me, gods!
CORIOLANUS. You!
CORNELIUS, a physician
CORNELIUS. By the Queen's dram she swallow'd.
CORNELIUS. First, she confess'd she never lov'd you; only
CORNELIUS. Hail, great King!
CORNELIUS. I humbly take my leave.                        Exit
CORNELIUS. More, sir, and worse. She did confess she had
CORNELIUS. O gods!
CORNELIUS. Pleaseth your Highness, ay. Here they are, madam.
CORNELIUS. The Queen, sir, very oft importun'd me
CORNELIUS. With horror, madly dying, like her life;
CORNELIUS. Your Highness
CORNELIUS. Your daughter, whom she bore in hand to love
CORNELIUS. [Aside] I do not like her. She doth think she has
CORNELIUS. [Aside] I do suspect you, madam;
CYMBELINE, King of Britain
CYMBELINE. A worthy fellow,
CYMBELINE. Again! and bring me word how 'tis with her.
CYMBELINE. All o'erjoy'd
CYMBELINE. All that belongs to this.
CYMBELINE. And thou shalt die for't.
CYMBELINE. Attend you here the door of our stern daughter?
CYMBELINE. Ay, with all my heart,
CYMBELINE. Bind the offender,
CYMBELINE. Bow your knees.
CYMBELINE. Come, stand thou by our side;
CYMBELINE. Did you e'er meet?
CYMBELINE. Does the world go round?
CYMBELINE. Guiderius had
CYMBELINE. He was a prince.
CYMBELINE. Heard you all this, her women?
CYMBELINE. Her doors lock'd?
CYMBELINE. How now, my flesh? my child?
CYMBELINE. How? me?
CYMBELINE. How? my issue?
CYMBELINE. I am sorry for thee.
CYMBELINE. I have surely seen him;
CYMBELINE. I know your master's pleasure, and he mine;
CYMBELINE. I stand on fire.
CYMBELINE. I thank you. Let's withdraw,
CYMBELINE. If this be so, the gods do mean to strike me
CYMBELINE. Laud we the gods;
CYMBELINE. Leave not the worthy Lucius, good my lords,
CYMBELINE. Lucius hath wrote already to the Emperor
CYMBELINE. Marry, the gods forfend!
CYMBELINE. Mine eyes
CYMBELINE. My daughter? What of her? Renew thy strength;
CYMBELINE. My lords, you are appointed for that office;
CYMBELINE. My tears that fall
CYMBELINE. Nay, let her languish
CYMBELINE. Nay, nay, to th' purpose.
CYMBELINE. New matter still?
CYMBELINE. No tidings of him?
CYMBELINE. Nobly doom'd!
CYMBELINE. Now for the counsel of my son and queen!
CYMBELINE. Now say, what would Augustus Caesar with us?
CYMBELINE. Nursing of my sons?
CYMBELINE. O disloyal thing,
CYMBELINE. O most delicate fiend!
CYMBELINE. O rare instinct!
CYMBELINE. O thou vile one!
CYMBELINE. O, she was naught, and long of her it was
CYMBELINE. O, what am I?
CYMBELINE. Our expectation that it would be thus
CYMBELINE. Our subjects, sir,
CYMBELINE. Past grace? obedience?
CYMBELINE. Prithee say.
CYMBELINE. Say then to Caesar,
CYMBELINE. She alone knew this;
CYMBELINE. Son, let your mother end.
CYMBELINE. Stand by my side, you whom the gods have made
CYMBELINE. Take him hence,
CYMBELINE. That diamond upon your finger, say
CYMBELINE. That mightst have had the sole son of my queen!
CYMBELINE. The exile of her minion is too new;
CYMBELINE. The forlorn soldier, that so nobly fought,
CYMBELINE. The time is troublesome.
CYMBELINE. The tune of Imogen!
CYMBELINE. This hath some seeming.
CYMBELINE. Thou art welcome, Caius.
CYMBELINE. Thou basest thing, avoid; hence from my sight
CYMBELINE. Thou foolish thing!
CYMBELINE. Thou took'st a beggar, wouldst have made my throne
CYMBELINE. Thou weep'st and speak'st.
CYMBELINE. Thou'rt my good youth, my page;
CYMBELINE. Thus far; and so farewell.
CYMBELINE. To my grief, I am
CYMBELINE. Well,
CYMBELINE. What of him? He is
CYMBELINE. What wouldst thou, boy?
CYMBELINE. What's this, Cornelius?
CYMBELINE. What, art thou mad?
CYMBELINE. Where is she, sir? How
CYMBELINE. Wherefore ey'st him so?
CYMBELINE. Who worse than a physician
CYMBELINE. Why, old soldier,
CYMBELINE. You must know,
Claudius, King of Denmark.
Cor., Volt. In that, and all things, will we show our duty.
Cornelius, courtier.
English Ambassadors.
FIRST BROTHER. Like hardiment Posthumus hath
FIRST BROTHER. When once he was mature for man,
FIRST CAPTAIN. Great Jupiter be prais'd! Lucius is taken.
FIRST CAPTAIN. So 'tis reported;
FIRST CITIZEN. For mine own part,
FIRST CITIZEN. He has our voices, sir.
FIRST CITIZEN. He shall well know
FIRST CITIZEN. I twice five hundred, and their friends to piece
FIRST CITIZEN. No, 'tis his kind of speech- he did not mock us.
FIRST CITIZEN. Ourselves, our wives, and children, on our knees
FIRST CITIZEN. The gods be good to us! Come, masters, let's home. I
FIRST CONSPIRATOR. How is it with our general?
FIRST CONSPIRATOR. So he did, my lord.
FIRST CONSPIRATOR. Your native town you enter'd like a post,
FIRST GAOLER. You shall not now be stol'n, you have locks upon you;
FIRST GENTLEMAN. He that hath lost her too. So is the Queen,
FIRST GENTLEMAN. He that hath miss'd the Princess is a thing
FIRST GENTLEMAN. His daughter, and the heir of's kingdom, whom
FIRST GENTLEMAN. His only child.
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Howsoe'er 'tis strange,
FIRST GENTLEMAN. I cannot delve him to the root; his father
FIRST GENTLEMAN. I do extend him, sir, within himself;
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Some twenty years.
FIRST GENTLEMAN. We must forbear; here comes the gentleman,
FIRST GENTLEMAN. You do not meet a man but frowns; our bloods
FIRST LORD. And grieve to hear't.
FIRST LORD. Bear from hence his body,
FIRST LORD. But not every man patient after the noble temper of
FIRST LORD. Day, my lord.
FIRST LORD. Did you hear of a stranger that's come to court
FIRST LORD. Hurt him! His body's a passable carcass if he be not
FIRST LORD. I'll attend your lordship.
FIRST LORD. O Tullus!
FIRST LORD. One of your lordship's pages.
FIRST LORD. Peace, both, and hear me speak.
FIRST LORD. Sir, I would advise you to shift a shirt; the violence
FIRST LORD. Sir, as I told you always, her beauty and her brain go
FIRST LORD. Stand you? You have land enough of your own; but he
FIRST LORD. There's an Italian come, and, 'tis thought, one of
FIRST LORD. What got he by that? You have broke his pate with your
FIRST LORD. Your lordship is the most patient man in loss, the most
FIRST PATRICIAN. You do the nobler.
FIRST SENATOR. Amen, amen!
FIRST SENATOR. Behold our patroness, the life of Rome!
FIRST SENATOR. No more words, we beseech you.
FIRST SENATOR. Noble Tribunes,
FIRST SENATOR. Not in this heat, sir, now.
FIRST SENATOR. Pray you let's to him.                   Exeunt
FIRST SENATOR. The gods forbid!
FIRST SENATOR. There's no remedy,
FIRST SENATOR. This is the tenour of the Emperor's writ:
FIRST SENATOR. To unbuild the city, and to lay all flat.
FIRST SENATOR. Tribunes, give way: he shall to th' market-place.
FIRST SENATOR. With those legions
FIRST SERVANT. A strange one as ever I look'd on. I cannot get him
FIRST SERVANT. Ay, and for an assault too.
FIRST SERVANT. Ay, and it makes men hate one another.
FIRST SERVANT. But more of thy news!
FIRST SERVANT. But when goes this forward?
FIRST SERVANT. Directitude? What's that?
FIRST SERVANT. He had so, looking as it were- Would I were hang'd,
FIRST SERVANT. He was too hard for him directly, to say the troth
FIRST SERVANT. Here's a strange alteration!
FIRST SERVANT. I think he is; but a greater soldier than he you wot
FIRST SERVANT. Let me have war, say I; it exceeds peace as far as
FIRST SERVANT. Nay, it's no matter for that.
FIRST SERVANT. Nay, not so neither; but I take him to be the
FIRST SERVANT. What an arm he has! He turn'd me about with his
FIRST SERVANT. What would you have, friend?
FIRST SERVANT. Why do you say 'thwack our general'?
FIRST SERVANT. Wine, wine, wine! What service is here! I think our
FIRST WATCH. A noble fellow, I warrant him.
FIRST WATCH. Be it so; go back. The virtue of your name
FIRST WATCH. Come, my captain knows you not.
FIRST WATCH. Do you hear how we are shent for keeping your
FIRST WATCH. Faith, sir, if you had told as many lies in his behalf
FIRST WATCH. From whence?
FIRST WATCH. My general cares not for you. Back, I say; go, lest I
FIRST WATCH. Now, sir, is your name Menenius?
FIRST WATCH. Stay. Whence are you?
FIRST WATCH. Then you should hate Rome, as he does. Can you, when
FIRST WATCH. YOU may not pass; you must return. Our general
FIRST WATCH. You are a Roman, are you?
FRENCHMAN. And then his banishment.
FRENCHMAN. Faith, yes, to be put to the arbitrement of swords, and
FRENCHMAN. I have seen him in France; we had very many there could
FRENCHMAN. Safely, I think. 'Twas a contention in public, which
FRENCHMAN. Sir, we have known together in Orleans.
FRENCHMAN. Sir, you o'errate my poor kindness. I was glad I did
FRENCHMAN. Will this hold, think you?
Fortinbras, Prince of Norway.
Fran. Bernardo hath my place.
Fran. Bernardo?
Fran. For this relief much thanks. 'Tis bitter cold,
Fran. Give you good night.
Fran. I think I hear them. Stand, ho! Who is there?
Fran. Nay, answer me. Stand and unfold yourself.
Fran. Not a mouse stirring.
Fran. You come most carefully upon your hour.
Francisco, a soldier
GAOLER. A heavy reckoning for you, sir. But the comfort is, you
GAOLER. Come, sir, are you ready for death?
GAOLER. Hanging is the word, sir; if you be ready for that, you are
GAOLER. I'll be hang'd then.
GAOLER. Indeed, sir, he that sleeps feels not the toothache. But a
GAOLER. Unless a man would marry a gallows and beget young gibbets,
GAOLER. What an infinite mock is this, that a man should have the
GAOLER. Your death has eyes in's head, then; I have not seen him so
GUIDERIUS and ARVIRAGUS, sons to Cymbeline, disguised under the
GUIDERIUS and ARVIRAGUS. Stand, stand, and fight!
GUIDERIUS. A most incivil one. The wrongs he did me
GUIDERIUS. A thing
GUIDERIUS. And at first meeting lov'd,
GUIDERIUS. And our good his.
GUIDERIUS. But his neat cookery! He cut our roots in characters,
GUIDERIUS. But we saw him dead.
GUIDERIUS. By good Euriphile, our mother.
GUIDERIUS. By heavens, I'll go!
GUIDERIUS. Cadwal,
GUIDERIUS. Cloten, thou double villain, be thy name,
GUIDERIUS. Come on, then, and remove him.
GUIDERIUS. Fear no more the heat o' th' sun
GUIDERIUS. Fear no more the lightning flash,
GUIDERIUS. Fear not slander, censure rash;
GUIDERIUS. Ghost unlaid forbear thee!
GUIDERIUS. Go you to hunting; I'll abide with him.
GUIDERIUS. Hail, heaven!
GUIDERIUS. He is but one; you and my brother search
GUIDERIUS. Hence, then, and thank
GUIDERIUS. I am perfect what: cut off one Cloten's head,
GUIDERIUS. I am thoroughly weary.
GUIDERIUS. I could not stir him.
GUIDERIUS. I do note
GUIDERIUS. I have spoke it, and I did it.
GUIDERIUS. I love thee; I have spoke it.
GUIDERIUS. I'm sorry for't; not seeming
GUIDERIUS. Is he at home?
GUIDERIUS. Let me end the story:
GUIDERIUS. Money, youth?
GUIDERIUS. Nay, Cadwal, we must lay his head to th' East;
GUIDERIUS. Nay, what hope
GUIDERIUS. No exorciser harm thee!
GUIDERIUS. No, nor thy tailor, rascal,
GUIDERIUS. O sweetest, fairest lily!
GUIDERIUS. Out of your proof you speak. We, poor unfledg'd,
GUIDERIUS. Pray draw near.
GUIDERIUS. Pray you fetch him hither.
GUIDERIUS. Prithee have done,
GUIDERIUS. Than be so,
GUIDERIUS. The noise is round about us.
GUIDERIUS. The same dead thing alive.
GUIDERIUS. There is cold meat i' th' cave; we'll browse on that
GUIDERIUS. This Cloten was a fool, an empty purse;
GUIDERIUS. This is sure Fidele.
GUIDERIUS. This is, sir, a doubt
GUIDERIUS. Those that I reverence, those I fear- the wise:
GUIDERIUS. To who? To thee? What art thou? Have not I
GUIDERIUS. Uncertain favour!
GUIDERIUS. We have done our obsequies. Come, lay him down.
GUIDERIUS. Were you a woman, youth,
GUIDERIUS. What does he mean? Since death of my dear'st mother
GUIDERIUS. What's the matter, sir?
GUIDERIUS. What's thy name?
GUIDERIUS. Where's my brother?
GUIDERIUS. Where?
GUIDERIUS. Why, he but sleeps.
GUIDERIUS. Why, worthy father, what have we to lose
GUIDERIUS. With his own sword,
GUIDERIUS. Would I could free't!
Getrude, Queen of Denmark, mother to Hamlet.
Ghost of Hamlet's Father.
Guildenstern, courtier.
HELEN, a lady attending on Imogen
Ham. 'Tis very strange.
Ham. And fix'd his eyes upon you?
Ham. Arm'd, say you?
Ham. Ay, madam, it is common.
Ham. But where was this?
Ham. Did you not speak to it?
Ham. For God's love let me hear!
Ham. From top to toe?
Ham. He was a man, take him for all in all.
Ham. His beard was grizzled- no?
Ham. I am glad to see you well.
Ham. I am very glad to see you.- [To Bernardo] Good even, sir.-
Ham. I prithee do not mock me, fellow student.
Ham. I shall in all my best obey you, madam.
Ham. I will watch to-night.
Ham. I would I had been there.
Ham. I would not hear your enemy say so,
Ham. If it assume my noble father's person,
Ham. In my mind's eye, Horatio.
Ham. Indeed, indeed, sirs. But this troubles me.
Ham. Not so, my lord. I am too much i' th' sun.
Ham. O that this too too solid flesh would melt,
Ham. Pale or red?
Ham. Saw? who?
Ham. Seems, madam, Nay, it is. I know not 'seems.'
Ham. Sir, my good friend- I'll change that name with you.
Ham. The King my father?
Ham. Then saw you not his face?
Ham. Thrift, thrift, Horatio! The funeral bak'd meats
Ham. Very like, very like. Stay'd it long?
Ham. What, look'd he frowningly.
Ham. Your loves, as mine to you. Farewell.
Ham. [aside] A little more than kin, and less than kind!
Hamlet, son to the former, and nephew to the present king.
Hor. 'Tis here!
Hor. A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
Hor. A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye.
Hor. A piece of him.
Hor. A truant disposition, good my lord.
Hor. And then it started, like a guilty thing
Hor. As I do live, my honour'd lord, 'tis true;
Hor. As thou art to thyself.
Hor. Before my God, I might not this believe
Hor. Do, if it will not stand.
Hor. Friends to this ground.
Hor. Hail to your lordship!
Hor. I saw him once. He was a goodly king.
Hor. I warr'nt it will.
Hor. In what particular thought to work I know not;
Hor. Indeed, my lord, it followed hard upon.
Hor. It was, as I have seen it in his life,
Hor. It would have much amaz'd you.
Hor. Most constantly.
Hor. Most like. It harrows me with fear and wonder.
Hor. My lord, I came to see your father's funeral.
Hor. My lord, I did;
Hor. My lord, I think I saw him yesternight.
Hor. My lord, the King your father.
Hor. Nay, very pale.
Hor. Not when I saw't.
Hor. O, where, my lord?
Hor. O, yes, my lord! He wore his beaver up.
Hor. Season your admiration for a while
Hor. So have I heard and do in part believe it.
Hor. Stay! Speak, speak! I charge thee speak!
Hor. That can I.
Hor. The same, my lord, and your poor servant ever.
Hor. Tush, tush, 'twill not appear.
Hor. Two nights together had these gentlemen
Hor. Well, sit we down,
Hor. What art thou that usurp'st this time of night
Hor. While one with moderate haste might tell a hundred.
Horatio, friend to Hamlet.
IACHIMO,  Italian, friend to Philario
IACHIMO. 'Tis their fresh supplies.
IACHIMO. 'Tis very like.
IACHIMO. All too soon I shall,
IACHIMO. And himself. Not I
IACHIMO. As fair and as good- a kind of hand-in-hand comparison-
IACHIMO. Ay, and the approbation of those that weep this lamentable
IACHIMO. Ay, madam, with his eyes in flood with laughter.
IACHIMO. Believe it, sir, I have seen him in Britain. He was then
IACHIMO. By Jupiter, I had it from her arm!
IACHIMO. By the gods, it is one. If I bring you no sufficient
IACHIMO. Can we, with manners, ask what was the difference?
IACHIMO. Change you, madam?
IACHIMO. Either your unparagon'd mistress is dead, or she's
IACHIMO. Exceeding pleasant; none a stranger there
IACHIMO. First, her bedchamber,
IACHIMO. Good sir, we must,
IACHIMO. Had I this cheek
IACHIMO. He sits 'mongst men like a descended god:
IACHIMO. He was expected then,
IACHIMO. Here are letters for you.
IACHIMO. I am glad to be constrain'd to utter that
IACHIMO. I am the master of my speeches, and would undergo what's
IACHIMO. I dare thereupon pawn the moiety of my estate to your
IACHIMO. I never saw him sad.
IACHIMO. I'll be sworn-
IACHIMO. I'll deny nothing.
IACHIMO. If I have lost it,
IACHIMO. If you seek
IACHIMO. It cannot be i' th' eye, for apes and monkeys,
IACHIMO. Lamentable! What,
IACHIMO. Let me my service tender on your lips.
IACHIMO. More particulars
IACHIMO. My humble thanks. I had almost forgot
IACHIMO. Not a whit,
IACHIMO. Not he; but yet heaven's bounty towards him might
IACHIMO. O dearest soul, your cause doth strike my heart
IACHIMO. O happy Leonatus! I may say
IACHIMO. O, I must, madam.
IACHIMO. She writes so to you, doth she?
IACHIMO. Should he make me
IACHIMO. Sir, my circumstances,
IACHIMO. Sir- I thank her- that.
IACHIMO. Some dozen Romans of us, and your lord-
IACHIMO. Thanks, fairest lady.
IACHIMO. Thanks, madam; well.- Beseech you, sir,
IACHIMO. That lady is not now living, or this gentleman's opinion,
IACHIMO. That others do,
IACHIMO. That paragon, thy daughter,
IACHIMO. The chimney
IACHIMO. The cloyed will-
IACHIMO. The crickets sing, and man's o'er-labour'd sense
IACHIMO. The heaviness and guilt within my bosom
IACHIMO. The roof o' th' chamber
IACHIMO. Then, if you can,                [Shows the bracelet]
IACHIMO. They are in a trunk,
IACHIMO. This matter of marrying his king's daughter, wherein he
IACHIMO. Thou'lt torture me to leave unspoken that
IACHIMO. Two creatures heartily.
IACHIMO. Upon a time- unhappy was the clock
IACHIMO. Well, madam.
IACHIMO. What do you esteem it at?
IACHIMO. What's that?
IACHIMO. Which the gods have given you?
IACHIMO. Will you hear more?
IACHIMO. With all my heart.                             Exeunt
IACHIMO. With five times so much conversation I should get ground
IACHIMO. Would I had put my estate and my neighbour's on th'
IACHIMO. Yes, I beseech; or I shall short my word
IACHIMO. You are a friend, and therein the wiser. If you buy
IACHIMO. You may wear her in title yours; but you know strange fowl
IACHIMO. You must not so far prefer her fore ours of Italy.
IACHIMO. Your daughter's chastity- there it begins.
IACHIMO. Your hand- a covenant! We will have these things set down
IACHIMO. Your lady
IACHIMO. Yours, whom in constancy you think stands so safe. I will
IACHIMO. [Aside] All of her that is out of door most rich!
IACHIMO. [Kneeling] I am down again;
IMOGEN, daughter to Cymbeline by a former queen
IMOGEN. 'Mongst friends,
IMOGEN. A father cruel and a step-dame false;
IMOGEN. About some half-hour hence,
IMOGEN. All's well, sir; take my pow'r i' th' court for yours.
IMOGEN. Almost, sir. Heaven restore me! Would I were
IMOGEN. Am I one, sir?
IMOGEN. Amen. I thank thee.                   Exeunt severally
IMOGEN. As I am mad, I do;
IMOGEN. Away! I do condemn mine ears that have
IMOGEN. Ay, I said so, sir.
IMOGEN. But that you shall not say I yield, being silent,
IMOGEN. Continues well my lord? His health beseech you?
IMOGEN. Do't, and to bed then.
IMOGEN. False to his bed? What is it to be false?
IMOGEN. Fidele, sir.
IMOGEN. Fidele, sir.
IMOGEN. Fidele, sir. I have a kinsman who
IMOGEN. Fools are not mad folks.
IMOGEN. Good masters, harm me not.
IMOGEN. Good morrow, sir. You lay out too much pains
IMOGEN. He is a Roman, no more kin to me
IMOGEN. He never can meet more mischance than come
IMOGEN. How now, Pisanio!
IMOGEN. I am nothing; or if not,
IMOGEN. I am sorry for't, my lord.
IMOGEN. I am sprited with a fool;
IMOGEN. I beseech you, sir,
IMOGEN. I did not take my leave of him, but had
IMOGEN. I false! Thy conscience witness! Iachimo,
IMOGEN. I have read three hours then. Mine eyes are weak;
IMOGEN. I hope so. Go and search.                 Exit PISANIO
IMOGEN. I humbly thank your Highness.
IMOGEN. I pray you, sir,
IMOGEN. I see a man's life is a tedious one.
IMOGEN. I see before me, man. Nor here, nor here,
IMOGEN. I see you're angry.
IMOGEN. I thank you for your pains.
IMOGEN. I will write.
IMOGEN. I wish ye sport.
IMOGEN. I would have broke mine eyestrings, crack'd them but
IMOGEN. I would thou grew'st unto the shores o' th' haven,
IMOGEN. I'll follow, sir. But first, an't please the gods,
IMOGEN. I'll tell you, sir, in private, if you please
IMOGEN. If you but said so, 'twere as deep with me.
IMOGEN. Is he dispos'd to mirth? I hope he is.
IMOGEN. It poison'd me.
IMOGEN. Let me hear no more.
IMOGEN. Most like I did, for I was dead.
IMOGEN. Most like-
IMOGEN. My boon is that this gentleman may render
IMOGEN. My good master,
IMOGEN. My lord, I fear,
IMOGEN. Nay, be brief;
IMOGEN. Nay, stay a little.
IMOGEN. No court, no father, nor no more ado
IMOGEN. No, my lord;
IMOGEN. No, no! Alack,
IMOGEN. No; I rather added
IMOGEN. Not he, I hope.
IMOGEN. O blessed that I might not! I chose an eagle,
IMOGEN. O dissembling courtesy! How fine this tyrant
IMOGEN. O the gods!
IMOGEN. O! for such means,
IMOGEN. O, get thee from my sight;
IMOGEN. O, no, no.
IMOGEN. Past hope, and in despair; that way past grace.
IMOGEN. Peace, my lord. Hear, hear!
IMOGEN. Pray what is't?
IMOGEN. Profane fellow!
IMOGEN. Reveng'd?
IMOGEN. Richard du Champ. [Aside] If I do lie, and do
IMOGEN. Senseless linen, happier therein than I!
IMOGEN. Sir,
IMOGEN. So man and man should be;
IMOGEN. So sick I am not, yet I am not well;
IMOGEN. Some Roman courtezan!
IMOGEN. Talk thy tongue weary- speak.
IMOGEN. Thanks, good sir.
IMOGEN. Thanks, sir.
IMOGEN. That headless man
IMOGEN. Then wav'd his handkerchief?
IMOGEN. There cannot be a pinch in death
IMOGEN. Those things I bid you do, get them dispatch'd.
IMOGEN. Thou art all the comfort
IMOGEN. Thou shouldst have made him
IMOGEN. Thou told'st me, when we came from horse, the place
IMOGEN. To Dorothy my woman hie thee presently.
IMOGEN. To Milford Haven.
IMOGEN. True honest men being heard, like false Aeneas,
IMOGEN. Well, or ill,
IMOGEN. What do you pity, sir?
IMOGEN. What ho, Pisanio!
IMOGEN. What hour is it?
IMOGEN. What is the matter, trow?
IMOGEN. What makes your admiration?
IMOGEN. What, dear sir,
IMOGEN. When he was here
IMOGEN. Where then?
IMOGEN. Wherefore then
IMOGEN. Who's there? My woman? Helen?
IMOGEN. Who? thy lord? That is my lord- Leonatus?
IMOGEN. Why did you throw your wedded lady from you?
IMOGEN. Why, I must die;
IMOGEN. Why, good fellow,
IMOGEN. Why, one that rode to's execution, man,
IMOGEN. Will my lord say so?
IMOGEN. Willingly;
IMOGEN. You are my father too, and did relieve me
IMOGEN. You do seem to know
IMOGEN. You make amends.
IMOGEN. Your mother too.
IMOGEN. Your son's my father's friend; he takes his part
IMOGEN. [Aside] Great men,
IMOGEN. [Aside] These are kind creatures. Gods, what lies I have
IMOGEN. [Awaking] Yes, sir, to Milford Haven. Which is the way?
IMOGEN. [Kneeling] Your blessing, sir.
IMOGEN. [Reads] 'He is one of the noblest note, to whose
IMOGEN. [Reads] 'Thy mistress, Pisanio, hath play'd the strumpet in
JUPITER. No more, you petty spirits of region low,
King. 'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature, Hamlet,
King. Have you your father's leave? What says Polonius?
King. How is it that the clouds still hang on you?
King. Take thy fair hour, Laertes. Time be thine,
King. Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother's death
King. We doubt it nothing. Heartily farewell.
King. Why, 'tis a loving and a fair reply.
LADY. Almost midnight, madam.
LADY. Ay,
LADY. How? My good name? or to report of you
LADY. I, madam.
LADY. No more?
LADY. Please you, madam.
LADY. That's more
LADY. The Queen, madam,
LADY. We did, so please your Highness.
LADY. Who's there that knocks?
LARTIUS. At Antium.
LARTIUS. He did, my lord.
LARTIUS. He had, my lord; and that it was which caus'd
LARTIUS. How often he had met you, sword to sword;
LARTIUS. On safeguard he came to me, and did curse
LIEUTENANT. I do not know what witchcraft's in him, but
LIEUTENANT. Sir, I beseech you, think you he'll carry Rome?
LIEUTENANT. Yet I wish, sir-
LORD. Cam'st thou from where they made the stand?
LORD. Farewell; you're angry.                             Exit
LORD. Good my liege,
LORD. Good my liege,
LORD. I did.
LORD. Nay, be not angry, sir.
LORD. So please your Majesty,
LORD. This was strange chance:
LORD. Where was this lane?
LORDS. Hold, hold, hold, hold!
LORDS. We have.
LORDS. You are most welcome home.
LUCIUS the Roman, comes to Milford Haven
LUCIUS. 'Lack, good youth!
LUCIUS. Away, boy, from the troops, and save thyself;
LUCIUS. Ay, good youth;
LUCIUS. But what from Rome?
LUCIUS. Consider, sir, the chance of war. The day
LUCIUS. Dream often so,
LUCIUS. Happy be you!
LUCIUS. He'll then instruct us of this body. Young one,
LUCIUS. I am sorry, Cymbeline,
LUCIUS. I do not bid thee beg my life, good lad,
LUCIUS. It is a day turn'd strangely. Or betimes
LUCIUS. Let proof speak.
LUCIUS. Philarmonus!
LUCIUS. Read, and declare the meaning.
LUCIUS. Sir, the event
LUCIUS. So, sir.
LUCIUS. So, sir. I desire of you
LUCIUS. Thanks, royal sir.
LUCIUS. The boy disdains me,
LUCIUS. This forwardness
LUCIUS. Thou dost approve thyself the very same;
LUCIUS. Thy name?
LUCIUS. When Julius Caesar- whose remembrance yet
LUCIUS. When expect you them?
LUCIUS. Your hand, my lord.
Laer. For Hamlet, and the trifling of his favour,
Laer. My dread lord,
Laer. My necessaries are embark'd. Farewell.
Laer. O, fear me not!
Laer. Think it no more.
Laertes, son to Polonius.
Lords, Ladies, Roman Senators, Tribunes, a Soothsayer, a
Lords, ladies, Officers, Soldiers, Sailors, Messengers, Attendants.
MENENIUS. 'Tis Aufidius,
MENENIUS. 'Tis true;
MENENIUS. A good demand.
MENENIUS. A noble wish.
MENENIUS. All's well, and might have been much better
MENENIUS. And so are like to do.
MENENIUS. As Hercules
MENENIUS. Ay, but mildly.
MENENIUS. Be calm, be calm.
MENENIUS. Be gone.
MENENIUS. Be that you seem, truly your country's friend,
MENENIUS. Calmly, I do beseech you.
MENENIUS. Cannot be!
MENENIUS. Come, come, peace.
MENENIUS. Come, come, you have been too rough, something too rough;
MENENIUS. Come, enough.
MENENIUS. Consider further,
MENENIUS. Consider this: he has been bred i' th' wars
MENENIUS. Do not cry havoc, where you should but hunt
MENENIUS. Do you hear?
MENENIUS. Down with that sword! Tribunes, withdraw awhile.
MENENIUS. Fie, fie, fie!
MENENIUS. Fie, fie, fie!                                  Exit
MENENIUS. For 'tis a sore upon us
MENENIUS. For one poor grain or two!
MENENIUS. From Rome.
MENENIUS. Go, get you to your house; be gone, away.
MENENIUS. Good faith, I'll prove him,
MENENIUS. Good my friends,
MENENIUS. Hail to you both!
MENENIUS. Has he din'd, canst thou tell? For I would not speak with
MENENIUS. Hear me one word; beseech you, Tribunes,
MENENIUS. Hear me speak.
MENENIUS. Help Marcius, help,
MENENIUS. Here comes the clusters.
MENENIUS. His nature is too noble for the world:
MENENIUS. How! Was't we? We lov'd him, but, like beasts
MENENIUS. How! away!
MENENIUS. I am as thy general is.
MENENIUS. I could myself
MENENIUS. I mean thy general.
MENENIUS. I neither care for th' world nor your general; for such
MENENIUS. I paint him in the character. Mark what mercy his mother
MENENIUS. I tell thee, fellow,
MENENIUS. I think not so.
MENENIUS. I would they were in Tiber.
MENENIUS. I'll bring him to you.
MENENIUS. I'll keep you company. Will you along?
MENENIUS. I'll undertake't;
MENENIUS. If it be possible for you to displace it with your little
MENENIUS. If, by the tribunes' leave, and yours, good people,
MENENIUS. Is this the promise that you made your mother?
MENENIUS. Let's be calm.
MENENIUS. Lo, citizens, he says he is content.
MENENIUS. Nay, I hear nothing; his mother and his wife
MENENIUS. Nay, but fellow, fellow-
MENENIUS. Nay, temperately! Your promise.
MENENIUS. No, I'll not go. You hear what he hath said
MENENIUS. No, in such a case the gods will not be good unto us.
MENENIUS. No; I'll not meddle.
MENENIUS. Noble lady!
MENENIUS. Not now, not now.
MENENIUS. Now the good gods forbid
MENENIUS. Now, you companion, I'll say an errand for you; you shall
MENENIUS. O, he's a limb that has but a disease-
MENENIUS. On both sides more respect.
MENENIUS. One word more, one word
MENENIUS. Only fair speech.
MENENIUS. Peace, peace, be not so loud.
MENENIUS. Pray now, your news?
MENENIUS. Pray you be gone.
MENENIUS. Prithee, fellow, remember my name is Menenius, always
MENENIUS. Repent what you have spoke.
MENENIUS. Return to th' tribunes.
MENENIUS. See you yond coign o' th' Capitol, yond cornerstone?
MENENIUS. Shall it be put to that?
MENENIUS. Sir, sir-
MENENIUS. Sirrah, if thy captain knew I were here, he would use me
MENENIUS. So did he me; and he no more remembers his mother now
MENENIUS. That's worthily
MENENIUS. The consul Coriolanus.
MENENIUS. The matter?
MENENIUS. There is differency between a grub and a butterfly; yet
MENENIUS. This but done
MENENIUS. This is good news.
MENENIUS. This is unlikely.
MENENIUS. Very well.
MENENIUS. We are all undone unless
MENENIUS. Well said, noble woman!
MENENIUS. Well, and say that Marcius
MENENIUS. Well, no more.
MENENIUS. Well, well, no more of that.
MENENIUS. What is about to be? I am out of breath;
MENENIUS. What news? what news?
MENENIUS. What should I do?
MENENIUS. What's the news? What's the news?
MENENIUS. What, what? his choler?
MENENIUS. Why, so! You have made good work.
MENENIUS. You guard like men, 'tis well; but, by your leave,
MENENIUS. You have made
MENENIUS. You have made good work,
MENENIUS. You have stood your limitation, and the tribunes
MENENIUS. You have told them home,
MENENIUS. You worthy Tribunes-
MESSENGER. Almost at point to enter.
MESSENGER. It is spoke freely out of many mouths-
MESSENGER. Knock off his manacles; bring your prisoner to the King.
MESSENGER. Please you, sir,
MESSENGER. Sir, if you'd save your life, fly to your house.
MESSENGER. So like you, sir, ambassadors from Rome;
MESSENGER. The nobles in great earnestness are going
MESSENGER. Yes, worthy sir,
MOTHER.   Lucina lent not me her aid,
MOTHER.   Since, Jupiter, our son is good,
MOTHER.   With marriage wherefore was he mock'd,
Mar. 'Tis gone and will not answer.
Mar. 'Tis gone!
Mar. And liegemen to the Dane.
Mar. Good now, sit down, and tell me he that knows,
Mar. Holla, Bernardo!
Mar. Horatio says 'tis but our fantasy,
Mar. Is it not like the King?
Mar. It faded on the crowing of the cock.
Mar. It is offended.
Mar. My good lord!
Mar. My lord, upon the platform where we watch'd.
Mar. O, farewell, honest soldier.
Mar. Peace! break thee off! Look where it comes again!
Mar. Question it, Horatio.
Mar. Shall I strike at it with my partisan?
Mar. Thou art a scholar; speak to it, Horatio.
Mar. Thus twice before, and jump at this dead hour,
Mar. What, has this thing appear'd again to-night?
Marcellus, Officer.
Marcellus, officer.
Oph. Do you doubt that?
Oph. I shall th' effect of this good lesson keep
Oph. No more but so?
Ophelia, daughter to Polonius.
Osric, courtier.
PATRICIANS. I would they were a-bed.
PATRICIANS. Peace, peace, peace; stay, hold, peace!
PATRICIANS. This man has marr'd his fortune.
PATRICIANS. We'll surety him.
PHILARIO, Italian, friend to Posthumus
PHILARIO. Gentlemen, enough of this. It came in too suddenly; let
PHILARIO. Have patience, sir,
PHILARIO. His father and I were soldiers together, to whom I have
PHILARIO. I will have it no lay.
PHILARIO. Let us leave here, gentlemen.
PHILARIO. Quite besides
PHILARIO. See! Iachimo!
PHILARIO. Signior Iachimo will not from it. Pray let us follow 'em.
PHILARIO. Sir, be patient;
PHILARIO. Was Caius Lucius in the Britain court
PHILARIO. Welcome, sir.
PHILARIO. What means do you make to him?
PHILARIO. You speak of him when he was less furnish'd than now he
PHILARIO. Your very goodness and your company
PISANIO, servant to Posthumus
PISANIO. 'Twill not be lost.
PISANIO. Alas, good lady!
PISANIO. Alas, my lord,
PISANIO. And kiss'd it, madam.
PISANIO. And shall do.
PISANIO. Ay, my noble lord.
PISANIO. Be assur'd, madam,
PISANIO. But to win time
PISANIO. First, make yourself but like one.
PISANIO. Good madam, hear me.
PISANIO. He hath been search'd among the dead and living,
PISANIO. Hence, vile instrument!
PISANIO. How fares my mistress?
PISANIO. How? of adultery? Wherefore write you not
PISANIO. I am most glad
PISANIO. I have, my lord, at my lodging, the same suit he wore when
PISANIO. I heard no letter from my master since
PISANIO. I humbly thank your Highness.
PISANIO. I shall, my lord.                                Exit
PISANIO. I was going, sir,
PISANIO. I'll wake mine eyeballs first.
PISANIO. If not at court,
PISANIO. If you'll back to th' court-
PISANIO. It was: his queen, his queen!
PISANIO. Lady,
PISANIO. Madam, I shall.                                Exeunt
PISANIO. Madam, a noble gentleman of Rome
PISANIO. Madam, here is a letter from my lord.
PISANIO. Madam, so I did.
PISANIO. Madam, you're best consider.
PISANIO. My lord your son drew on my master.
PISANIO. My lord,
PISANIO. No, madam; for so long
PISANIO. No, on my life!
PISANIO. Not so, neither;
PISANIO. O gentlemen, help!
PISANIO. O good my lord!
PISANIO. O gracious lady,
PISANIO. O my all-worthy lord!
PISANIO. On his command. He would not suffer me
PISANIO. One score 'twixt sun and sun,
PISANIO. Please you read,
PISANIO. She can scarce be there yet.
PISANIO. Sir, I will.
PISANIO. Sir, as I think.
PISANIO. Sir, my life is yours;
PISANIO. Then, madam,
PISANIO. Then, sir,
PISANIO. There might have been,
PISANIO. Thou bid'st me to my loss; for true to thee
PISANIO. Wake, my mistress!
PISANIO. Well then, here's the point:
PISANIO. Well, madam, we must take a short farewell,
PISANIO. Well, my good lord.
PISANIO. What shall I need to draw my sword? The paper
PISANIO. [Aside] I'll write to my lord she's dead. O Imogen,
PISANIO. [Aside] It is my mistress.
PISANIO. [Aside] Or this or perish.
PLEBEIANS. Come, come, let's see him out at gates; come!
PLEBEIANS. Down with him, down with him!
PLEBEIANS. Faith, we hear fearful news.
PLEBEIANS. He shall, sure on't.
PLEBEIANS. It shall be so, it shall be so! Let him away!
PLEBEIANS. It shall be so, it shall be so.
PLEBEIANS. Let's hear our tribune. Peace! Speak, speak, speak.
PLEBEIANS. No, no, no, no, no.
PLEBEIANS. Our enemy is banish'd, he is gone! Hoo-oo!
PLEBEIANS. To th' rock, to th' rock, with him!
PLEBEIANS. True,
PLEBEIANS. Yield, Marcius, yield.
PLEBEIANS. You so remain.
POSTHUMUS LEONATUS, a gentleman, husband to Imogen
POSTHUMUS. 'Lack, to what end?
POSTHUMUS. A Roman,
POSTHUMUS. A repulse; though your attempt, as you call it, deserve
POSTHUMUS. Agreed.                Exeunt POSTHUMUS and IACHIMO
POSTHUMUS. Alack, the King!
POSTHUMUS. All is well yet.
POSTHUMUS. And therewithal the best; or let her beauty
POSTHUMUS. Ay, and it doth confirm
POSTHUMUS. Being so far provok'd as I was in France, I would abate
POSTHUMUS. By your pardon, sir. I was then a young traveller;
POSTHUMUS. Close by the battle, ditch'd, and wall'd with turf,
POSTHUMUS. Fear it not, sir; I would I were so sure
POSTHUMUS. Hang there like fruit, my soul,
POSTHUMUS. Hark you, he swears; by Jupiter he swears.
POSTHUMUS. How comes these staggers on me?
POSTHUMUS. How, how? Another?
POSTHUMUS. I am merrier to die than thou art to live.
POSTHUMUS. I am, sir,
POSTHUMUS. I did:
POSTHUMUS. I do believe
POSTHUMUS. I embrace these conditions; let us have articles betwixt
POSTHUMUS. I hope the briefness of your answer made
POSTHUMUS. I prais'd her as I rated her. So do I my stone.
POSTHUMUS. I tell thee, fellow, there are none want eyes to direct
POSTHUMUS. I will wage against your gold, gold to it. My ring I
POSTHUMUS. If you can make't apparent
POSTHUMUS. Is there no way for men to be, but women
POSTHUMUS. Jove!
POSTHUMUS. Kneel not to me.
POSTHUMUS. Make not, sir,
POSTHUMUS. May be she pluck'd it of
POSTHUMUS. More than the world enjoys.
POSTHUMUS. Most welcome, bondage! for thou art a way,
POSTHUMUS. My queen! my mistress!
POSTHUMUS. Nay, do not wonder at it; you are made
POSTHUMUS. Never talk on't;
POSTHUMUS. No blame be to you, sir, for all was lost,
POSTHUMUS. No swearing.
POSTHUMUS. No, no.
POSTHUMUS. Not any; but abide the change of time,
POSTHUMUS. O that I had her here to tear her limb-meal!
POSTHUMUS. O, no, no, no! 'tis true. Here, take this too;
POSTHUMUS. Over-roasted rather; ready long ago.
POSTHUMUS. Please your Highness,
POSTHUMUS. Proceed.
POSTHUMUS. Shall's have a play of this? Thou scornful page,
POSTHUMUS. She holds her virtue still, and I my mind.
POSTHUMUS. Should we be taking leave
POSTHUMUS. Since when I have been debtor to you for courtesies,
POSTHUMUS. Sir, with all my heart. This worthy signior, I thank
POSTHUMUS. So they must,
POSTHUMUS. So, if I prove a good repast to the spectators, the dish
POSTHUMUS. Spare your arithmetic; never count the turns.
POSTHUMUS. Still going? This is a lord! O noble misery,
POSTHUMUS. The gods protect you,
POSTHUMUS. The stone's too hard to come by.
POSTHUMUS. The swiftest harts have posted you by land,
POSTHUMUS. Their tenour good, I trust.
POSTHUMUS. This is a thing
POSTHUMUS. This is but a custom in your tongue; you bear a graver
POSTHUMUS. This is her honour!
POSTHUMUS. This is true;
POSTHUMUS. Thou bring'st good news: I am call'd to be made free.
POSTHUMUS. Thou shalt be then freer than a gaoler; no bolts for the
POSTHUMUS. Very true;
POSTHUMUS. What lady would you choose to assail?
POSTHUMUS. Which by their graces I will keep.
POSTHUMUS. Will you? I Shall but lend my diamond till your return.
POSTHUMUS. Yea, bloody cloth, I'll keep thee; for I wish'd
POSTHUMUS. Yes indeed do I, fellow.
POSTHUMUS. You are a great deal abus'd in too bold a persuasion,
POSTHUMUS. You are mistaken: the one may be sold or given, if there
POSTHUMUS. Your Italy contains none so accomplish'd a courtier to
POSTHUMUS. Your servant, Princes. Good my lord of Rome,
POSTHUMUS. [Aside] What's that to him?
POSTHUMUS. [Coming forward] Ay, so thou dost,
POSTHUMUS. [Waking] Sleep, thou has been a grandsire and begot
Players.
Pol. He hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave
Pol. Yet here, Laertes? Aboard, aboard, for shame!
Polonius, Lord Chamberlain.
QUEEN, wife to Cymbeline
QUEEN. 'Tis not sleepy business,
QUEEN. All the better. May
QUEEN. And, to kill the marvel,
QUEEN. Be brief, I pray you.
QUEEN. Beseech your patience.- Peace,
QUEEN. Dispatch.                                 Exeunt LADIES
QUEEN. Fie! you must give way.
QUEEN. Go, look after.                             Exit CLOTEN
QUEEN. Ha!
QUEEN. He goes hence frowning; but it honours us
QUEEN. I am very glad on't.
QUEEN. I wonder, Doctor,
QUEEN. My lord, when last I went to visit her,
QUEEN. No further service, Doctor,
QUEEN. No, be assur'd you shall not find me, daughter,
QUEEN. O, content thee.
QUEEN. Pray walk awhile.
QUEEN. Royal sir,
QUEEN. Son, I say, follow the King.
QUEEN. That opportunity,
QUEEN. This hath been
QUEEN. Weeps she still, say'st thou? Dost thou think in time
QUEEN. Whiles yet the dew's on ground, gather those flowers;
QUEEN. You are most bound to th' King,
QUEEN. You know the peril.
QUEEN. [To PISANIO] Hark thee, a word.
Queen. Good Hamlet, cast thy nighted colour off,
Queen. If it be,
Queen. Let not thy mother lose her prayers, Hamlet.
ROMAN. Banish'd, sir.
ROMAN. I am a Roman; and my services are, as you are, against 'em.
ROMAN. I am joyful to hear of their readiness, and am the man, I
ROMAN. I know you well, sir, and you know me; your name, I think,
ROMAN. I shall between this and supper tell you most strange things
ROMAN. The day serves well for them now. I have heard it said the
ROMAN. The main blaze of it is past, but a small thing would make
ROMAN. The same, sir.
ROMAN. There hath been in Rome strange insurrections: the people
ROMAN. Well, let us go together.
Reynaldo, servant to Polonius.
Rosencrantz, courtier.
SECOND BROTHER. For this from stiller seats we came,
SECOND CAPTAIN. Lay hands on him; a dog!
SECOND CAPTAIN. There was a fourth man, in a silly habit,
SECOND CITIZEN. Amen, sir. To my poor unworthy notice,
SECOND CITIZEN. And so did I.
SECOND CITIZEN. Not one amongst us, save yourself, but says
SECOND CITIZEN. So did we all. But come, let's home.
SECOND CITIZENS. And will deny him;
SECOND CONSPIRATOR. And patient fools,
SECOND CONSPIRATOR. Most noble sir,
SECOND GAOLER. Ay, or a stomach.                Exeunt GAOLERS
SECOND GENTLEMAN. And why so?
SECOND GENTLEMAN. But what's the matter?
SECOND GENTLEMAN. How long is this ago?
SECOND GENTLEMAN. I do well believe you.
SECOND GENTLEMAN. I honour him
SECOND GENTLEMAN. None but the King?
SECOND GENTLEMAN. That a king's children should be so convey'd,
SECOND GENTLEMAN. What's his name and birth?
SECOND GENTLEMAN. You speak him far.
SECOND LORD. Ay, it is fit for your lordship only.
SECOND LORD. Here comes the King.
SECOND LORD. His own impatience
SECOND LORD. I'll attend your lordship.
SECOND LORD. It is not fit your lordship should undertake every
SECOND LORD. No, my lord; [Aside] nor crop the ears of them.
SECOND LORD. Peace, ho! No outrage- peace!
SECOND LORD. Thou hast done a deed whereat valour will weep.
SECOND LORD. Well, my lord.                             Exeunt
SECOND LORD. You cannot derogate, my lord.
SECOND LORD. [Aside] As many inches as you have oceans.
SECOND LORD. [Aside] He's a strange fellow himself, and knows it
SECOND LORD. [Aside] His steel was in debt; it went o' th' back
SECOND LORD. [Aside] I wish not so; unless it had been the fall of
SECOND LORD. [Aside] If his wit had been like him that broke it, it
SECOND LORD. [Aside] If it be a sin to make a true election, she is
SECOND LORD. [Aside] No, faith; not so much as his patience.
SECOND LORD. [Aside] No; but he fled forward still, toward your
SECOND LORD. [Aside] She shines not upon fools, lest the reflection
SECOND LORD. [Aside] So would I, till you had measur'd how long a
SECOND LORD. [Aside] To have smell'd like a fool.
SECOND LORD. [Aside] You are a fool granted; therefore your issues,
SECOND LORD. [Aside] You are cock and capon too; and you crow,
SECOND MESSENGER. As certain as I know the sun is fire.
SECOND MESSENGER. Good news, good news! The ladies have prevail'd,
SECOND MESSENGER. Sir, we have all
SECOND MESSENGER. You are sent for to the Senate.
SECOND SENATOR. Ay.
SECOND SENATOR. Get you gone.
SECOND SENATOR. Weapons, weapons, weapons!
SECOND SERVANT. 'Tis so; and as war in some sort may be said to be
SECOND SERVANT. An he had been cannibally given, he might have
SECOND SERVANT. And I shall.                              Exit
SECOND SERVANT. And he's as like to do't as any man I can imagine.
SECOND SERVANT. Are you so brave? I'll have you talk'd with anon.
SECOND SERVANT. Away? Get you away.
SECOND SERVANT. By my hand, I had thought to have strucken him with
SECOND SERVANT. Come, we are fellows and friends. He was ever too
SECOND SERVANT. Faith, look you, one cannot tell how to say that;
SECOND SERVANT. Here, sir; I'd have beaten him like a dog, but for
SECOND SERVANT. Nay, I knew by his face that there was something in
SECOND SERVANT. So did I, I'll be sworn. He is simply the rarest
SECOND SERVANT. Whence are you, sir? Has the porter his eyes in his
SECOND SERVANT. Who, my master?
SECOND SERVANT. Why, then we shall have a stirring world again.
SECOND SERVANT. Worth six on him.
SECOND SERVANT.Where's Cotus? My master calls for him.
SECOND WATCH. 'Tis a spell, you see, of much power! You know the
SECOND WATCH. Howsoever you have been his liar, as you say you
SECOND WATCH. Stand, and go back.
SECOND WATCH. The worthy fellow is our general; he's the rock, the
SECOND WATCH. What cause, do you think, I have to swoon?
SECOND WATCH. You'll see your Rome embrac'd with fire before
SEVENTH CITIZEN. Therefore let him be consul. The gods give him
SICILIUS. Great Nature like his ancestry
SICILIUS. He came in thunder; his celestial breath
SICILIUS. No more, thou thunder-master, show
SICILIUS. Peep through thy marble mansion. Help!
SICILIUS. The marble pavement closes, he is enter'd
SICILIUS. Thy crystal window ope; look out;
SICILIUS. Why did you suffer Iachimo,
SICINIUS. 'Tis he, 'tis he. O, he is grown most kind
SICINIUS. 'Tis this slave-
SICINIUS. 'Twere well
SICINIUS. And affecting one sole throne,
SICINIUS. Answer to us.
SICINIUS. Are you mankind?
SICINIUS. Assemble presently the people hither;
SICINIUS. Bid them all home; he's gone, and we'll no further.
SICINIUS. Bid them home.
SICINIUS. Come, what talk you of Marcius?
SICINIUS. Consul! What consul?
SICINIUS. Draw near, ye people.
SICINIUS. Fare you well.
SICINIUS. First, the gods bless you for your tidings; next,
SICINIUS. For that he has-
SICINIUS. Friend,
SICINIUS. Go call the people,  [Exit AEDILE]  in whose name myself
SICINIUS. Go see him out at gates, and follow him,
SICINIUS. Go, masters, get you be not dismay'd;
SICINIUS. God-den, our neighbours.
SICINIUS. Has spoken like a traitor and shall answer
SICINIUS. Have you
SICINIUS. Have you a catalogue
SICINIUS. Have you corrected them by tribes?
SICINIUS. He lov'd his mother dearly.
SICINIUS. He shall be thrown down the Tarpeian rock
SICINIUS. He's a disease that must be cut away.
SICINIUS. He's sentenc'd; no more hearing.
SICINIUS. Hear me, people; peace!
SICINIUS. Help, ye citizens!
SICINIUS. Here's he that would take from you all your power.
SICINIUS. How now, my masters! Have you chose this man?
SICINIUS. I do demand,
SICINIUS. I would he had continued to his country
SICINIUS. Is't possible that so short