











Exeunt
HAMLET.'
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
[Exit.]
grave.]
[Reads.]
Polonius.
[Exeunt.]
'HAMLET.'
Exit Ghost.
They fight.
Attendants].
He drinketh.
[Exit Lord.]
[He] sleeps.
Exeunt Lords.
Exit Horatio.
[Exit Poins.]
[Exit Queen.]
[They swear.]
are shot off.
Exit Falstaff.
Exit Reynaldo.
[Exit Vintner.]
[Steps aside.]
A noise within.
Exeunt Players.
Exit Messenger.
Exit Worcester.
[Exit Horatio.]
[Exit Servant.]
[March within.]
Exit [Polonius].
Exit [Polonius].
Prepare to play.
The music plays.
[Exit Bardolph.]
[Exit Polonius.]
[Ghost beckons.]
[Gives a paper.]
[Laertes falls.]
him in the same.
Exeunt Gentlemen.
[Exit Attendant.]
[Exit Gentleman.]
Exeunt [Carriers].
Leaps in the grave.
[Reads] the letter.
[Scatters flowers.]
[They stand aside.]
Exit [with Carrier].
[Exeunt Attendants.]
[Exit First Player.]
[Exit Second Clown.]
[Grapples with him].
[Throws up a skull.]
A retreat is sounded.
Ghost beckons Hamlet.
[Puts down the skull.]
[Retires with Horatio.]
Exeunt Ghost and Hamlet.
The Lady again in Welsh.
[Exeunt all but Hamlet.]
[Exeunt all but Hamlet.]
The Lady speaks in Welsh.
Exeunt King and Polonius].
Throws up [another skull].
[Exeunt Prince and Poins.]
They fight. Douglas flieth.
Exit Worcester [with Vernon]
Exit [bearing off the body].
not knowing which way to go.
Exeunt [all but the Captain].
Pours the poison in his ears.
[Sits down at Ophelia's feet.]
Exeunt King, [Blunt, and Train]
The Lady speaks again in Welsh.
Exeunt. Manent Prince, Falstaff.
He spieth Falstaff on the ground.
Here the Lady sings a Welsh song.
A noise within: 'Let her come in.'
Exeunt all but Hamlet and Horatio.
He throws the bottle at him. Exit.
[Polonius hides behind the arras.]
Enter Falstaff.
Enter Hostess.
Enter Poins.
'He that thou knowest thine, HAMLET.'
Enter Chamberlain.
Enter Polonius.
Enter a Lord.
Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern]
Here they rob and bind them. Exeunt.
Lancaster.
[Exeunt Manent the Prince and Peto.]
[Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern
Enter Gadshill.
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Queen.
[Hamlet moves him to put on his hat.]
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Hostess.
Enter Poins.
Enter Sailors.
Enter Worcester.
Exeunt [Prince Henry and Prince John].
Exeunt [Rosencrantz and Guildenstern].
Here they embrace. The trumpets sound.
[Exeunt Prince John and Westmoreland.]
[Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.]
Enter Douglas.
Enter Falstaff.
Enter Ghost.
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Lucianus.
Enter Polonius.
Enter Vintner.
Enter his Lady.
Enter the Prince.
Enter the Travellers.
Exeunt Worcester and Vernon, [guarded].
INDUCTION.
[Enter Francis.]
[Lifts up the arras and sees Polonius.]
Enter Blunt.
Enter Polonius.
Enter another Carrier.
[Exeunt Hostess, Francis, and Bardolph.]
Enter Douglas.
Enter Ophelia.
Enter a Messenger.
Enter the Hostess.
Enter the Thieves again.
Exeunt King and Queen, [with Attendants].
SCENE: England
[Clown digs and] sings.
carrying torches.
Enter Falstaff.
Enter Horatio.
Enter Hotspur.
Enter NORTHUMBERLAND
Enter Ophelia.
Enter Prologue.
Enter Bardolph, running.
Enter a Messenger.
Enter four or five Players.
Enter one with letters.
Enter the Players with recorders.
Falstaff riseth up.
Flourish for the Players.
Enter King.
Enter Laertes with others.
Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Enter Rosencrantz.
Enter Sheriff and the Carrier.
Enter [Francis, a] Drawer.
[Enter a Servant.]
[The King puts Laertes' hand into Hamlet's.]
change rapiers, [and Hamlet wounds Laertes].
A flourish of trumpets, and two pieces go off.
Enter Horatio and Marcellus.
Enter King and Polonius.
Enter Polonius.
Francis follows with wine].
The PORTER opens the gate
Colours, and Attendants.
Enter another Messenger.
[Exit the Queen. Then] Exit Hamlet, tugging in
Alarum. Enter Falstaff solus.
Enter Hamlet and Horatio afar off.
Enter Hamlet, reading on a book.
Enter Ophelia distracted.
Enter Sir Richard Vernon.
Enter Sir Walter Blunt.
Enter a Messenger with letters.
Enter young Osric, a courtier.
Exeunt Polonius and Players [except the First].
Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, [with some
Ghost cries under the stage.
Item, Anchovies and sack after supper.  ii s. vi d.
Item, Bread. . . . . . . . . . . . . .          ob.'
Item, Sack two gallons . . . . . . . . v s. viii d.
Item, Sauce. . . . . . . . . . . . . .      iiii d.
Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Enter the Ghost in his nightgown.
[Laertes wounds Hamlet; then] in scuffling, they
A table and flagons of wine on it.
Enter Hotspur [and Douglas].
Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Glendower speaks to her in Welsh, and she answers
Hautboys play. The dumb show enters.
[Drum; trumpets sound; a piece goes off [within].
Alack, and fie for shame!
All in the morning bedtime,
An thou hadst not come to my bed.'
And dupp'd the chamber door,
At his heels a stone.
Attendants with foils and gauntlets.
By Cock, they are to blame.
Enter Polonius, Voltemand, and Cornelius.
Enter [two Players as] King and Queen.
Enter the Prince and the Lord of Westmoreland.
For such a guest is meet.
He is dead and gone;
Here they both call him. The Drawer stands amazed,
Never departed more.
The trumpet sounds a parley.
To be your Valentine.
You promis'd me to wed.'
Enter Gadshill, [Bardolph and Peto with him].
Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Queen, Laertes, with Lords attendant.]
[The Attendants part them, and they come out of the
'So would I 'a' done, by yonder sun,
And I a maid at your window,
At his head a grass-green turf,
But never doubt I love.
Doubt that the sun doth move;
Enter Glendower with the Ladies.
Enter Polonius, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern.
Enter RUMOUR, painted full of tongues
Enter the Prince and Poins [in buckram suits].
Exeunt marching; after the which a peal of ordnance
He searcheth his pockets and findeth certain papers.
Let in the maid, that out a maid
Quoth she, 'Before you tumbled me,
Then up he rose and donn'd his clo'es
Young men will do't if they come to't
[Makes a pass through the arras and] kills Polonius.
'As by lot, God wot,'
'It came to pass, as most like it was.'
(Hey non nony, nony, hey nony)
A very, very- pajock.
And his sandal shoon.
And we cast away moan.
As if I had never been such.
Enter Falstaff, [Gadshill, Bardolph, and Peto;
For and a shrouding sheet;
For such a guest is meet.
From another one?
Go to thy deathbed;
Hath clawed me in his clutch,
He is gone, he is gone,
Larded all with sweet flowers;
No, no, he is dead;
The which he loved passing well.'
This realm dismantled was
Warkworth. Before NORTHUMBERLAND'S Castle
With true-love showers.
'Doubt thou the stars are fire;
Doubt truth to be a liar;
The hart ungalled play;
Thus runs the world away.
them, playing upon his truncheon like a fife.
'One fair daughter, and no more,
'The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose sable arms,
'The rugged Pyrrhus, like th' Hyrcanian beast-'
A pickaxe and a spade, a spade,
All flaxen was his poll.
And hath shipped me intil the land,
And in his grave rain'd many a tear.
And thus o'ersized with coagulate gore,
And will he not come again?
And will he not come again?
Bak'd and impasted with the parching streets,
Black as his purpose, did the night resemble
But age with his stealing steps
By his cockle bat and' staff
For if the King like not the comedy,
For some must watch, while some must sleep:
For thou dost know, O Damon dear,
God 'a'mercy on his soul!
Hath now this dread and black complexion smear'd
He never will come again.
His beard was as white as snow,
How should I your true-love know
Methought it was very sweet;
Now is be total gules, horridly trick'd
O, a Pit of clay for to be made
O, methought there- a- was nothing- a- meet.
Of Jove himself; and now reigns here
Old grandsire Priam seeks.'
That lend a tyrannous and a damned light
They bore him barefac'd on the bier
To their lord's murther. Roasted in wrath and fire,
When he lay couched in the ominous horse,
Which bewept to the grave did not go
Why then, belike he likes it not, perdy.
With blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons,
With eyes like carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus
With heraldry more dismal. Head to foot
Enter Hamlet and Guildenstern [with Attendants].
[As they are sharing, the Prince and Poins set upon
them. THey all run away, and Falstaff, after a blow or
two, runs awasy too, leaving the booty behind them.]
Enter Hamlet, Rosencrantz, [Guildenstern,] and others.
In youth when I did love, did love,
To contract- O- the time for- a- my behove,
'Gainst Fortune's state would treason have pronounc'd.
'O dear Ophelia, I am ill at these numbers; I have not art to
'Thine evermore, most dear lady, whilst this machine is to him,
(Unless things mortal move them not at all)
A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up-
A second time I kill my husband dead
A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still,
About her lank and all o'erteemed loins,
About the world have times twelve thirties been,
An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope,
And as my love is siz'd, my fear is so.
And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven,
And hitherto doth love on fortune tend,
And never come mischance between us twain!
And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall
And passion in the gods.'
And thirty dozed moons with borrowed sheen
And thou shalt live in this fair world behind,
And who in want a hollow friend doth try,
And, like a neutral to his will and matter,
Are base respects of thrift, but none of love.
Aroused vengeance sets him new awork;
As hush as death- anon the dreadful thunder
As low as to the fiends!
Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife,
Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel,
But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead.
But fill unshaken when they mellow be.
But if the gods themselves did see her then,
But what we do determine oft we break.
But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword
But woe is me! you are so sick of late,
But, as we often see, against some storm,
But, orderly to end where I begun,
Confederate season, else no creature seeing;
Did nothing.
Directly seasons him his enemy.
Discomfort you, my lord, it nothing must;
Doth rend the region; so, after Pyrrhus' pause,
Each opposite that blanks the face of joy
Enter the Prince [and Poins], marching; and Falstaff meets
For 'tis a question left us yet to prove,
For husband shalt thou-
For who not needs shall never lack a friend,
For women's fear and love holds quantity,
Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.
Guildenstern, and other Lords attendant, with the Guard
Here stooping to your clemency,
Honour'd, belov'd, and haply one as kind
If, once a widow, ever I be wife!
In Mincing with his sword her husband's limbs,
In general synod take away her power;
In neither aught, or in extremity.
Make us again count o'er ere love be done!
Meet what I would have well, and it destroy,
Most necessary 'tis that we forget
My operant powers their functions leave to do.
My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguile
Neptune's salt wash and Tellus' orbed ground,
None wed the second but who killed the first.
Now falls on Priam.
Now what my love is, proof hath made you know;
Of reverend Priam, seem'd i' th' air to stick.
Of violent birth, but poor validity;
On Mars's armour, forg'd for proof eterne,
On wholesome life usurp immediately.
Ophelia,'-
Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own.
Our wills and fates do so contrary run
Out, out, thou strumpet Fortune! All you gods,
Purpose is but the slave to memory,
Pyrrhus at Priam drives, in rage strikes wide;
Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls,
Repugnant to command. Unequal match'd,
Seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top
Since love our hearts, and Hymen did our hands,
So far from cheer and from your former state.
So think thou wilt no second husband wed;
So, as a painted tyrant, Pyrrhus stood,
Sport and repose lock from me day and night,
Stoops to his base, and with a hideous crash
Striking too short at Greeks. His antique sword,
Such love must needs be treason in my breast.
Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear. For lo! his sword,
Th' unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium,
That I distrust you. Yet, though I distrust,
That even our loves should with our fortunes change;
That our devices still are overthrown;
The bold winds speechless, and the orb below
The great man down, you mark his favourite flies,
The instant burst of clamour that she made
The passion ending, doth the purpose lose.
The poor advanc'd makes friends of enemies;
The tedious day with sleep.
The violence of either grief or joy
Their own enactures with themselves destroy.
This world is not for aye, nor 'tis not strange
Thou mixture rank, of midnight weeds collected,
Thy natural magic and dire property
To desperation turn my trust and hope,
To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt.
Unite comutual in most sacred bands.
We beg your hearing patiently.                     [Exit.]
What to ourselves in passion we propose,
When second husband kisses me in bed.
When second husband let me be accurst!
When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport
Where joy most revels, grief doth most lament;
Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe,
Where little fears grow great, great love grows there.
Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear;
Whether love lead fortune, or else fortune love.
Which now, like fruit unripe, sticks on the tree,
Which was declining on the milky head
Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steep'd
With Hecate's ban thrice blasted, thrice infected,
With bisson rheum; a clout upon that head
With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword
Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven
be otherwise.
he were dead. [Exit Douglas.] The Prince killeth Percy.
phrase.
The trumpet sounds. Enter Worcester [and Vernon].
discretion.
'Give my roan horse a drench,' says he, and answers 'Some
'Good sir,' or so, or 'friend,' or 'gentleman'-
'I saw him enter such a house of sale,'
'In her excellent white bosom, these, &c.'
'Laertes shall be king! Laertes king!'
'Lord Hamlet is a prince, out of thy star.
'Now the King drinks to Hamlet.' Come, begin.
'S blood!
'Swounds, I should take it! for it cannot be
'Thus didest thou.'
'Tis a point of friendship.
'Tis catching hither, even to our camp.
'Tis dangerous when the baser nature comes
'Tis given out that, sleeping in my orchard,
'Tis heavy with him; and am I then reveng'd,
'Tis like the forc'd gait of a shuffling nag,
'Tis meet that some more audience than a mother,
'Tis not so; it begins with Pyrrhus:
'Tis now the very witching time of night,
'Tis told me he hath very oft of late
'Tis too much prov'd, that with devotion's visage
'To the celestial, and my soul's idol, the most beautified
'Twas where the madcap Duke his uncle kept-
'Twere better not assay'd. Therefore this project
'Your use and counsel, we shall send for you.
'tis no matter; honour pricks me on. Yea, but how if honour prick
'twas a pennyworth, wast not?
'twere not as good a deed as drink to turn true man and to leave
'twere, the mirror up to nature; to show Virtue her own feature,
(A business that this night may execute),
(As I perceiv'd it, I must tell you that,
(As I perchance hereafter shall think meet
(As both of you, God pardon it! have done)
(As how should it be so? how otherwise?),
(My fears forgetting manners) to unseal
(O royal knavery!), an exact command,
(Sings) He is dead and gone, lady,
(Sings) To-morrow is Saint Valentine's day,
(Sings) White his shroud as the mountain snow-
(Things standing thus unknown) shall live behind me!
(Who is, if every owner were well placid,
(Whose wrongs in us God pardon!) did set forth
(for the most part) are capable of nothing but inexplicable dumb
-Still?- Nay, prithee be gone. [Exit Hostess.] Now, Hal, to the
A banish'd woman from my Harry's bed,
A baseness to write fair, and labour'd much
A borrowed title hast thou bought too dear:
A brave defiance in King Henry's teeth,
A broken voice, and his whole function suiting
A brother's murther! Pray can I not,
A chalice for the nonce; whereon but sipping,
A clip-wing'd griffin and a moulten raven,
A combination and a form indeed
A comfort of retirement lives in this.
A couch for luxury and damned incest.
A couching lion and a ramping cat,
A cutpurse of the empire and the rule,
A damn'd defeat was made. Am I a coward?
A dull and muddy-mettled rascal, peak
A face without a heart,'
A fellow of no mark nor likelihood.
A gallant knight he was, his name was Blunt;
A gallant prize? Ha, cousin, is it not?
A good mouth-filling oath; and leave 'in sooth'
A gross fat man.
A hare-brained Hotspur govern'd by a spleen.
A huge half-moon, a monstrous cantle out.
A kind of wick or snuff that will abate it;
A kingdom for it was too small a bound;
A larger dare to our great enterprise,
A man that Fortune's buffets and rewards
A mighty and a fearful head they are,
A minist'ring angel shall my sister be
A noble earl, and many a creature else
A plague upon it! it is in GIoucestershire-
A poor unminded outlaw sneaking home,
A post from Wales, loaden with heavy news;
A pouncet box, which ever and anon
A prodigy of fear, and a portent
A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee.
A rhapsody of words! Heaven's face doth glow;
A rising sigh he wisheth you in heaven.
A savageness in unreclaimed blood,
A scullion!
A second time do such a courtesy.
A serpent stung me. So the whole ear of Denmark
A sister driven into desp'rate terms,
A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe
A son who is the theme of honour's tongue,
A station like the herald Mercury
A sword unbated, and, in a pass of practice,
A sword whose temper I intend to stain
A thought which, quarter'd, hath but one part wisdom
A thousand of his people butchered;
A very noble youth. Mark.
A very valiant rebel of the name.
A villain kills my father; and for that,
A virtue that was never seen in you.
A weasel hath not such a deal of spleen
A worthy pioner! Once more remove, good friends."
About his title and hath sent for you
Above yon busky hill! The day looks pale
Absent thee from felicity awhile,
Abuses me to damn me. I'll have grounds
Accompany the greatness of thy blood
According to our threefold order ta'en?
According to the phrase or the addition
Acts little of his will. Tell me, Laertes,
Adam fell; and what should poor Jack Falstaff do in the days of
Addicted so and so'; and there put on him
Adieu, adieu, adieu! Remember me.                      Exit.
Adieu, and take thy praise with thee to heaven!
Admit no messengers, receive no tokens.
Advantage feeds him fat while men delay.            Exeunt.
Afford no extraordinary gaze,
Affront Ophelia.
After the Danish sword, and thy free awe
After the thing it loves.
Against acquaintance, kindred, and allies.
Against my power; thrice from the banks of Wye
Against renowmed Douglas! whose high deeds,
Against that great magician, damn'd Glendower,
Against the bosom of the Prince of Wales.
Against the irregular and wild Glendower,
Against thy mother aught. Leave her to heaven,
Ah, mine own lord, what have I seen to-night!
Alas, how shall this bloody deed be answer'd?
Albeit I make a hazard of my head.
Albeit considerations infinite
Alexander was buried, Alexander returneth into dust; the dust is
All at one cast? to set so rich a man
All from her father's death. O Gertrude, Gertrude,
All given to mine ear.
All his offences live upon my head
All hot and bleeding Will we offer them.
All may be well.                                  He kneels.
All my smooth body.
All of one nature, of one substance bred,
All plum'd like estridges that with the wind
All saws of books, all forms, all pressures past
All westward, Wales beyond the Severn shore,
Among a mineral of metals base,
Among my household? Why is Rumour here?
Amongst a grove the very straightest plant;
An eye like Mars, to threaten and command;
An hour of quiet shortly shall we see;
An if thou wilt not tell my all things true.
An if we live, we live to tread on kings;
An the Prince and Poins be not two arrant cowards, there's no
And 'gentle Harry Percy,' and 'kind cousin'-
And 'tis but wisdom to make strong against him.
And 'tis no marvel, be is so humorous.
And 'twixt his finger and his thumb he held
And (would it were not so!) you are my mother.
And God befriend us as our cause is just!
And God forbid a shallow scratch should drive
And God forgive them that so much have sway'd
And I am glad of it with all my heart!
And I believe it is a fetch of warrant.
And I beseech you instantly to visit
And I beseech you, let not his report
And I dare well maintain it with my life-
And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose
And I do haunt thee in the battle thus
And I do think- or else this brain of mine
And I embrace this fortune patiently,
And I must know it, else he loves me not.
And I the matter will reword; which madness
And I will call hall to so strict account
And I will die a hundred thousand deaths
And I'll be plac'd so please you, in the ear
And I'll be sworn I have power to shame him hence.
And I, of ladies most deject and wretched,
And In the morning early shall mine uncle
And Westmoreland, that was engag'd, did bear it;
And You must put me in your heart for friend,
And a man's life is no more than to say 'one.'
And a most instant tetter bark'd about,
And after we will both our judgments join
And all the budding honours on thy crest
And all the courses of my life do show
And all the currents of a heady fight.
And all the fertile land within that bound,
And all we mourn for.
And am most sensibly in grief for it,
And an adopted name of privilege-
And art almost an alien to the hearts
And as the soldiers bore dead bodies by,
And at our more consider'd time we'll read,
And at the time of my departure thence
And batten on this moor? Ha! have you eyes
And be no more an exhal'd meteor,
And bear it to the chapel.
And bears down all before him.
And bid it pass?
And blow them at the moon. O, 'tis most sweet
And bootless 'tis to tell you we will go.
And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.
And botch the words up fit to their own thoughts;
And both neglect. What if this cursed hand
And break your own neck down.
And breath of life, I have no life to breathe
And breathe short-winded accents of new broils
And breed a kind of question in our cause.
And bring him out that is but woman's son
And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is.
And by his hollow whistling in the leaves
And by opposing end them. To die- to sleep-
And by that music let us all embrace;
And call it accident.
And call the noblest to the audience.
And call'd mine Percy, his Plantagenet!
And can say nothing! No, not for a king,
And chid his truant youth with such a grace
And cleave the general ear with horrid speech;
And comes not in, overrul'd by prophecies-
And could of men distinguish, her election
And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee
And curbs himself even of his natural scope
And curd, like eager droppings into milk,
And cuts me from the best of all my land
And do not spread the compost on the weeds
And do such bitter business as the day
And do't the speedier that you may direct me
And draw you into madness? Think of it.
And dress'd myself in such humility
And drive his purpose on to these delights.
And duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed
And each particular hair to stand an end
And either [master] the devil, or throw him out
And either they or we must lower lie.                [Exit.]
And end his being. That done, he lets me go,
And enterprises of great pith and moment
And even as I was then is Percy now.
And ever three parts coward,- I do not know
And fall a-cursing like a very drab,
And falling from a hill,he was so bruis'd
And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!
And food for-                                        [Dies.]
And for his death no wind
And for his sake wear the detested blot
And for my means, I'll husband them so well
And for my soul, what can it do to that,
And for that purpose I'll anoint my sword.
And for the day confin'd to fast in fires,
And for this cause awhile we must neglect
And for your part, Ophelia, I do wish
And for your rapier most especially,
And from her fair and unpolluted flesh
And from his mother's closet hath he dragg'd him.
And from his mouth whose voice will draw on more.
And from this swarm of fair advantages
And furious close of civil butchery,
And gather by him, as he is behav'd,
And gave his countenance, against his name,
And gave the tongue a helpful ornament-
And gave you such a masterly report
And gem of all the nation.
And gins to pale his uneffectual fire.
And given my treasures and my rights of thee
And givest such sarcenet surety for thy oaths
And gorgeous as the sun at midsummer;
And hath abatements and delays as many
And he beseech'd me to entreat your Majesties
And he hath brought us smooth and welcome news.
And he himself will answer.
And he not from his reason fall'n thereon
And he to England shall along with you.
And he, repulsed, a short tale to make,
And heard thee murmur tales of iron wars,
And hears it roar beneath.
And here give up ourselves, in the full bent,
And here the smug and sliver Trent shall run
And hid his crisp head in the hollow bank,
And his commission to employ those soldiers,
And his comrades, that daff'd the world aside
And hit the woundless air.- O, come away!
And hold me pace in deep experiments.
And hold their level with thy princely heart?
And how his audit stands, who knows save heaven?
And how, and who, what means, and where they keep,
And hurt my brother.
And if thou prate of mountains, let them throw
And in a postscript here, he says 'alone.'
And in conclusion drove us to seek out
And in his ear I'll holloa 'Mortimer.'
And in my conduct shall your ladies come,
And in part him.' Do you mark this, Reynaldo?
And in that very line, Harry, standest thou;
And in the cup an union shall he throw
And in the neck of that task'd the whole state;
And in the porches of my ears did pour
And in this brainish apprehension kills
And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain,
And in thy face strange motions have appear'd,
And is not this an honourable spoil?
And it must follow, as the night the day,
And lards the lean earth as he walks along.
And lay your hands again upon my sword.
And leads the will to desperate undertakings
And left me in reputeless banishment,
And lend no ear unto my purposes.
And let all sleep, while to my shame I see
And let him know so.
And let him, for a pair of reechy kisses,
And let me speak to the yet unknowing world
And let me wring your heart; for so I shall
And let the kettle to the trumpet speak,
And let them grapple. O, the blood more stirs
And let them know both what we mean to do
And live the purer with the other half,
And lose the name of action.- Soft you now!
And made us doff our easy robes of peace
And majesty might never yet endure
And make the Douglas' son your only mean
And makes as healthful music. It is not madness
And makes each petty artire in this body
And makes us rather bear those ills we have
And many limits of the charge set down
And many moe corrivals and dear men
And many such-like as's of great charge,
And marshal me to knavery. Let it work;
And meant to wrack thee; but beshrew my jealousy!
And melt in her own fire. Proclaim no shame
And military title capital
And more above, hath his solicitings,
And move in that obedient orb again
And much offence too. Touching this vision here,
And my good Lord of Worcester will set forth
And my imaginations are as foul
And my young mistress thus I did bespeak:
And never yet did insurrection want
And no such matter? Rumour is a pipe
And not a man of them brings other news
And not have strew'd thy grave.
And not in fear of your nativity.
And not the very King. I have two boys
And not where I had aim'd them.
And nothing is at a like goodness still;
And nothing pleaseth but rare accidents.
And now I'll do't. And so he goes to heaven,
And now their pride and mettle is asleep,
And now, I will unclasp a secret book,
And now, forsooth, takes on him to reform
And of a dragon and a finless fish,
And of all Christian souls, I pray God. God b' wi', you.
And of so easy and so plain a stop
And oft 'tis seen the wicked prize itself
And on his father's. We did train him on;
And on my face he turn'd an eye of death,
And on this north side win this cape of land;
And on your eyelids crown the god of sleep,
And only stays but to behold the face
And our affairs from England come too late.
And our indentures tripartite are drawn;
And our induction full of prosperous hope.
And pardon absolute for yourself and these
And pardon on lily true submission.
And pass them current too. Gods me, my horse!
And pay the debt I never promised,
And pious action we do sugar o'er
And pity 'tis 'tis true. A foolish figure!
And plant this thorn, this canker, Bolingbroke?
And pluck up drowned honour by the locks,
And prais'd be rashness for it; let us know,
And prey on garbage.
And pride of their contention did take horse,
And put it in his pocket!
And reason panders will.
And rebels' arms triumph in massacres!
And rest your gentle head upon her lap,
And sandy-bottom'd Severn have I sent him
And sav'd the treacherous labour of your son.
And scape detecting, I will pay the theft.
And see already how he doth begin
And set a double varnish on the fame
And sets a blister there; makes marriage vows
And shake the peace and safety of our throne.
And shall I couple hell? Hold, hold, my heart!
And shall it in more shame be further spoken
And shape of likelihood the news was told;
And she will sing the song that pleaseth you
And shed my dear blood drop by drop in the dust,
And show'd thou mak'st some tender of my life,
And since so neighbour'd to his youth and haviour,
And since this business so fair is done,
And since your coming hither have done enough
And so I hear he doth account me too.
And so am I reveng'd. That would be scann'd.
And so far will I trust thee, gentle Kate.
And so hath Clifton. I'll to Clifton straight.
And so let me entreat you leave the house.
And so, without more circumstance at all,
And spur my dull revenge! What is a man,
And stain my favours in a bloody mask,
And stand a comma 'tween their amities,
And start so often when thou sit'st alone?
And still your fingers on your lips, I pray.
And stop all sight-holes, every loop from whence
And straight they shall be here. Sit, and attend.
And such a deal of skimble-skamble stuff
And such a flood of greatness fell on you-
And such protest of pepper gingerbread
And sure I am two men there are not living
And talk so like a waiting gentlewoman
And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes,
And tell him so; for I will else my heart,
And tell you what I know.
And telling me the sovereignest thing on earth
And that I see, in passages of proof,
And that he calls for drink, I'll have prepar'd him
And that his friends by deputation could not
And that his soul may be as damn'd and black
And that in Hamlet's hearing, for a quality
And that in way of caution- I must tell you
And that it was great pity, so it was,
And that no man might draw short breath to-day
And that our drift look through our bad performance.
And that same greatness too which our own hands
And that same sword-and-buckler Prince of Wales-
And that shall be the day, whene'er it lights,
And that shall lend a kind of easiness
And that the King before the Douglas' rage
And that would set my teeth nothing on edge,
And that your Grace hath screen'd and stood between
And that's a feeling disputation.
And that's the dearest grace it renders you-
And that, I hope, will teach you to imagine-
And the contrarious winds that held the King
And then I stole all courtesy from heaven,
And then he runs straight and even.
And then it was when the unhappy King
And then the power of Scotland and of York
And then this 'should' is like a spendthrift sigh,
And then to horse immediately.
And there I see such black and grained spots
And there assume some other, horrible form
And there did seem in him a kind of joy
And there is my Lord of Worcester, and a head
And therefore I forbid my tears; but yet
And therefore lost that title of respect
And they can well on horseback; but this gallant
And they shall do their office. So be gone.
And they shall hear and judge 'twixt you and me.
And think how such an apprehension
And think it pastime. You shortly shall hear more.
And think we think ourselves unsatisfied,
And this worm-eaten hold of ragged stone,
And those musicians that shall play to you
And thou must cure me. Till I know 'tis done,
And thou shalt find a king that will revenge
And thrice his head thus waving up and down,
And thus I win thee.
And thus a while the fit will work on him.
And thus do we of wisdom and of reach,
And thus hath so bestirr'd thee in thy sleep,
And thus the native hue of resolution
And thy commandment all alone shall live
And time, that takes survey of all the world,
And to such wondrous doing brought his horse
And to the fire-ey'd maid of smoky war
And to the last bended their light on me.
And to the manner born, it is a custom
And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge
And to your quick-conceiving discontents
And uncle Worcester. A plague upon it!
And vaulted with such ease into his seat
And violation of all faith and troth
And wager on your heads. He, being remiss,
And waits upon the judgment; and what judgment
And wants not buzzers to infect his ear
And we shall feed like oxen at a stall,
And we shall jointly labour with your soul
And what say you to this? Percy, Northumberland,
And what so poor a man as Hamlet is
And what with Owen Glendower's absence thence,
And what's in prayer but this twofold force,
And what's untimely done. [So haply slander-]
And when I am a-horseback, I will swear
And when I urg'd the ransom once again
And when he heard him swear and vow to God
And when he was not six-and-twenty strong,
And when he's not himself does wrong Laertes,
And when you are desirous to be blest,
And where 'tis so, th' offender's scourge is weigh'd,
And where th' offence is let the great axe fall.
And who but Rumour, who but only I,
And will not wrong it.
And will this brother's wager frankly play.
And will to save the blood on either side,
And witch the world with noble horsemanship.
And with a larger tether may he walk
And with a look so piteous in purport
And with a sudden vigour it doth posset
And with his head over his shoulder turn'd
And with such coz'nage- is't not perfect conscience
And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken
And with th' encorporal air do hold discourse?
And with them words of so sweet breath compos'd
And won by rareness such solemnity.
And wondrous affable, and as bountiful
And would be glad he met with some mischance,
And wouldst thou turn our offers contrary?
And yet I must remember you, my lord,
And yet not ours. Come, let me taste my horse,
And yet, in faith, it is not! His present want
And yet, in faith, thou bearest thee like a king.
And you did swear that oath at Doncaster,
And you have found me, for accordingly
And you must needs have heard, how I am punish'd
And you the judges, bear a wary eye.
And you yourself shall keep the key of it.
And you, my sinews, grow not instant old,
And your unthought of Harry chance to meet.
And, Being no more in debt to years than thou,
And, England, if my love thou hold'st at aught,-
And, as I think, they have already order
And, as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down,
And, as the sleeping soldiers in th' alarm,
And, as the world were now but to begin,
And, as you said, and wisely was it said,
And, being fed by us, you us'd us so
And, but that great command o'ersways the order,
And, even in thy behalf, I'll thank myself
And, his corruption being taken from us,
And, in the closing of some glorious day,
And, in this upshot, purposes mistook
And, like a man to double business bound,
And, like bright metal on a sullen ground,
And, like the kind life-rend'ring pelican,
And, mermaid-like, awhile they bore her up;
And, nephew, challeng'd you to single fight.
And, sheriff, I will engage my word to thee
And, to prevent the worst, Sir Michael, speed.
And, which became him like a prince indeed,
And, will they take the offer of our grace,
And, with his other hand thus o'er his brow,
Anon, as patient as the female dove
Answer'd neglectingly, I know not what-
Answer, and think upon this business.
Antiquity forgot, custom not known,
Are burnt and purg'd away. But that I am forbid
Are confident against the world in arms.
Are here arriv'd, give order that these bodies
Are joyfully return'd.
Are mortis'd and adjoin'd; which when it falls,
Are the indentures drawn? Shall we be gone?
Arm, arm with speed! and, fellows, soldiers, friends,
Art more engag'd! Help, angels! Make assay.
Art thou not asham'd? But, sirrah, henceforth
Art thou to break into this woman's mood,
As 'Well, well, we know,' or 'We could, an if we would,'
As 'twere a thing a little soil'd i' th' working,
As England was his faithful tributary,
As I am truly given to understand,
As I do thee. Something too much of this I
As I will fashion it, shall happily meet,
As Owen Glendower for an enemy.
As Vulcan's stithy. Give him heedful note;
As a tired horse, a railing wife;
As all the poisonous potions in the world,
As are companions noted and most known
As by discharge of their artillery
As by your safety, wisdom, all things else,
As checking at his voyage, and that he means
As cloudy men use to their adversaries,
As day does to your eye.
As deep as to the lungs? Who does me this, ha?
As did that one; and that, in my regard,
As e'er my conversation cop'd withal.
As ever off'red foul play in a state.
As false as dicers' oaths. O, such a deed
As far as to the sepulchre of Christ-
As fits a king's remembrance.
As from the body of contraction plucks
As full of peril and adventurous spirit
As full of spirit as the month of May
As had he been incorps'd and demi-natur'd
As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve.
As he is very potent with such spirits,
As he would draw it. Long stay'd he so.
As hell, whereto it goes. My mother stays.
As high in the air as this unthankful king,
As hot Lord Percy is on fire to go.
As if an angel dropp'd down from the clouds
As if he had been loosed out of hell
As if it some impartment did desire
As if lie mast'red there a double spirit
As if thou ne'er walk'st further than Finsbury.
As in their birth,- wherein they are not guilty,
As infinite as man may undergo-
As is appointed us, at Shrewsbury.
As is delivered to your Majesty.
As is the difference betwixt day and night
As it behooves my daughter and your honour.
As it did seem to shatter all his bulk
As it hath us'd to do- that I have found
As it is common for the younger sort
As kill a king, and marry with his brother.
As level as the cannon to his blank,
As love between them like the palm might flourish,
As made the things more rich. Their perfume lost,
As make your bouts more violent to that end-
As may dishonour him- take heed of that;
As meditation or the thoughts of love,
As mines of India. Shall I tell you, cousin?
As my great power thereof may give thee sense,
As not a soldier of this season's stamp
As now we meet. You have deceiv'd our trust
As oft as any passion under heaven
As on the other side it takes from you.
As one incapable of her own distress,
As one, in suff'ring all, that suffers nothing;
As peace should still her wheaten garland wear
As puts me from my faith. I tell you what-
As that ungentle gull, the cuckoo's bird,
As there are tongues, are hands, are accidents;
As therein are set down.
As they fell out by time, by means, and place,
As this ingrate and cank'red Bolingbroke.
As thou art match'd withal and grafted to,
As thou art to this hour, was Richard then
As thus, 'I know his father and his friends,
As to expend your time with us awhile
As to give words or talk with the Lord Hamlet.
As to o'erwalk a current roaring loud
As to peace-parted souls.
As we have warranty. Her death was doubtful;
As well as I am doubtless I can purge
As what I think might be, but what I know
As will displease you. My Lord Northumberland,
As will not leave their tinct.
As you are friends, scholars, and soldiers,
As you are toss'd with. In faith,
As you yourself have forg'd against yourself
As you, my lord, or any Scot that this day lives.
As, in reproof of many tales devis'd,
As, sick and blunted with community,
Assume a virtue, if you have it not.
At Holmedon met,
At gaming, swearing, or about some act
At his distemp'rature.
At last, a little shaking of mine arm,
At least I am sure it may be so in Denmark.        [Writes.]
At such a time, with all the rest retold,
At thy affections, which do hold a wing,
At two o'clock in the afternoon.
Attended him on bridges, stood in lanes,
Attends the boist'rous ruin. Never alone
Audacious cruelty. If that the King
Away! for everything is seal'd and done
Away, good Ned. Falstaff sweats to death
Away, you trifler! Love? I love thee not;
Ay, thou poor ghost, while memory holds a seat
Balk'd in their own blood did Sir Walter see
Banish Peto, banish Bardolph, banish Poins; but for sweet Jack
Bardolph! Peto! I'll starve ere I'll rob a foot further. An
Bardolph, Peto, and Gadshill shall rob those men that we have
Bardolph, what news?
Base inclination, and the start of spleen,
Bated like eagles having lately bath'd;
Be all my sins rememb'red.
Be bold to tell you that I am your son,
Be buried quick with her, and so will I.
Be but to sleep and feed? A beast, no more.
Be emptied to redeem a traitor home?
Be more myself.
Be soft as sinews of the new-born babe!
Be something scanter of your maiden presence.
Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn'd,
Be thy intents wicked or charitable,
Be you and I behind an arras then.
Be you content to lend your patience to us,
Bear Hamlet like a soldier to the stage;
Bears not alive so stout a gentleman.
Bears such an emphasis? whose phrase of sorrow
Because some tell me that thou art a king.
Because the King is certainly possess'd
Because you are not of our quality,
Becomes the field but here shows much amiss.
Been struck so to the soul that presently
Before You visit him, to make inquire
Before mine uncle. I'll observe his looks;
Before my daughter told me), what might you,
Before not dreamt of.
Before, I lov'd thee as a brother, John;
Begins his golden progress in the East.
Beguiling them of commendation.
Behind the arras I'll convey myself
Behind the arras hearing something stir,
Being a thing immortal as itself?
Being men of such great leading as you are,
Being nature's livery, or fortune's star,
Being the agents or base second means,
Being wanted, he may be more wond'red at
Being with his presence glutted, gorg'd, and full.
Believe so much in him, that he is young,
Bestial oblivion, or some craven scruple
Better consider what you have to do
Between that royal field of Shrewsbury
Between the pass and fell incensed points
Betwixt my love and your high majesty.
Betwixt our armies true intelligence.
Betwixt that Holmedon and this seat of ours,
Betwixt the wind and his nobility.
Bid Butler lead him forth into the park.
Blasted with ecstasy. O, woe is me
Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes?
Bloodstained with these valiant cohabitants.
Blown by surmises, jealousies, conjectures,
Bootless home and weather-beaten back.
Both countenance and excuse. Ho, Guildenstern!
Both he, and they, and you, yea, every man
Both to my God and to my gracious king;
Bow, stubborn knees; and heart with strings of steel,
Brake off our business for the Holy Land.
Break with your wives of your departure hence.
Breathing like sanctified and pious bawds,
Breathless and bleeding on the ground. Art thou alive,
Breathless and faint, leaning upon my sword,
Brief let me be. Sleeping within my orchard,
Bring him our purposes; and so farewell.
Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell,
Broke an oath on oath, committed wrong on wrong;
Brooks no division. It will be thought
Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye!
But I am pigeon-liver'd and lack gall
But I am very sorry, good Horatio,
But I and Harry Monmouth! Tell me, tell me,
But I do prophesy th' election lights
But I remember, when the fight was done,
But I will beard him.
But I will delve one yard below their mines
But I will find him when he lies asleep,
But I will lift the downtrod Mortimer
But I will never be a truant, love,
But be he as he will, yet once ere night
But bear me stiffly up. Remember thee?
But better look'd into, he truly found
But by the chance of war. To prove that true
But come yourself with speed to us again;
But come!
But do not go with it!
But do not use it oft, let me entreat you.
But even his mother shall uncharge the practice
But farewell it, for I will use no art.
But from what cause he will by no means speak.
But greatly to find quarrel in a straw
But he's an arrant knave.
But how does it well? It does well to those that do ill. Now,
But if you hold it fit, after the play
But if't be he I mean, he's very wild
But in a fiction, in a dream of passion,
But in battalions! First, her father slain;
But in our circumstance and course of thought,
But in the way of bargain, mark ye me,
But is aweary of thy common sight,
But it reserv'd some quantity of choice
But keep a farm and carters.
But let him from my thoughts. What think you, coz,
But let it be. Horatio, I am dead;
But let my favours hide thy mangled face;
But let that go.
But let this same be presently perform'd,
But look, amazement on thy mother sits.
But mad in craft. 'Twere good you let him know;
But mark'd him not a word. O, he is as tedious
But mere implorators of unholy suits,
But mine I am sure thou art, whoe'er thou be,
But never the offence. To bear all smooth and even,
But not rememb'red in thy epitaph!
But not the form of what he should attend.
But now two paces of the vilest earth
But now, I do respect thee as my soul.
But on! Six Barbary horses against six French swords, their
But our cold maids do dead men's fingers call them.
But out upon this half-fac'd fellowship!
But pardon't, as you are a gentleman.
But rather drows'd and hung their eyelids down,
But shall it be that you, that set the crown
But since he is better'd, we have therefore odds.
But since, so jump upon this bloody question,
But soft! but soft! aside! Here comes the King-
But soft! methinks I scent the morning air.
But stand against us like an enemy.
But sure the bravery of his grief did put me
But that I know love is begun by time,
But that I think his father loves him not
But that the dread of something after death-
But that the earthy and cold hand of death
But that this folly douts it.                          Exit.
But this eternal blazon must not be
But this most foul, strange, and unnatural.
But this our purpose now is twelvemonth old,
But thou dost in thy passages of life
But thoughts the slave, of life, and life time's fool,
But to confront the visage of offence?
But to my charge. The King hath sent to know
But to my mind, though I am native here
But truly I do fear it.
But virtue, as it never will be mov'd,
But we will ship him hence; and this vile deed
But when they seldom come, they wish'd-for come,
But wherefore do I tell these news to thee
But will they come when you do call for them?
But wilt thou bear me how I did proceed?
But with a crafty madness keeps aloof
But with proviso and exception,
But yesternight; when all athwart there came
But yet a woman; and for secrecy,
But yet to me they are strong. The Queen his mother
But you shall hear. Thus:
But you'll be secret?
But, howsoever thou pursuest this act,
But, in the verity of extolment, I take him to be a soul of great
But, like a comet, I Was wond'red at;
But, like the owner of a foul disease,
But, seeing thou fall'st on me so luckily,
But, sir, such wanton, wild, and usual slips
But, sirrah, there's no room for faith, truth, nor honesty in
But. Tut! I came not to hear this.
Buys out the law; but 'tis not so above.
By God, I cannot flatter, I defy
By God, he shall not have a Scot of them!
By Richard that dead is, the next of blood?
By being seldom seen, I could not stir
By breaking through the foul and ugly mists
By desperate appliance are reliev'd,
By heaven, I'll make a ghost of him that lets me!-
By heaven, it is as proper to our age
By heaven, thy madness shall be paid by weight
By him for whom these shames ye underwent?
By how much better than my word I am,
By indirections find directions out.
By letters congruing to that effect,
By now forswearing that he is forsworn.
By so much shall I falsify men's hopes;
By some that know not why he is away,
By south and east is to my part assign'd;
By still dispraising praise valued with you;
By telling truth. Tell truth and shame the devil.
By that time will our book, I think, be drawn.
By the Lord, an I do not, I am a villain! I'll be damn'd for
By the imprisoning of unruly wind
By the mass, I was about to say something! Where did I leave?
By the o'ergrowth of some complexion,
By this encompassment and drift of question
By this our book is drawn; we'll but seal,
By those Welshwomen done as may not be
By unkind usage, dangerous countenance,
By'r Lady, he is a good musician.
By, smiling pickthanks and base newsmongers,
Calls virtue hypocrite; takes off the rose
Came from the North, and thus it did import:
Came there a certain lord, neat and trimly dress'd,
Can lift your blood up with persuasion.
Can play upon it. But what need I thus
Can serve my turn? 'Forgive me my foul murther'?
Can trace me in the tedious ways of art
Can you advise me?
Capitulate against us and are up.
Caps, hands, and tongues applaud it to the clouds,
Carriers, Travellers, and Attendants.
Carrying, I say, the stamp of one defect,
Charge an honest woman with picking thy pocket? Why, thou
Charles' wain is over the new chimney, and yet our horse not
Charming your blood with pleasing heaviness,
Cheerly, my lord. How fares your Grace?
Christians, nor the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man, have so
Clamb'ring to hang, an envious sliver broke,
Collected from all simples that have virtue
Colour her working with such deadly wounds;
Come current for an accusation
Come hither, gentlemen,
Come on! You hear this fellow in the cellarage.
Come short of what he did.
Come, Gertrude, we'll call up our wisest friends
Come, I will give you way for these your letters,
Come, Kate, I'll have your song too.
Come, bring your luggage nobly on your back.
Come, brother, let's to the highest of the field,
Come, come, it may not be. I wonder much,
Come, let us take a muster speedily.
Come, neighbour Mugs, we'll call up the gentlemen. They will
Come, sir, to draw toward an end with you.
Come, some music!
Come.
Come. (They play.) Another hit. What say you?
Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works.
Confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed
Conjures the wand'ring stars, and makes them stand
Conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit!
Consent to swear.
Contagion to this world. Now could I drink hot blood
Convert his gives to graces; so that my arrows,
Couch we awhile, and mark.
Could force his soul so to his own conceit
Could not (with all their quantity of love)
Could not so mope.
Could such inordinate and low desires,
Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed,
Country soldiers
Cousin, on Wednesday next our council we
Craves the conveyance of a promis'd march
Cries cuckold to my father; brands the harlot
Cries out upon abuses, seems to weep
Cry 'Courage! to the field!' And thou hast talk'd
Cry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven to earth,
Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin,
Danger and disobedience in thine eye.
Dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds.
Dear maid, kind sister, sweet Ophelia!
Death hath not struck so fat a deer to-day,
Defect of manners, want of government,
Delay it not; I'll have him hence to-night.
Deliberate pause. Diseases desperate grown
Deliver them up without their ransom straight,
Deliver up my Lord of Westmoreland.
Denmark?- What, my young lady and mistress? By'r Lady, your
Depriv'd thee of! Hold off the earth awhile,
Devis'd a new commission; wrote it fair.
Devoutly to be wish'd. To die- to sleep.
Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy
Did gage them both in an unjust behalf
Did give him that same royalty he wears;
Did hear a challenge urg'd more modestly,
Did lately meet in the intestine shock
Did not together pluck such envy from him
Did the king sigh, but with a general groan.
Did you not tell me this fat man was dead?
Dies in his own too-much. That we would do,
Dies not alone, but like a gulf doth draw
Directly unto this question that I ask.
Discomfited great Douglas; ta'en him once,
Diseased nature oftentimes breaks forth
Disgrac'd me in my happy victories,
Dismiss his power, he means to visit us,
Ditch?
Divided from herself and her fair-judgment,
Do I not bate? Do I not dwindle? Why, my skin hangs about me like
Do make against it. No, good Worcester, no!
Do not believe his vows; for they are brokers,
Do not itself unkennel in one speech,
Do you believe his tenders, as you call them?
Does by their own insinuation grow.
Doom'd for a certain term to walk the night,
Doomsday is near. Die all, die merrily.
Dost thou hear me, old friend? Can you play 'The Murther of
Doth all the noble substance often dout To his own scandal.
Doth not thy blood thrill at it?
Doth play the trumpet to his purposes
Doth speak of you, his cheek looks pale, and with
Drabbing. You may go so far.
Drag back our expedition. Certain horse
Drink off this potion! Is thy union here?
Drives him beyond the bounds of patience.
Each small annexment, petty consequence,
Each takes his fellow for an officer.
Each toy seems Prologue to some great amiss.
Ears without hands or eyes, smelling sans all,
Eastcheap. They call drinking deep, dying scarlet; and when
Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste
Either envy, therefore, or misprision
Else could you not have motion; but sure that sense
Elsinore.
Embowell'd will I see thee by-and-by;
Enfeoff'd himself to popularity;
England did never owe so sweet a hope,
England, from Trent and Severn hitherto,
English in his life than 'Eight shillings and sixpence,' and 'You
Enlarged him, and made a friend of him,
Enquire me first what Danskers are in Paris;
Enter Fortinbras and English Ambassadors, with Drum,
Enter King, Queen, Laertes, Osric, and Lords, with other
Enter [priests with] a coffin [in funeral procession], King,
Enter a King and a Queen very lovingly; the Queen embracing
Envy your great deservings and good name,
Ere break the smallest parcel of this vow.
Ere he by sickness had been visited.
Even at the heels in golden multitudes.
Even for an eggshell. Rightly to be great
Even here between the chaste unsmirched brows
Even in the bosom of our adversaries.
Even in the presence of the crowned King.
Even in their promise, as it is a-making,
Even on the pith of life. Where is he gone?
Even to the teeth and forehead of our faults,
Even while men's minds are wild, lest more mischance
Even with the bloody payment of your deaths.
Even with the rebels' blood. But what mean I
Even with the very comment of thy soul
Exceedingly well read, and profited
Exchange forgiveness with me, noble Hamlet.
Excitements of my reason and my blood,
Exposing what is mortal and unsure
Eyes without feeling, feeling without sight,
Fall ten times treble on that cursed head
Fall'n on th' inventors' heads. All this can I
Falstaff, and therefore more valiant being, as he is, old Jack
Falstaff, banish not him thy Harry's company, banish not him thy
Falstaff, kind Jack Falstaff, true Jack Falstaff, valiant Jack
Falstaff. I'll play Percy, and that damn'd brawn shall play Dame
Fare you well, my dove!
Farewell, dear mother.
Farewell.
Farewell. My blessing season this in thee!
Feeds on his wonder, keep, himself in clouds,
Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide
Fell into a sadness, then into a fast,
Fie upon't! foh! About, my brain! Hum, I have heard
Find we a time for frighted peace to pant
Finger'd their packet, and in fine withdrew
Fits a dull fighter and a keen guest.                  Exit.
Fix'd on the summit of the highest mount,
Folded the writ up in the form of th' other,
Follow my mother.                                 King dies.
For 'tis the sport to have the enginer
For England.
For God's sake, cousin, stay till all come in.
For Hecuba!
For I mine eyes will rivet to his face,
For I myself at this time have employ'd him.
For I profess not talking. Only this-
For I shall never hold that man my friend
For I was train'd up in the English court,
For anything he shall be charg'd withal;
For art and exercise in your defence,
For by that name as oft as Lancaster
For by the image of my cause I see
For doing these fair rites of tenderness.
For every honour sitting on his helm,
For every man hath business and desire,
For fear of swallowing; but with nimble wing
For good Polonius' death, and we have done but greenly
For goodness, growing to a plurisy,
For he hath heard of our confederacy,
For he that brought them, in the very heat
For he was likely, had he been put on,
For her perfections. But my revenge will come.
For if Lord Percy thrive not, ere the King
For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
For in the fatness of these pursy times
For like the hectic in my blood he rages,
For look you how cheerfully my mother looks, and my father died
For me, with sorrow I embrace my fortune.
For mine own part, I could be well content
For more is to be said and to be done
For more uneven and unwelcome news
For murther, though it have no tongue, will speak
For my part, I do not lie in't, yet it is mine.
For my part, I may speak it to my shame,
For my part, if a lie may do thee grace,
For nothing can seem foul to those that win.
For of no right, nor colour like to right,
For our advantage on the bitter cross.
For out o' doors he went without their help
For powers In Scotland; which, for divers reasons
For some displeasing service I have done,
For tears do stop the floodgates of her eyes.
For that which thou hast done,- must send thee hence
For the demand of our neglected tribute.
For the hot vengeance and the rod of heaven
For the supply and profit of our hope,
For there will be a world of water shed
For this advertisement is five days old.
For this effect defective comes by cause.
For thou hast lost thy princely privilege
For treason is but trusted like the fox
For use almost can change the stamp of nature,
For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither,
For we shall presently have need of you.
For we will fetters put upon this fear,
For well you know we of the off'ring side
For what advancement may I hope from thee,
For what offence have I this fortnight been
For who that's but a queen, fair, sober, wise,
For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,
For you my staff of office did I break
For your desire to know what is between us,
For, as he writes, there is no quailing now,
For, bear ourselves as even as we can,
For, heaven to earth, some of us never shall
For, on their answer, will we set on them,
For, though I am not splenitive and rash,
Forbade my tongue to speak of Mortimer,
Fordo it own life. 'Twas of some estate.
Foretells a tempest and a blust'ring day.
Forgot your oath to us at Doncaster;
Forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep;
Forthwith a power of English shall we levy,
Four rogues in buckram let drive at me.
Francis, a Thursday; or indeed, Francis, when thou wilt. But
Francis-
Francis. They take it already upon their salvation that, though
Free me so far in your most generous thoughts
Fresh as a bridegroom; and his chin new reap'd
Friends both, go join you with some further aid.
From fashion of himself. What think you on't?
From me, whose love was of that dignity
From our achievements, though perform'd at height,
From that particular fault. The dram of e'il
From the fair forehead of an innocent love,
From whence he intercepted did return
From whom you now must steal and take no leave,
Full of high feeding, madly hath broke loose
Gadshill lies to-night in Rochester. I have bespoke supper
Gelding the opposed continent as much
Get from him why he puts on this confusion,
Get you a place.
Give him the cup.
Give him their heirs as pages, followed him
Give me my father!
Give me one poor request.
Give me the cup. Let go! By heaven, I'll ha't.
Give us the foils. Come on.
Give you a reason on compulsion? If reasons were as plentiful as
Give, me superfluous death.                  A noise within.
Given private time to you, and you yourself
Gives him three thousand crowns in annual fee
Giving more light than heat, extinct in both
Glendower? Is there not, besides, the Douglas? Have I not all
Glittering in golden coats like images;
Go on. I'll follow thee.
Go seek him out; speak fair, and bring the body
Go to the Douglas and deliver him
Go to the King; and let there be impawn'd
Go to their graves like beds, fight for a plot
Go to your rest; at night we'll feast together.
Go, Poins, to horse, to horse; for thou and I
Go, bid the soldiers shoot.
God bless you, sir!
God help the wicked! If to be old and merry be a sin, then many
God willing, shall not lack. Let us go in together;
Gonzago'?
Good Gertrude, set some watch over your son.-
Good cousin, give me audience for a while.
Good gentlemen, give him a further edge
Good my lord, will you see the players well bestow'd? Do you
Good night, mother.
Good night- but go not to my uncle's bed.
Good uncle, tell your tale, for I have done.
Grace?
Grating so harshly all his days of quiet
Grew a companion to the common streets,
Grew, by our feeding to so great a bulk
Grop'd I to find out them; had my desire,
Had I but time (as this fell sergeant, Death,
Had I so lavish of my presence been,
Had been alive this hour,
Had he the motive and the cue for passion
Had his great name profaned with their scorns
Had it th' ability of life to thank you.
Had still kept loyal to possession
Had witchcraft in't. He grew unto his seat,
Hamlet comes back. What would you undertake
Hamlet in madness hath Polonius slain,
Hamlet is of the faction that is wrong'd;
Hamlet the Dane.                    [Leaps in after Laertes.
Hang him, let him tell the King! we are prepared. I will set
Hang in the air a thousand leagues from hence,
Haply the seas, and countries different,
Harry to Harry shall, hot horse to horse,
Harry's company. Banish plump Jack, and banish all the world!
Harry, withdraw thyself; thou bleedest too much.
Hast no faith in thee?
Hast ta'en with equal thanks; and blest are those
Hath beaten down young Hotspur and his troops,
Hath faulty wand'red and irregular,
Hath followed certain men unto this house.
Hath given me this. Now gather, and surmise.
Hath lately married. Shall our coffers, then,
Hath op'd his ponderous and marble jaws
Hath scald thee for herself. For thou hast been
Hath taught us how to cherish such high deeds,
Hath turn'd itself on me. Lo, here I lie,
Have any way your good deserts forgot,
Have burst their cerements; why the sepulchre
Have by the very cunning of the scene
Have holp to make so portly.
Have in this robbery lost three hundred marks.
Have of your audience been most free and bounteous.
Have thirty miles to ride yet ere dinner time.
Have you so slander any moment leisure
Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes
Hazard so near us as doth hourly grow
He answers:
He bids you name your griefs, and with all speed
He call'd them untaught knaves, unmannerly,
He calls us rebels, traitors, aid will scourge
He came but to be Duke of Lancaster,
He cannot draw his power this fourteen days.
He closes thus: 'I know the gentleman.
He closes with you in this consequence:
He did confound the best part of an hour
He doth fill fields with harness in the realm,
He durst as well have met the devil alone
He falls to such perusal of my face
He gave his nose, and took't away again;
He gave you all the duties of a man;
He hath more worthy interest to the state
He held me last night at least nine hours
He holds your temper in a high respect
He likewise gives a frock or livery,
He made a blushing cital of himself,
He never did encounter with Glendower.
He never did fall off, my sovereign liege,
He never gave commandment for their death.
He presently, as greatness knows itself,
He questioned me, amongst the rest demanded
He rais'd a sigh so piteous and profound
He said he would not ransom Mortimer,
He seem'd to find his way without his eyes,
He shall be answerable; and so farewell.
He should the bearers put to sudden death,
He should, or he should not; for he made me mad
He swore had neither motion, guard, nor eye,
He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found
He that hath kill'd my king, and whor'd my mother;
He took my father grossly, full of bread,
He was but as the cuckoo is in June,
He was much fear'd by his physicians.
He was perfumed like a milliner,
He will suspect us still and find a time
He would himself have been a soldier.
He writes me here that inward sickness-
He'll breed revengement and a scourge for me;
He's for a jig or a tale of bawdry, or he sleeps. Say on; come to
He's lov'd of the distracted multitude,
Heard, not regarded- seen, but with such eyes
Hecuba.
Heir to the crown?
Help, help, ho!
Her brother is in secret come from France;
Her father and myself (lawful espials)
Her maiden strewments, and the bringing home
Her mood will needs be pitied.
Hercules; but beware instinct. The lion will not touch the true
Here come our wives, and let us take our leave.
Here comes lean Jack; here comes bare-bone. How now, my sweet
Here comes your cousin.
Here comes your uncle.
Here in the lobby.
Here is your husband, like a mildew'd ear
Here was a gentleman of Normandy.
Here's to thy health.
Here's yet some liquor left.
Here, Hamlet, take my napkin, rub thy brows.
Here, as before, never, so help you mercy,
Herein misled by your suggestion.
High on a stage be placed to the view;
His access to me.
His brother's death at Bristow, the Lord Scroop.
His brother-in-law, the foolish Mortimer;
His cushes on his thighs, gallantly arm'd,
His father's death and our o'erhasty marriage.
His form and cause conjoin'd, preaching to stones,
His glorious deeds for my indignities.
His health was never better worth than now.
His liberty is full of threats to all-
His madness is poor Hamlet's enemy.
His means of death, his obscure funeral-
His nephew's levies; which to him appear'd
His silence will sit drooping.
His uncle York- where I first bow'd my knee
His valour shown upon our crests today
Hoist with his own petar; and 't shall go hard
Holds from all soldiers chief majority
Holds such an enmity with blood of man
Horatio. A fellow of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy. He
How all occasions do inform against me
How dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
How does my good Lord Hamlet?
How does your honour for this many a day?
How dost thou, good lord?' This might be my Lord Such-a-one, that
How goes the field?
How in my words somever she be shent,
How much I had to do to calm his rage I
How much they do import, you would make haste.
How now O What hath befall'n?
How now, Dame Partlet the hen? Have you enquir'd yet who pick'd
How now, Kate? I must leave you within these two hours.
How now, Ophelia? What's the matter?
How now, good Blunt? Thy looks are full of speed.
How now, lad? Is the wind in that door, i' faith? Must we all
How now, my lord? Will the King hear this piece of work?
How now, sweet queen?
How now? What news?
How scapes he agues, in the devil's name
How show'd his tasking? Seem'd it in contempt?
How smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience!
How strange or odd soe'er I bear myself
How these things came about. So shall You hear
How to forget that learning; but, sir, now
How, now, my Lord of Worcester? 'Tis not well
Howe'er my haps, my joys were ne'er begun.             Exit.
Hunts not the trail of policy so sure
Hyperion's curls; the front of Jove himself;
I am afeard You make a wanton of me.
I am afraid my daughter will run mad,
I am an honest man's wife, and, setting thy knight-hood aside,
I am content that he shall take the odds
I am dead, Horatio. Wretched queen, adieu!
I am joined with no foot land-rakers, no long-staff sixpenny
I am justly kill'd with mine own treachery.
I am more an antique Roman than a Dane.
I am not in the roll of common men.
I am sorry that with better heed and judgment
I am sure I have paid, two rogues in buckram suits. I tell thee
I am the Douglas, fatal to all those
I am the Prince of Wales; and think not, Percy,
I am too perfect in; and, but for shame,
I am very proud, revengeful, ambitious; with more offences at my
I and a true man.
I answered indirectly, as I said,
I be but Prince of Wales, yet I am the king of courtesy; and tell
I be so able as now.
I better brook the loss of brittle life
I bought an unction of a mountebank,
I bring you certain news from Shrewsbury.
I can no more. The King, the King's to blame.
I cannot dream of. I entreat you both
I cannot live to hear the news from England,
I care not for thee, Kate. This is no world
I chiefly lov'd. 'Twas AEneas' tale to Dido, and thereabout of it
I could a tale unfold whose lightest word
I could have better spar'd a better man.
I could not but by her. The other motive
I dare damnation. To this point I stand,
I did not think thee lord of such a spirit.
I did repel his letters and denied
I do beseech your Majesty may salve
I do not bear these crossings. Give me leave
I do not know from what part of the world
I do not set my life at a pin's fee;
I do not think a braver gentleman,
I do receive your offer'd love like love,
I do repent; but heaven hath pleas'd it so,
I fear my brother Mortimer doth stir
I fear the power of Percy is too weak
I guess their tenour.
I ha't!
I had forgot! 'Tis so concluded on.
I had my father's signet in my purse,
I had not quoted him. I fear'd he did but trifle
I had rather be a kitten and cry mew
I had rather hear a brazen canstick turn'd
I have a daughter (have while she is mine),
I have a speech of fire, that fain would blaze
I have a truant been to chivalry;
I have a voice and precedent of peace
I have forgot the map.
I have in quick determination
I have not sought the day of this dislike.
I have seen myself, and serv'd against, the French,
I have some rights of memory in this kingdom
I have sworn't.
I have taken note of it, the age is grown so picked that the toe
I hold as little counsel with weak fear
I hold it fit that we shake hands and part;
I hold my duty as I hold my soul,
I hop'd thou shouldst have been my Hamlet's wife;
I know my course. The spirit that I have seen
I know not whether God will have it so,
I know you wise; but yet no farther wise
I learn'd in Worcester, as I rode along,
I lov'd you ever. But it is no matter.
I lov'd your father, and we love ourself,
I love him well; he is an honest man.
I love thee infinitely. But hark you. Kate:
I made to her in marriage, and to decline
I may dispose of him.
I may, for some things true wherein my youth
I must be cruel, only to be kind;
I must not have you henceforth question me
I need no more weight than mine own bowels. I have led my
I never dealt better since I was a man. All would not do. A
I never gave you aught.
I never had triumph'd upon a Scot.
I once did hold it, as our statists do,
I pray you go with me.
I pray you, now receive them.
I prithee lend me thy sword.
I prithee speak. We will not trust our eyes
I prithee take thy fingers from my throat;
I prithee, when thou seest that act afoot,
I rather of his absence make this use:
I run before King Harry's victory,
I saw him yesterday, or t'other day,
I saw young Harry with his beaver on
I say unto you again, you are a shallow, cowardly hind, and you
I say, away!- Go on. I'll follow thee.
I shall be out of heart shortly, and then I shall have no
I shall have none but Mordake Earl of Fife.
I should be greeted, if not from Lord Hamlet.
I should have fatted all the region kites
I should not make so dear a show of zeal.
I speak not this in estimation,
I speak of peace while covert emnity,
I stand aloof, and will no reconcilement
I stand in pause where I shall first begin,
I tell thee
I then, all smarting with my wounds being cold,
I thought thy bride-bed to have deck'd, sweet maid,
I took thee for thy better. Take thy fortune.
I turn upon the true prince? Why, thou knowest I am as valiant as
I understand thy kisses, and thou mine,
I warrant you that man is not alive
I will assay thee. So defend thyself.
I will be brief. Your noble son is mad.
I will bestow him, and will answer well
I will embrace him with a soldier's arm,
I will from henceforth rather be myself,
I will not love myself. Do you not love me?
I will not send them. I will after straight
I will redeem all this on Percy's head
I will speak daggers to her, but use none.
I will win for him if I can; if not, I will gain nothing but my
I would have him poisoned with a pot of ale.
I would know that.
I would not, in plain terms, from this time forth
I would your store were here! On, bacons on! What, ye knaves!
I your commission will forthwith dispatch,
I'll be sworn my pocket was pick'd. Go to, you are a woman, go!
I'll blessing beg of you.- For this same lord,
I'll board him presently. O, give me leave.
I'll break thy little finger, Harry,
I'll call upon you ere you go to bed
I'll cavil on the ninth part of a hair
I'll crop to make a garland for my head.
I'll do't. Dost thou come here to whine?
I'll fear thee as I fear thy father? Nay, an I do, I pray God my
I'll gild it with the happiest terms I have.
I'll haste the writer, and withal
I'll have a starling shall be taught to speak
I'll have the current ill this place damm'd up,
I'll hide me.                                          Exit.
I'll keep them, by this hand!
I'll know your business, Harry; that I will!
I'll lug the guts into the neighbour room.-
I'll murder all his wardrop, piece by piece,
I'll not bear mine own flesh so far afoot again for all the coin
I'll rant as well as thou.
I'll read you matter deep and dangerous,
I'll see thee hang'd first!
I'll so offend to make offence a skill,
I'll steal to Glendower and Lord Mortimer,
I'll tent him to the quick. If he but blench,
I'll wipe away all trivial fond records,
I, from the orient to the drooping west,
I, his sole son, do this same villain send
If Hamlet from himself be taken away,
If Hamlet give the first or second hit,
If I had play'd the desk or table book,
If I were much in love with vanity!
If all the year were playing holidays,
If aught of woe or wonder, cease your search.
If by direct or by collateral hand
If circumstances lead me, I will find
If damned custom have not braz'd it so
If die, brave death, when princes die with us!
If he by chance escape your venom'd stuck,
If he outlive the envy of this day,
If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing,
If his chief good and market of his time
If his fitness speaks, mine is ready; now or whensoever, provided
If it be made of penetrable stuff;
If it be so- as so 'tis put on me,
If it shall please you to make me a wholesome answer, I will do
If it were so, I might have let alone
If life did ride upon a dial's point,
If like a Christian thou hadst truly borne
If not, the end of life cancels all bands,
If once they join in trial. Tell your nephew
If one could match you. The scrimers of their nation
If promises be kept oil every hand,
If that the devil and mischance look big
If this did blast in proof. Soft! let me see.
If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones,
If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart,
If thou didst ever thy dear father love-
If thou didst, then behold that compound.
If thou have power to raise him, bring him hither,
If thou wert sensible of courtesy,
If we, without his help, can make a head
If well-respected honour bid me on
If you desire to know the certainty
If you oppos'd them. Sir, this report of his
If you suppose as fearing you it shook.
If you vouchsafe me hearing and respect.
If't be th' affliction of his love, or no,
Ill-spirited Worcester! did not we send grace,
Ill-weav'd ambition, how much art thou shrunk!
Imperious Caesar, dead and turn'd to clay,
Importing Denmark's health, and England's too,
Importing health and graveness. Two months since
In Denmark's crown have worn. Give me the cups;
In Richard's time, and posted day and night
In Richard's time- what do you call the place-
In a new channel fair and evenly.
In any case, the offer of the King.
In any summer house in Christendom).
In censure of his seeming.
In changing hardiment with great Glendower.
In cradle clothes our children where they lay,
In deputation left behind him here
In ear and ear. O my dear Gertrude, this,
In envy that my Lord Northumberland
In forwarding this dear expedience.
In further evil?
In general journey-bated and brought low.
In his true nature, and we ourselves compell'd,
In honourable fashion.
In hugger-mugger to inter him; Poor Ophelia
In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart,
In my heart's love hath no man than yourself.
In noise so rude against me?
In passion shook.
In praise of Henry Percy. By my hopes,
In quantity equals not one of yours.
In rage dismiss'd my father from the court;
In reckoning up the several devils' names
In short time after lie depos'd the King;
In single opposition hand to hand,
In strange concealments, valiant as a lion,
In strange eruptions; oft the teeming earth
In such a Barley should I answer thee.
In such a justling time? Who leads his power?
In the adventure of this perilous day.
In the corrupted currents of this world
In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,
In thee there is not half an hour of life.
In this distracted globe. Remember thee?
In this fair rescue thou hast brought to me.
In this fine age were not thought flattery,
In thy faint slumbers I by thee have watch'd,
Indeed his king) to be engag'd in Wales,
Indeed would make one think there might be thought,
Infects unseen. Confess yourself to heaven;
Interpretation will misquote our looks,
Into a tow'ring passion.
Into his title, the which we find
Into the chapel. I pray you haste in this.
Into the good thoughts of the world again;
Into the madness wherein now he raves,
Into three limits very equally.
Irregular humourists
Is Bridgenorth; and, Harry, you shall march
Is Gilliams with the packet gone?
Is apoplex'd; for madness would not err,
Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
Is by a forged process of my death
Is guilty of this fault, and not my son.
Is it not monstrous that this player here,
Is marching hitherwards; with him Prince John.
Is not more ugly to the thing that helps it
Is not to stir without great argument,
Is now most still, most secret, and most grave,
Is room enough. This earth that bears thee dead
Is ruin'd, and the soul of every man
Is ruminated, plotted, and set down,
Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,
Is strict in his arrest) O, I could tell you-
Is the great love the general gender bear him,
Is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens
Is thought with child by the stern tyrant war,
Is thought-sick at the act.
Is to come in.
Is very cunning in.
Is with a kind of colic pinch'd and vex'd
It could not move thus.
It did me yeoman's service. Wilt thou know
It had been so with us, had we been there.
It hath the excuse of youth and heat of blood,
It hath the primal eldest curse upon't,
It is 'Adieu, adieu! Remember me.'
It is a conquest for a prince to boast of.
It is a damned ghost that we have seen,
It is a poison temper'd by himself.
It is an honest ghost, that let me tell you.
It is not possible, it cannot be
It is our trick; nature her custom holds,
It is the Prince of Wales that threatens thee,
It it rain'd down fortune show'ring on your head,
It lends a lustre and more great opinion,
It may be death.
It sends some precious instance of itself
It shall as level to your judgment pierce
It shall not wind with such a deep indent
It spills itself in fearing to be spilt.
It warms the very sickness in my heart
It was against your Highness; whereat griev'd,
It was myself, my brother, and his son
It waves me forth again. I'll follow it.
It waves you to a more removed ground.
It were not good; for therein should we read
It will be laid to us, whose providence
It will but skin and film the ulcerous place,
Jack Falstaff, then am I a Jack. There 's Percy. If your father
Jack, meet me to-morrow in the Temple Hall
John. You owe me money, Sir John, and now you pick a quarrel to
Keep in a little life? Poor Jack, farewell!
Keeps wassail, and the swagg'ring upspring reels,
Kendal green came at my back and let drive at me; for it was so
King's coming down the hill; 'tis going to the King's exchequer.
King, father, royal Dane. O, answer me?
King. 'Tis deeply sworn. Sweet, leave me here awhile.
King. Faith, I must leave thee, love, and shortly too;
King. Full thirty times hath Phoebus' cart gone round
King. I do believe you think what now you speak;
Knows at what time to promise, when to pay.
Laertes before you fall to play.
Laid gifts before him, proffer'd him their oaths,
Larded with many several sorts of reasons,
Last, and as such containing as all these,
Lay not that flattering unction to your soul
Leading the men of Herefordshire to fight
Leads ancient lords and reverend Bishops on
Leave us.
Leave wringing of your hinds. Peace! sit you down
Led by a delicate and tender prince,
Lends mettle to us all!                                Exit.
Lends the tongue vows. These blazes, daughter,
Lest Your retirement do amaze your friends.
Lest with this piteous action you convert
Let Hercules himself do what he may,
Let all the battlements their ordnance fire;
Let come what comes; only I'll be reveng'd
Let each man do his best; and here draw I
Let him go, Gertrude. Do not fear our person.
Let his queen mother all alone entreat him
Let it be seen to-morrow in the battle
Let me be cruel, not unnatural;
Let me be no assistant for a state,
Let me not burst in ignorance, but tell
Let me not hear you speak of Mortimer.
Let my disclaiming from a purpos'd evil
Let not the royal bed of Denmark be
Let shame say what it will. When these are gone,
Let the birds fly, and like the famous ape,
Let the bloat King tempt you again to bed;
Let us not leave till all our own be won.
Lies crafty-sick. The posts come tiring on,
Lies on my tongue. No, Percy, thou art dust,
Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause,
Like a good child and a true gentleman.
Like bubbles ill a late-disturbed stream,
Like quills upon the fretful porpentine.
Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune and harsh;
Like to a murd'ring piece, in many places
Like wonder-wounded hearers? This is I,
Live scandaliz'd and foully spoken of.
Lives almost by his looks; and for myself,-
Look how we can, or sad or merrily,
Look to't, I charge you. Come your ways.
Look where he goes even now out at the portal!
Look you, I'll go pray.
Look, 'when his infant fortune came to age,'
Looking before and after, gave us not
Lord Hamlet, with his doublet all unbrac'd,
Lord John of Lancaster, go you unto him.
Lord Mortimer of Scotland hath sent word
Lord Stafford's death.
Lord of York commends the plot and the general course of the
Lord, I'll stab thee.
Lord, we know what we are, but know not what we may be. God be at
Loseth men's hearts, and leaves behind a stain
Loud shouts and salutations from their mouths
Luc. Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time agreeing;
Mad call I it; for, to define true madness,
Mad let us grant him then. And now remains
Made to my father, while his blood was poor,
Madness in great ones must not unwatch'd go.         Exeunt.
Make Ossa like a wart! Nay, an thou'lt mouth,
Make blind itself with foolish tenderness.
Make choice of whom your wisest friends you will,
Make fearful musters and prepar'd defence,
Make mad the guilty and appal the free,
Make me believe that thou art only mark'd
Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres,
Make up my sum. What wilt thou do for her?
Make you to ravel all this matter out,
Makes Welsh as sweet as ditties highly penn'd,
Makes mouths at the invisible event,
Makes us traduc'd and tax'd of other nations;
Makes vow before his uncle never more
Making night hideous, and we fools of nature
Making such difference 'twixt wake and sleep
Making the wind my post-horse, still unfold
Making you ever better than his praise
Malevolent to you In all aspects,
Many a nobleman lies stark and stiff
Many an English ditty lovely well,
March all one way and be no more oppos'd
Marian may be the deputy's wife of the ward to thee. Go, you
Mark how he bears his course, and runs me up
Mark the encounter. If he love her not,
Mark you,
May be a devil; and the devil hath power
May do t' express his love and friending to you,
May fit us to our shape. If this should fall,
May one be pardon'd and retain th' offence?
May reasonably die, and never rise
May sweep to my revenge.
May turn the tide of fearful faction
May violets spring! I tell thee, churlish priest,
Meantime we thank you for your well-took labour.
Meet, and ne'er part till one drop down a corse.
Meeting the check of such another day;
Meets with Lord Harry; and I fear, Sir Michael,
Met him on boroughs, cities, villages,
Might so have tempted him as you have done
Might stop a hole to keep the wind away.
Might, by the sovereign power you have of us,
Mighty and to be fear'd, than my condition,
Millions of acres on us, till our ground,
Mine and my father's death come not upon thee,
Mingled his royalty with cap'ring fools;
Minions of the Moon; and let men say we be men of good
Misuse the tenour of thy kinsman's trust?
Money and order for their furniture.
Mordake Earl of Fife and eldest son
Mordake, and a thousand bluecaps more. Worcester is stol'n away
More active-valiant or more valiant-young,
More daring or more bold, is now alive
More grief to hide than hate to utter love.
More honour'd in the breach than the observance.
More relative than this. The play's the thing
More than a little is by much too much.
More than his father's death, that thus hath put him
More than in words?
Moreover that we much did long to see you,
Mortimer his wife. 'Rivo!' says the drunkard. Call in ribs, call
Most free in his reply.
Most generous, and free from all contriving,
Most holy and religious fear it is
Most lazar-like, with vile and loathsome crust
Most throughly for my father.
Most welcome home!                       Exeunt Ambassadors.
Mother, good night.- Indeed, this counsellor
Much heat and him. I'll silence me even here.
Must (like a whore) unpack my heart with words
Must bide the touch; for, sir, at Shrewsbury,
Must give us pause. There's the respect
Must have a stop. O, I could prophesy,
Must have some private conference; but be near at hand,
Must keep aloof from strict arbitrement,
Must render up myself.
My Lord of Westmoreland, lead him to his tent.
My brother shall know of it; and so I thank you for your good
My crown, mine own ambition, and my queen.
My custom always of the afternoon,
My father Glendower is not ready yet,
My father and Glendower being both away,
My father and my uncle and myself
My father gave him welcome to the shore;
My father, in his habit as he liv'd!
My father, in kind heart and pity mov'd,
My fault is past. But, O, what form of prayer
My good friends, I'll leave you till night. You are welcome to
My head should be struck off.
My liege, and madam, to expostulate
My lord, not I.
My nephew's trespass may be well forgot;
My news shall be the fruit to that great feast.
My presence, like a robe pontifical,
My prisoners in your Majesty's behalf.
My pulse as yours doth temperately keep time
My reformation, glitt'ring o'er my fault,
My sea-gown scarf'd about me, in the dark
My shames redoubled! For the time will come
My soul is full of discord and dismay.
My stern effects. Then what I have to do
My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent,
My tables! Meet it is I set it down
My thoughts be bloody, or be nothing worth!            Exit.
My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites-
My too much changed son.- Go, some of you,
My uncle?
My virtue or my plague, be it either which,-
My well-known body to anatomize
My wife can speak no English, I no Welsh.
Myself and you, son Harry, will towards Wales
Myself of many I am charged withal.
Nature is fine in love, and where 'tis fine,
Nay, come, let's go together.
Nay, task me to my word; approve me, lord.
Nay, tell me if you speak in jest or no.
Nay;
Ne'er seen but wond'red at; and so my state,
Needs no more but one tongue for all those wounds,
Nettled, and stung with pismires when I hear
Never did base and rotten policy
Never to hold it up again! The spirits
Never to rise again. Thy mother's poison'd.
Never to speak of this that you have heard:
New lighted on a heaven-kissing hill:
Next, Your son gone, and he most violent author
No hat upon his head, his stockings foul'd,
No lady closer, for I well believe
No man so potent breathes upon the ground
No medicine in the world can do thee good.
No more shall cut his master. Therefore, friends,
No more shall trenching war channel her fields,
No more the thirsty entrance of this soil
No more to undertake it, I will work him
No more, sweet Hamlet!
No more; and by a sleep to say we end
No noble rite nor formal ostentation,-
No reckoning made, but sent to my account
No traveller returns- puzzles the will,
No trophy, sword, nor hatchment o'er his bones,
No! yet time serves wherein you may redeem
No, by my soul. I never in my life
No, if a Scot would save his soul, he shall not.
No, in despite of sense and secrecy,
No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp,
No, not to stay the finding of the axe,
No, on the barren mountains let him starve!
No.
Nor Bruise her flow'rets with the armed hoofs
Nor can one England brook a double reign
Nor claim no further than your new-fall'n right,
Nor moody beggars, starving for a time
Nor never could the noble Mortimer
Nor sense to ecstacy was ne'er so thrall'd
Nor shall we need his help these fourteen days.
Nor thine on me!                                       Dies.
Nor what he spake, though it lack'd form a little,
Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole
Northumberland, and that sprightly Scot of Scots, Douglas, that
Not of that dye which their investments show,
Not shriving time allow'd.
Nothing but 'Mortimer,' and give it him
Nothing confutes me but eyes, and nobody sees me. Therefore,
Nothing so much as mincing poetry.
Nothing so strong and fortunate as I.
Now I am alone.
Now fear I this will give it start again;
Now for our consciences, the arms are fair,
Now pile your dust upon the quick and dead
Now see that noble and most sovereign reason,
Now wears his crown.
Now, Esperance! Percy! and set on.
Now, Master Sheriff, what is your will with me?
Now, by my sceptre, and my soul to boot,
Now, my masters, for a true face and good conscience.
Now, out of this-
Now, when the lords and barons of the realm
O Hamlet, what a falling-off was there,
O gentlemen, the time of life is short!
O good Horatio, what a wounded name
O heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever
O heat, dry up my brains! Tears seven times salt
O heavens! is't possible a young maid's wits
O heavy burthen!
O limed soul, that, struggling to be free,
O most pernicious woman!
O shame! where is thy blush? Rebellious hell,
O thou vile king,
O villain, villain, smiling, damned villain!
O what a rogue and peasant slave am I!
O wicked wit and gifts, that have the power
O wretched state! O bosom black as death!
O'er which his melancholy sits on brood;
O'er whom his very madness, like some ore
O'erbears Your offices. The rabble call him lord;
O'ermaster't as you may. And now, good friends,
O, I could wish this tavern were my drum!
O, I should have a heavy miss of thee
O, ho!
O, my offence is rank, it smells to heaven;
O, pardon me that I descend so low
O, say!
O, sir, your presence is too bold and peremptory,
O, step between her and her fighting soul
O, that that earth which kept the world in awe
O, the devil take such cozeners!- God forgive me!
O, the recorders! Let me see one. To withdraw with you- why do
O, this is counter, you false Danish dogs!
O, this is the poison of deep grief; it springs
O, vengeance!
O, while you live, tell truth and shame the devil!
O, you must wear your rue with a difference! There's a daisy. I
Observe my uncle. If his occulted guilt
Of Hamlet's transformation. So I call it,
Of Hamlet's wildness. So shall I hope your virtues
Of Harry Percy and the Prince of Wales.
Of Murray, Angus, and Menteith.
Of accidental judgments, casual slaughters;
Of all our fortunes.
Of all our purposes. What say you to it?
Of all the court and princes of my blood.
Of all the favourites that the absent King
Of all their conference. If she find him not,
Of any prince so wild a libertine.
Of basilisks, of cannon, culverin,
Of bell and burial.
Of blue Olympus.
Of broached mischief to the unborn times?
Of burning cressets, and at my birth
Of carnal, bloody and unnatural acts;
Of crowflowers, nettles, daisies, and long purples,
Of death or death's hand for this one half-year.
Of deaths put on by cunning and forc'd cause;
Of estimation and command in arms.
Of every beardless vain comparative;
Of favour from myself and all our house;
Of fickle changelings and poor discontents,
Of gallant warriors, noble gentlemen.
Of general assault.
Of guns and drums and wounds- God save the mark!-
Of habits evil, is angel yet in this,
Of him that brought them.
Of his affection to me.
Of his behaviour.
Of his great name and estimation,
Of his oath-breaking; which he mended thus,
Of his own just remove; the people muddied,
Of his true state.
Of hostile paces. Those opposed eyes
Of hurlyburly innovation.
Of life, of crown, of queen, at once dispatch'd;
Of man and country-
Of mighty opposites.
Of murtherous subornation- shall it be
Of my cousin Vernon's are not yet come up.
Of my true mother.
Of my wive's brother, then his cheek look'd pale,
Of my young Harry. O that it could be prov'd
Of our proceedings kept the Earl from hence.
Of palisadoes, frontiers, parapets,
Of pell-mell havoc and confusion.
Of prisoners' ransom, and of soldiers slain,
Of sallies and retires, of trenches, tent,
Of such an ungrown warrior.
Of teaching and of learning instantly.
Of that occasion that shall bring it on.
Of that same noble prelate well-belov'd,
Of the King's party
Of the dreamer Merlin and his prophecies,
Of the unworthiest siege.
Of thinking too precisely on th' event,-
Of this proud king, who studies day and night
Of this vile politician, Bolingbroke.
Of this young Percy's pride? The prisoners
Of those effects for which I did the murther-
Of valiant Shirley, Stafford, Blunt are in my arms.
Of vapours that did seem to strangle him.
Of you, my gentle cousin Westmoreland,
Of your dear father's death, is't writ in Your revenge
Of your precedent lord; a vice of kings;
Offence's gilded hand may shove by justice,
Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason,
On Fortinbras. He has my dying voice.
On Fortinbras; which he, in brief, obeys,
On Fortune's cap we are not the very button.
On Holmedon's plains. Of prisoners, Hotspur took
On Holy-rood Day the gallant Hotspur there,
On Thursday we ourselves will march. Our meeting
On Wednesday next, Harry, you shall set forward;
On any soul remov'd but on his own.
On plots and errors happen.
On some great sudden hest. O, what portents are these?
On such regards of safety and allowance
On the nice hazard of one doubtful hour?
On the unsteadfast footing of a spear.
One scene of it comes near the circumstance,
One that no persuasion can do good upon.
One word more, good lady.
Opinion, that did help me to the crown,
Opposites against King Henry IV
Or 'If we list to speak,' or 'There be, an if they might,'
Or (not to crack the wind of the poor phrase,
Or I could make a prologue to my brains,
Or I will tear the reckoning from his heart.
Or a dry wheel grate on the axletree,
Or are you like the painting of a sorrow,
Or but a sickly part of one true sense
Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase,
Or by some habit that too much o'erleavens
Or dive into the bottom of the deep,
Or fill up chronicles in time to come,
Or for some frontier?
Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb,
Or hitherwards intended speedily,
Or in th' incestuous pleasure of his bed;
Or is it fantasy that plays upon our eyesight?
Or is it some abuse, and no such thing?
Or like a creature native and indued
Or look'd upon this love with idle sight?
Or my dear Majesty your queen here, think,
Or not at all.
Or paddling in your neck with his damn'd fingers,
Or pardon'd being down? Then I'll look up;
Or quit in answer of the third exchange,
Or rather say, the cause of this defect,
Or such ambiguous giving out, to note
Or then, or then, with such or such; and, as you say,
Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff
Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
Or you deny me right. Go but apart,
Or you shall hear in such a kind from me
Other offenders we will pause upon.
Others would say, 'Where? Which is Bolingbroke?'
Our business valued, some twelve days hence
Our crown, our life, and all that we call ours,
Our duty this way lies. For God's sake, come.
Our general forces at Bridgenorth shall meet.
Our grandam earth, having this distemp'rature,
Our hands are full of business. Let's away.
Our hasty sending. Something have you heard
Our holy purpose to Jerusalem.
Our indiscretion sometime serves us well
Our purpose may hold there.- But stay, what noise,
Our soldiers stand full fairly for the day.
Our sovereign process, which imports at full,
Out of his lunacies.
Out of my grief and my impatience
Out of my weakness and my melancholy,
Out of the bowels of the harmless earth,
Out of your sight and raise this present head;
Over his country's wrongs; and by this face,
Over his kingdom. You know the rendezvous.
Over the nasty sty!
Over whose acres walk'd those blessed feet
Owen Glendower spoke of.
Pale as his shirt, his knees knocking each other,
Pardon, and terms of love to all of you?
Pays homage to us,- thou mayst not coldly set
Perceiv'd Northumberland did lean to him,
Percy is but my factor, good my lord,
Percy, and that devil Glendower? Art thou not horribly afraid?
Percy; I have made him sure.
Perpend.
Pewter. But, Francis, darest thou be so valiant as to play the
Pinch wanton on your cheek; call you his mouse;
Pitiful-hearted butter, that melted at the sweet tale of the sun!
Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the liberty, these are
Play something like the murther of my father
Pleasant and helpful to him!
Please it your honour knock but at the gate,
Plucks off my beard and blows it in my face?
Poins and I will walk lower. If they scape from your encounter,
Poins!
Poins! Now shall we know if Gadshill have set a match. O, if men
Popp'd in between th' election and my hopes;
Pray you be round with him.
Pride, haughtiness, opinion, and disdain;
Prince,. With three or four loggerheads amongst three or
Pro. For us, and for our tragedy,
Proceeded further- cut me off the heads
Proclaim my brother Edmund Mortimer
Proclaim'd at market crosses, read in churches,
Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell,
Prophetically do forethink thy fall.
Pull'd the poor wretch from her melodious lay
Pursued my life.
Put your dread pleasures more into command
Queen. Nor earth to me give food, nor heaven light,
Queen. O, confound the rest!
Queen. Sleep rock thy brain,
Queen. So many journeys may the sun and moon
Queen. The instances that second marriage move
Quenching the flame of bold rebellion
Quit all offences with as clear excuse
Quite from the flight of all thy ancestors.
Ran fearfully among the trembling reeds
Rankly abus'd. But know, thou noble youth,
Rated mine uncle from the Council board;
Rebellion in this laud shall lose his sway,
Rebuke and dread correction wait on us,
Receiv'd his love?
Receive so many, and all willingly.
Receives rebuke from Norway, and, in fine,
Redeeming time when men think least I will.            Exit.
Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain!
Rend me thy sword.
Repast them with my blood.
Repent what's past; avoid what is to come;
Requite him for your father.
Resembles that it was. What it should be,
Revenge should have no bounds. But, good Laertes,
Revenge the jeering and disdain'd contempt
Revisits thus the glimpses of the moon,
Rhenish on my head once. This same skull, sir, was Yorick's
Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.
Richer than that which four successive kings
Rise from the ground like feathered Mercury,
Rome-
Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do ye both?
Rough-hew them how we will-
Roughly awake, I here proclaim was madness.
Running it thus) you'll tender me a fool.
Save how to gall and pinch this Bolingbroke;
Save me and hover o'er me with your wings,
Save mine, which hath desir'd to see thee more;
Say thy prayers, and farewell.
Say, Voltemand, what from our brother Norway?
Say, why is this? wherefore? What should we do?
See how this river comes me cranking in
See riot and dishonour stain the brow
See what a grace was seated on this brow;
See you now-
Seek Percy and thyself about the field;
Seems more than we shall find it. Were it good
Seldom but sumptuous, show'd like a feast
Semblably furnish'd like the King himself.
Send danger from the east unto the west,
Send him to answer thee, or any man,
Send me your prisoners with the speediest means,
Send us your prisoners, or you will hear of it.
Set your entreatments at a higher rate
Shak'd like a coward.
Shakes the old beldame earth and topples down
Shall be my friend again, and I'll be his.
Shall daub her lips with her own children's blood.
Shall follow in your conduct speedily.
Shall in the general censure take corruption
Shall it for shame be spoken in these days,
Shall now in mutual well-beseeming ranks
Shall pay full dearly for this encounter,
Shall secretly into the bosom creep
Shall show more goodly and attract more eyes
Shall we buy treason? and indent with fears
Shall you my son. You have me, have you not
Shards, flints, and pebbles should be thrown on her.
She should in ground unsanctified have lodg'd
She turns to favour and to prettiness.
She'll be a soldier too, she'll to the wars.
She's so conjunctive to my life and soul
Should be as mortal as an old man's life?
Should be the father of some stratagem.
Should be the father to so blest a son-
Should go so general current through the world.
Should have a back or second, that might hold
Should have kept short, restrain'd, and out of haunt
Should patch a wall t' expel the winter's flaw!
Show'd like a stubble land at harvest home.
Shows itself pure. He weeps for what is done.
Sick in the world's regard, wretched and low,
Since frost itself as actively doth burn,
Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice
Since nature cannot choose his origin,-
Since nature makes them partial, should o'erhear
Since not to be avoided it fails on me.
Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red
Singeing his pate against the burning zone,
Sir John Bracy from your father. You must to the court in the
Sir Nicholas Gawsey hath for succour sent,
Sir Walter Blunt, new lighted from his horse,
Sir Walter Blunt. There's honour for you! Here's no vanity! I am
Sir, in this audience,
Sit, cousin Percy; sit, good cousin Hotspur,
Sith I have cause, and will, and strength, and means
Sith nor th' exterior nor the inward man
Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear,
Slept in his face, and rend'red such aspect
So bloodily hast struck.
So common-hackney'd in the eyes of men,
So cowardly; and but for these vile 'guns,
So crimeful and so capital in nature,
So fast they follow. Your sister's drown'd, Laertes.
So full of artless jealousy is guilt
So grace and mercy at your most need help you,
So he that doth redeem her thence might wear
So honour cross it from the north to south,
So horridly to shake our disposition
So levied as before, against the Polack;
So long as out of limit and true rule
So long in his unlucky Irish wars
So lust, though to a radiant angel link'd,
So many of his shadows thou hast met,
So mortal that, but dip a knife in it,
So much as from occasion you may glean,
So much from th' understanding of himself,
So much misconstrued in his wantonness.
So much she doteth on her Mortimer.                    Exit.
So oft it chances in particular men
So soon be drawn; no did he think it meet
So stale and cheap to vulgar company,
So strongly that they dare not meet each other.
So tell him, with th' occurrents, more and less,
So tell your cousin, and bring me word
So to seduce!- won to his shameful lust
So you will not o'errule me to a peace.
So, by my former lecture and advice,
So, proceed you.
So, uncle, there you are. Now to my word:
So, when he had occasion to be seen,
So, when this loose behaviour I throw off
Soil our addition; and indeed it takes
Some certain edicts and some strait decrees
Some heavy business hath my lord in hand,
Some little time; so by your companies
Some of us love you well; and even those some
Some surety for a safe return again,
Sons of Henry IV
Soon after that depriv'd him of his life;
Soon kindled and soon burnt; carded his state;
Sought to entrap me by intelligence;
Sound a flourish. [Enter Trumpets and Kettledrums. Danish
Sound all the lofty instruments of war,
Speak loudly for him.
Speak terms of manage to thy bounding steed,
Speak to her, Hamlet.
Speak, man.
Speaker of the Epilogue
Spoke of in Scotland as this term of fear.
Spoke your deservings like a chronicle;
Sprinkle cool patience! Whereon do you look?
Sprung from neglected love.- How now, Ophelia?
Spurns enviously at straws; speaks things in doubt,
Stain'd with the variation of each soil
Start up and stand an end. O gentle son,
Steeples and mossgrown towers. At your birth
Steps me a little higher than his vow
Stew'd in corruption, honeying and making love
Stick fiery off indeed.
Still am I call'd. Unhand me, gentlemen.
Still ending at the arrival of an hour.
Stood challenger on mount of all the age
Stoop'd his anointed head as low as death.
Stuffing the ears of men with false reports.
Subscrib'd it, gave't th' impression, plac'd it safely,
Such as is bent on unlike majesty
Such as it is; and for my own poor part,
Such as we see when men restrain their breath
Such attribution should the Douglas have
Such barren pleasures, rude society,
Such beastly shameless transformation,
Such bold hostility, teaching his duteous land
Such dear concernings hide? Who would do so?
Such poor, such bare, such lewd, such mean attempts,
Such water colours to impaint his cause,
Sung by a fair queen in a summer's bow'r,
Sure he that made us with such large discourse,
Suspicion all our lives shall be stuck full of eyes;
Swear by my sword.
Swear by my sword.
Swear me, Kate, like a lady as thou art,
Swear.
Swore him assistance, and performed it too.
Sworn to tis in your younger enterprise.
T' assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps
T' have seen what I have seen, see what I see!
T' o'ertop old Pelion or the skyish head
Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive
Take these again; for to the noble mind
Take up the bodies. Such a sight as this
Take you, as 'twere, some distant knowledge of him;
Tears in his eyes, distraction in's aspect,
Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with,
Tell him that by his license Fortinbras
Tell me, sweet lord, what is't that takes from thee
Ten thousand bold Scots, two-and-twenty knights,
Termagant. It out-herods Herod. Pray you avoid it.
Th' associates tend, and everything is bent
Th' effect of what I wrote?
Th' expectancy and rose of the fair state,
Th' important acting of your dread command?
Th' observ'd of all observers- quite, quite down!
Th' oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
Than Harry Percy's wife; constant you are,
Than I by letters shall direct your course.
Than I, that have not well the gift of tongue,
Than Young Laertes, in a riotous head,
Than a command to parley. For Lord Hamlet,
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy.
Than feed on cates and have him talk to me
Than fly to others that we know not of?
Than if the Earl were here; for men must think,
Than is my deed to my most painted word.
Than may be given you. In few, Ophelia,
Than one of these same metre ballet-mongers.
Than out of anger can be uttered.
Than that which hath no foil to set it off.
Than they have learnt of me. From Rumour's tongues
Than those proud titles thou hast won of me.
Than thou, the shadow of succession;
Than to entreaty.
Than your particular demands will touch it.
That Douglas and the English rebels met
That I am guiltless of your father's death,
That I did pluck allegiance from men's hearts,
That I essentially am not in madness,
That I have Positively said ''Tis so,'
That I have longed long to re-deliver.
That I have shot my arrow o'er the house
That I have utt'red. Bring me to the test,
That I have? He would drown the stage with tears
That I might be the organ.
That I must be their scourge and minister.
That I must call't in question.
That I shall live and tell him to his teeth,
That I shall make this Northern youth exchange
That I will by to-morrow dinner time
That I will speak to thee. I'll call thee Hamlet,
That I, in forgery of shapes and tricks,
That I, the son of a dear father murther'd,
That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead.
That all in England did repute him dead-
That aptly is put on. Refrain to-night,
That are but mutes or audience to this act,
That are misled upon your cousin's part;
That are your prisoners-
That beads of sweat have stood upon thy brow
That beetles o'er his base into the sea,
That blurs the grace and blush of modesty;
That both the world, I give to negligence,
That brought you home and boldly did outdare
That cannot be; since I am still possess'd
That capability and godlike reason
That carry but half sense. Her speech is nothing,
That chides the banks of England, Scotland, Wales,
That counterfeit'st the person of a king?
That does afflict our natures. I am sorry.
That else leans on th' affair. Pray you make haste.
That even our love thirst not come near your sight
That ever I was born to set it right!
That ever said I heark'ned for your death.
That ever-valiant and approved Scot,
That flesh is heir to. 'Tis a consummation
That for a fantasy and trick of fame
That from a shelf the precious diadem stole
That great baby you see there is not yet out of his swaddling
That guilty creatures, sitting at a play,
That has no relish of salvation in't-
That hath in it no profit but the name.
That have a father klll'd, a mother stain'd,
That he could nothing do but wish and beg
That he cried out 'twould be a sight indeed
That he is mad, 'tis true: 'tis true 'tis pity;
That he is open to incontinency.
That he shall render every glory up,
That he shall shrink under my courtesy.
That he should weep for her? What would he do,
That he which hath your noble father slain
That he, as 'twere by accident, may here
That hurts by easing. But to the quick o' th' ulcer!
That inward breaks, and shows no cause without
That is not passion's slave, and I will wear him
That it is proof and bulwark against sense.
That it might please you to give quiet pass
That it went hand in hand even with the vow
That liberal shepherds give a grosser name,
That lie too heavy on the commonwealth;
That live and feed upon your Majesty.
That looks so many fadoms to the sea
That makes calamity of so long life.
That men of your nobility and power
That men would tell their children, 'This is he!'
That might your nature, honour, and exception
That monster, custom, who all sense doth eat
That no revenue hast but thy good spirits
That not a horse is half the half of himself.
That not your trespass but my madness speaks.
That one may smile, and smile, and be a villain;
That patient merit of th' unworthy takes,
That roars so loud and thunders in the index?
That rots itself in ease on Lethe wharf,
That she should lock herself from his resort,
That show of such an exercise may colour
That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream.
That shows the ignorant a kind of fear
That so his sickness, age, and impotence
That some night-tripping fairy had exchang'd
That spirit upon whose weal depends and rests
That suck'd the honey of his music vows,
That swift as quicksilverr it courses through
That swoopstake you will draw both friend and foe,
That the Lord Bardolph doth attend him here.
That the blunt monster with uncounted heads,
That the pursuers took him. At my tent
That they are not a pipe for Fortune's finger
That they do know my son, come you more nearer
That they may seem the taints of liberty,
That this same child of honour and renown,
That thou so many princes at a shot
That thou, dead corse, again in complete steel,
That thus hath cozen'd you at hoodman-blind?
That thus he suffers for.
That thy rebellion looks so giantlike?
That to Laertes I forgot myself,
That to the use of actions fair and good
That treason can but peep to what it would,
That unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth
That we are made of stuff so flat and dull
That we at our own charge shall ransom straight
That we can let our beard be shook with danger,
That we find out the cause of this effect-
That wear those colours on them. What art thou
That were his lackeys. I cried 'hum,' and 'Well, go to!'
That wisdom, loyalty, and mere dislike
That wish'd him on the barren mountains starve.
That with our small conjunction we should on,
That would not let me sleep. Methought I lay
That you a world of curses undergo,
That you and I should meet upon such terms
That you are fool'd, discarded, and shook off
That you did nothing purpose 'gainst the state,
That you do bend your eye on vacancy,
That you foresee not what impediments
That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay,
That you know aught of me- this is not to do,
That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court
That you, at such times seeing me, never shall,
That your good beauties be the happy cause
That youth and observation copied there,
That's an ill phrase, a vile phrase; 'beautified' is a vile
That's not my meaning. But breathe his faults so quaintly
That, as the star moves not but in his sphere,
That, being dally swallowed by men's eyes,
That, being of so young clays brought up with him,
That, for some vicious mole of nature in them,
That, from her working, all his visage wann'd,
That, in his secret doom, out of my blood
That, laps'd in time and passion, lets go by
That, on the supervise, no leisure bated,
That, on the view and knowing of these contents,
That, open'd, lies within our remedy.
That, when he please again to lie himself,
The Archbishop's Grace of York, Douglas, Mortimer
The Archbishop.
The Devil himself.
The Douglas and the Hotspur both together
The Douglas is, and I beseech Your Grace
The Earl of Douglas is discomfited;
The Earl of Westmoreland, seven thousand strong,
The Frenchman gave you; bring you in fine together
The King himself in person is set forth,
The King is a thing-
The King shall drink to Hamlet's better breath,
The King should keep his word in loving us.
The King will always think him in our debt,
The King with mighty and quick-raised power
The Noble Percy slain and all his men
The Prince draws it out and finds it to he a bottle of sack.
The Prince of Wales doth join with all the world
The Prince of Wales from such a field as this,
The Prince of Wales, Lord John of Lancaster,
The Queen carouses to thy fortune, Hamlet.
The Queen, the courtiers. Who is this they follow?
The Scripture says Adam digg'd. Could he dig without arms? I'll
The acts commenced on this ball of earth.
The bark is ready and the wind at help,
The better cherish'd, still the nearer death.
The better part of ours are full of rest.
The better to beguile. This is for all:
The boy shall lead our horses down the hill;
The cannons to the heavens, the heaven to earth,
The cat will mew, and dog will have his day.
The changeling never known. Now, the next day
The cords, the ladder, or the hangman rather?
The corse they follow did with desp'rate hand
The counterfeit presentment of two brothers.
The courtier's, scholar's, soldier's, eye, tongue, sword,
The crest of youth against your dignity.
The crowner hath sate on her, and finds it Christian burial.
The dangers of the time. You swore to us,
The death I gave him. So again, good night.
The drink, the drink! I am poison'd.                 [Dies.]
The ears are senseless that should give us bearing
The edge of war, like an ill-sheathed knife,
The eleventh of this month at Shrewsbury.
The eye of reason may pry in upon us.
The fair Ophelia!- Nymph, in thy orisons
The first row of the pious chanson will show you more; for look
The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind,
The form of plausive manners, that these men
The fortune of the day quite turn'd from him,
The frame and huge foundation of the earth
The front of heaven was full of fiery shapes
The front of heaven was full of fiery shapes,
The glass of fashion and the mould of form,
The glowworm shows the matin to be near
The goats ran from the mountains, and the herds
The harlot's cheek, beautied with plast'ring art,
The head and source of all your son's distemper.
The hearers to collection; they aim at it,
The heartache, and the thousand natural shocks
The hearts of all that he did angle for;
The heyday in the blood is tame, it's humble,
The hope and expectation of thy time
The hour before the heavenly-harness'd team
The imminent death of twenty thousand men
The insolence of office, and the spurns
The insulting hand of Douglas over you,
The kettledrum and trumpet thus bray out
The land is burning; Percy stands on high;
The least of which haunting a nobleman
The leperous distilment; whose effect
The liberal and kind offer of the King.
The light and careless livery that it wears
The lives of many. The cesse of majesty
The lives of those that he did lead to fight
The long-grown wounds of my intemperance.
The mailed Mars Shall on his altar sit
The money is paid back again.
The moody frontier of a servant brow.
The more and less came in with cap and knee;
The natural gates and alleys of the body,
The nature of your griefs; and whereupon
The need we have to use you did provoke
The nimble-footed madcap Prince of Wales,
The noble Westmoreland and warlike Blunt,
The ocean, overpeering of his list,
The origin and commencement of his grief
The pangs of despis'd love, the law's delay,
The pith and marrow of our attribute.
The portraiture of his. I'll court his favours.
The potent poison quite o'ercrows my spirit.
The powers of us may serve so great a day.
The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England;
The quality and hair of our attempt
The rather, if you could devise it so
The ratifiers and props of every word,
The remnant northward lying off from Trent.
The scourge of greatness to be us'd on it-
The seat of Gaunt, dukedom of Lancaster.
The seeming sufferances that you had borne,
The serpent that did sting thy father's life
The skipping King, he ambled up and down
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune
The soldiers' music and the rites of war
The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom.
The special head of all the land together-
The speech, of vantage. Fare you well, my liege.
The still-discordant wav'ring multitude,
The story is extant, and written in very choice Italian. You
The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch
The terms of our estate may not endure
The thieves are scattered, and possess'd with fear
The thin and wholesome blood. So did it mine;
The time is out of joint. O cursed spite
The times are wild; contention, like a horse
The tongues of soothers! but a braver place
The treacherous instrument is in thy hand,
The triumph of his pledge.
The trumpet sounds retreat; the day is ours.
The trumpet to the cannoneer without,
The undiscover'd country, from whose bourn
The unseen good old man.
The unyok'd humour of your idleness.
The vent of hearing when loud Rumour speaks?
The very bottom and the soul of hope,
The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy.
The very faculties of eyes and ears.
The very lifeblood of our enterprise.
The very list, the very utmost bound
The very place puts toys of desperation,
The very soul, and sweet religion makes
The which if he be pleas'd I shall perform,
The which in every language I pronounce,
The will of my most seeming-virtuous queen.
The woman will be out. Adieu, my lord.
The youth you breathe of guilty, be assur'd
Their courage with hard labour tame and dull,
Their grand commission; where I found, Horatio
Their virtues else- be they as pure as grace,
Then Hamlet does it not, Hamlet denies it.
Then goes he to the length of all his arm,
Then let not him be slandered with revolt.
Then trip him, that his heels may kick at heaven,
Then would I have his Harry, and he mine.
Then, venom, to thy work.                    Hurts the King.
Thence to a lightness, and, by this declension,
Thence to a watch, thence into a weakness,
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
There did he pause; but let me tell the world,
There falling out at tennis'; or perchance,
There is Douglas and Lord Mortimer.
There is a play to-night before the King.
There is no shuffling; there the action lies
There lives not three good men unhang'd in England; and one of
There lives within the very flame of love
There on the pendant boughs her coronet weeds
There shalt thou know thy charge. and there receive
There was 'a gaming; there o'ertook in's rouse;
There with fantastic garlands did she come
There without ransom to lie forfeited;
There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
There's such divinity doth hedge a king
There's tricks i' th' world, and hems, and beats her heart;
There, my lord.
Therefore I say-
Therefore let's follow.
Therefore make haste. I must go write again
Therefore we meet not now. Then let me hear
Therefore, good cousin, let not Harry know,
Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit,
These signs have mark'd me extraordinary,
These words like daggers enter in mine ears.
They are not near my conscience; their defeat
They bear the mandate; they must sweep my way
They bring smooth comforts false, worse than true wrongs.
They clip us drunkards and with swinish phrase
They come like sacrifices in their trim,
They cry 'Choose we! Laertes shall be king!'
They fight. Douglas kills Blunt. Then enter Hotspur.
They find us touch'd, we will our kingdom give,
They had begun the play. I sat me down;
They have proclaim'd their malefactions;
They shall go far with little.
They surfeited with honey and began
They were given me by Claudio; he receiv'd them
They wound my thoughts worse than thy sword my flesh.
Thick and and unwholesome in their thoughts and whispers
Thin settled age his sables and his weeds,
This above all- to thine own self be true,
This absence of your father's draws a curtain
This bald unjointed chat of his, my lord,
This bodiless creation ecstasy
This churlish knot of all-abhorred war,
This evening must I leave you, gentle Kate.
This fawning greyhound then did proffer me!
This gallant Hotspur, this all-praised knight,
This grave shall have a living monument.
This have I rumour'd through the peasant towns
This head of safety, and withal to pry
This heavy-headed revel east and west
This honourable bounty shall belong.
This in the name of God I promise here;
This infant warrior, in his enterprises
This is but scratch'd withal. I'll touch my point
This is not well, my lord; this is not well.
This is one Lucianus, nephew to the King.
This is th' imposthume of much wealth and peace,
This is the very ecstasy of love,
This mad young man. But so much was our love
This man shall set me packing.
This must be known; which, being kept close, might move
This must not be.' And then I prescripts gave her,
This night to play before him.
This physic but prolongs thy sickly days.              Exit.
This praise doth nourish agues. Let them come.
This presence knows,
This present enterprise set off his head,
This seeming brow of justice, did he win
This something-settled matter in his heart,
This sudden sending him away must seem
This sword hath ended him. So shall it thee,
This to my cousin Scroop; and all the rest
This to your Majesty; this to the Queen.
This villanous saltpetre should be digg'd
This warlike volley.
This was your husband. Look you now what follows.
This, in obedience, hath my daughter shown me;
Those mouthed wounds, which valiantly he took
Those prisoners in your Highness' name demanded
Those prisoners you shall keep.
Thou art violently carried away from grace. There is a devil
Thou canst not then be false to any man.
Thou com'st in such a questionable shape
Thou crossest me? What honour dost thou seek
Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger.
Thou hast redeem'd thy lost opinion,
Thou know'st already.
Thou knowest my old ward. Here I lay, and thus I bore my point.
Thou liv'st; report me and my cause aright
Thou shalt have charge and sovereign trust herein.
Thou that art like enough, through vassal fear,
Thou turn'st mine eyes into my very soul,
Thou wilt not utter what thou dost not know,
Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!
Though inclination be as sharp as will.
Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven,
Though many dearer, in this bloody fray.
Though nothing sure, yet much unhappily.
Though sometimes it show greatness, courage, blood-
Three knights upon our party slain to-day,
Three times they breath'd, and three times did they drink,
Thrice hath this Hotspur, Mars in swathling clothes,
Through Gloucestershire; by which account,
Through all the kingdoms that acknowledge Christ.
Through your dominions for this enterprise,
Thrown out his angle for my Proper life,
Thus bad begins, and worse remains behind.
Thus conscience does make cowards of us all,
Thus did I keep my person fresh and new,
Thus it remains, and the remainder thus.
Thus set it down: he shall with speed to England
Thus was I, sleeping, by a brother's hand
Thy ignominy sleep with thee in the grave,
Thy knotted and combined locks to part,
Thy likeness; for instead of thee, King Harry,
Thy maiden sword.
Thy name in arms were now as great as mine!
Thy place in Council thou hast rudely lost,
Thy spirit within thee hath been so at war,
Thy stomach, pleasure, and thy golden sleep?
Till I have caught her once more in mine arms.
Till I have learnt thy language: for thy tongue
Till by some elder masters of known honour
Till fields and blows and groans applaud our sport!    Exeunt.
Till he hath found a time to pay us home.
Till of this flat a mountain you have made
Till our scale turn the beam. O rose of May!
Till that her garments, heavy with their drink,
Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature
Till the last trumpet. For charitable prayers,
Till then in blood by noble Percy lie.                 Exit.
Till then in patience our proceeding be.
Time qualifies the spark and fire of it.
To England send him; or confine him where
To Owen Glendower; and, dear coz, to you
To all that fortune, death, and danger dare,
To answer all the debt he owes to you
To any pastime?
To any well-deserving friend;
To be a preparation 'gainst the Polack,
To be commanded.
To be commenc'd in stronds afar remote.
To be depos'd, and shortly murdered.
To be forestalled ere we come to fall,
To be so pest'red with a popingay,
To bear our fortunes in our own strong arms,
To beaten Douglas, and the Earl of Athol,
To bloody battles and to bruising arms.
To both your honours.
To bring a slovenly unhandsome corse
To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions
To cast thee up again. What may this mean
To chase these pagans in those holy fields
To crush our old limbs in ungentle steel.
To do him wrong, or any way impeach
To do't. Examples gross as earth exhort me.
To dog his heels and curtsy at his frowns,
To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather
To ears of flesh and blood. List, list, O, list!
To end the one of us and would to God
To engross up glorious deeds on my behalf;
To entertain the lag-end of my life
To exploit now ripe in my device,
To face the garment of rebellion
To feed and clothe thee? Why should the poor be flatter'd?
To fight against me under Percy's pay,
To fight with Glendower and the Earl of March.
To fill the mouth of deep defiance up
To flaming youth let virtue be as wax
To fust in us unus'd. Now, whether it be
To gentle exercise and proof of arms.
To give in evidence. What then? What rests?
To give it due content.
To give th' assay of arms against your Majesty.
To give the world assurance of a man.
To give them seals never, my soul, consent!             Exit.
To grace this latter age with noble deeds.
To gripe the general sway into your hand;
To grunt and sweat under a weary life,
To have prov'd most royally; and for his passage
To hear and see the matter.
To hear him so inclin'd.
To hear of it. They are here about the court,
To hear the process. I'll warrant she'll tax him home;
To hear this rich reprisal is so nigh,
To heaven.
To hell, allegiance! vows, to the blackest devil
To hide the slain? O, from this time forth,
To him from whom you brought them.                   Exeunt.
To his own use he keeps, and sends me word
To join with Mortimer, ha?
To keep his anger still in motion.
To keep it from divulging, let it feed
To keep itself from noyance; but much more
To keep my name ungor'd. But till that time
To keep those many many bodies safe
To lack discretion. Come, go we to the King.
To laugh at gibing boys and stand the push
To lay our service freely at your feet,
To lay so dangerous and dear a trust
To let his madness range. Therefore prepare you;
To let this canker of our nature come
To line his enterprise; but if you go-
To loathe the taste of sweetness, whereof a little
To make oppression bitter, or ere this
To make that worse, suff'red his kinsman March
To make them ranker. Forgive me this my virtue;
To make us strangers to his looks of love.
To meet Northumberland and the prelate Scroop,
To meet you on the way and kiss your hand
To meet your father and the Scottish bower,
To mine own room again; making so bold
To muddy death.
To my brother John; this to my Lord of Westmoreland.
To my revenge. But in my terms of honour
To noise abroad that Harry Monmouth fell
To other friends; and so farewell, Sir Michael.
To outface me with leaping in her grave?
To pay five ducats, five, I would not farm it;
To play with mammets and to tilt with lips.
To pluck bright honour from the pale-fac'd moon,
To prick and sting her. Fare thee well at once.
To punish me with this, and this with me,
To punish my mistreadings. Tell me else,
To punish this offence in other faults.
To push against a kingdom, with his help
To put an antic disposition on),
To put down Richard, that sweet lovely rose,
To put him quite besides his patience.
To quit him with this arm? And is't not to be damn'd
To ransom home revolted Mortimer.
To rob me of so rich a bottom here.
To rouse a lion than to start a hare!
To save our heads by raising of a head;
To see him shine so brisk, and smell so sweet,
To see how fortune is dispos'd to us;
To see what friends are living, who are dead.
To serve in such a difference. What devil was't
To set the exact wealth of all our states
To share with me in glory any more.
To show his grief. Let her be round with him;
To show how much thou art degenerate.
To show the line and the predicament
To show us so much gentry and good will
To show yourself your father's son in deed
To sing a requiem and such rest to her
To sleep- perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub!
To smother up his beauty from the world,
To sound what stop she please. Give me that man
To speak of horrors- he comes before me.
To speak so true at first? My office is
To spend that shortness basely were too long
To sport would be as tedious as to work;
To such a person, and in such a place,
To sue his livery and beg his peace,
To take him in the purging of his soul,
To tell him his commandment is fulfill'd
To tell my story.         [March afar off, and shot within.]
To tell the secrets of my prison house,
To tell us this.
To tell you once again that at my birth
To the ambassadors of England gives
To the latter end of a fray and the beginning of a feast
To the next abstinence; the next more easy;
To the unsatisfied.
To thick-ey'd musing and curs'd melancholy?
To this we swore our aid. But in short space
To those of mine!
To try conclusions, in the basket creep
To turn and wind a fiery Pegasus
To velvet guards and Sunday citizens. Come, sing.
To wage an instant trial with the King.
To wash it white as snow? Whereto serves mercy
To what I shall unfold.
To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
To whom they are directed. If you knew
To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things
To you alone.
To you in satisfaction; but if not,
To you yourself, to us, to every one.
To youth and liberty.
To-day will I set forth, to-morrow you.
To-morrow, cousin Percy, you and I
To-morrow, good Sir Michael, is a day
Too indirect for long continuance.
Too slightly timber'd for so loud a wind,
Took it in snuff; and still he smil'd and talk'd;
Tou have good leave to leave us. When we need
Towards York shall bend you with your dearest speed
Transports his poisoned shot- may miss our name
Treachery! Seek it out.
Trembling even at the name of Mortimer.
Trimm'd up your praises with a princely tongue;
Troyans that thou dream'st not of, the which for sport sake are
Truly deliver.
Try fortune with him in a single fight.
Try what repentance can. What can it not?
Turns head against the lion's armed jaws,
Tweaks me by th' nose? gives me the lie i' th' throat
Two stars keep not their motion in one sphere,
Tying thine ear to no tongue but thine own!
Unapt to stir at these indignities,
Unbated and envenom'd. The foul practice
Uncertain of the issue any way.
Uncle, what news?
Under the hoofs of vaunting enemies,
Under the moon, can save the thing from death
Under the smile of safety, wounds the world;
Under the which he shall not choose but fall;
Under the wrath of noble Hotspur's sword,
Under whose government come they along?
Ungart'red, and down-gyved to his ankle;
Unhous'led, disappointed, unanel'd,
Unless a brother should a brother dare
Unless thou yield thee as my prisoner.
Unmix'd with baser matter. Yes, by heaven!
Unpeg the basket on the house's top,
Unsifted in such perilous circumstance.
Until I meet the King.
Until my eyelids will no longer wag.
Unto that element; but long it could not be
Unto this king of smiles, this Bolingbroke-
Up to his pleasure, ransomless and free.
Up to the ears in blood. I am on fire
Up, sword, and know thou a more horrid hent.
Upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor
Upon agreement, of swift Severn's flood;
Upon his Irish expedition;
Upon his follies. Never did I hear
Upon my head?
Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole,
Upon my tongues continual slanders ride,
Upon our first, he sent out to suppress
Upon the beat and flame of thy distemper
Upon the beauty of all parts besides,
Upon the foot of fear, fled with the rest;
Upon the head of this forgetful man,
Upon the maidenhead of our affairs.
Upon the naked shore at Ravenspurgh;
Upon the parting of your wives and you.
Upon whose dead corpse there was such misuse,
Upon whose property and most dear life
Useth the sparrow- did oppress our nest;
Videlicet, a brothel, or so forth.
Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg-
Wales that gave Amamon the bastinado, and made Lucifer cuckold,
Want mercy if I do not join with him!
Wanton as youthful goats, wild as young bulls.
Warwickshire? My good Lord of Westmoreland, I cry you mercy. I
Was by the rude hands of that Welshman taken,
Was falsely borne in hand, sends out arrests
Was not like madness. There's something in his soul
Was our sea-fight; and what to this was sequent
Was parmacity for an inward bruise;
Was't Hamlet wrong'd Laertes? Never Hamlet.
We are impressed and engag'd to fight-
We cannot get from him.
We go to gain a little patch of ground
We heard it all.- My lord, do as you please;
We license your departure with your son.-
We love our people well; even those we love
We may boldly spend upon the hope of what
We may of their encounter frankly judge
We must have bloody noses and crack'd crowns,
We must with all our majesty and skill
We o'erraught on the way. Of these we told him,
We offer fair; take it advisedly.
We shall express our duty in his eye;
We shall o'erturn it topsy-turvy down.
We should do when we would; for this 'would' changes,
We should profane the service of the dead
We were enforc'd for safety sake to fly
We were the first and dearest of your friends.
We will bestow ourselves.- [To Ophelia] Read on this book,
We will not now be troubled with reply.
We will stay your leisure.
We would not understand what was most fit,
We'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings-
We'll put on those shall praise your excellence
We'll put the matter to the present push.-
We'll walk afoot awhile and ease our legs.
We, as the spring of all, shall pay for all.
Wednesday. Doth he feel it? No. Doth be bear it? No. 'Tis
Weigh what convenience both of time and means
Welcome, my good friends.
Well, I doubt not but to die a fair death for all this, if I
Well, I will back him straight. O esperance!
Well, I'll repent, and that suddenly, while I am in some liking.
Well, do not then; for since you love me not,
Were nothing but to waste night, day, and time.
Were strangely clamorous to the frighted fields.
Were thicker than itself with brother's blood,
Were't not for laughing, I should pity him.
Were, as he says, not with such strength denied
What I have said to you.
What company, at what expense; and finding
What does this mean, my lord?
What feast is toward in thine eternal cell
What forgeries you please; marry, none so rank
What hast thou found?
What he will do. But if he will not yield,
What is between you? Give me up the truth.
What is the issue of the business there.
What is the matter?
What is the reason that you use me thus?
What is't but to be nothing else but mad?
What letters hast thou there?- I can but thank you.
What majesty should be, what duty is,
What might you think? No, I went round to work
What need I be so forward with him that calls not on me? Well,
What never-dying honour hath he got
What say you to it? Will you again unknit
What say'st thou, Kate? What wouldst thou have with me?
What should this mean? Are all the rest come back?
What then he said, so he unsay it now.
What thou hast said to me.
What warlike noise is this?
What with our help, what with the absent King,
What with the injuries of a wanton time,
What with the sickness of Northumberland,
What yesternight our Council did decree
What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
What's near it with it. It is a massy wheel,
What's o'clock, Francis?
What's the matter?
What, have you given him any hard words of late?
What, is it a time to jest and dally now?
What, old acquaintance? Could not all this flesh
What, ostler! A plague on thee! hast thou never an eye in thy
What, shall we be merry? Shall we have a play extempore?
What, will you make a younker of me? Shall I not take mine ease
Whate'er Lord Harry Percy then had said
When I from France set foot at Ravenspurgh;
When I had seen this hot love on the wing
When I to sulph'rous and tormenting flames
When I was dry with rage and extreme toll,
When I will wear a garment all of blood,
When a jest is so forward- and afoot too- I hate it.
When churchyards yawn, and hell itself breathes out
When down her weedy trophies and herself
When he himself might his quietus make
When he is drunk asleep; or in his rage;
When he is fit and seasoned for his passage?
When he was personal in the Irish war.
When honour's at the stake. How stand I then,
When in one line two crafts directly meet.
When in your motion you are hot and dry-
When it prov'd otherwise.?
When it shines seldom in admiring eyes;
When on the gentle Severn's sedgy bank,
When our deep plots do pall; and that should learn us
When sorrows come, they come not single spies.
When that her golden couplets are disclos'd,
When that this body did contain a spirit,
When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul
When the compulsive ardour gives the charge,
When the intent of bearing them is just.
When they have lost and forfeited themselves?
When thou liest howling.
When time is ripe, which will be suddenly,
When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
When we would bring him on to some confession
When yet you were in place and in account
When you and he came back from Ravenspurgh-
When you are better temper'd to attend.
When you come 'cross his humour. Faith, he does.
Where Hotspur's father, old Northumberland,
Where be his quiddits now, his quillets, his cases, his tenures,
Where every god did seem to set his seal
Where fadom line could never touch the ground,
Where is he living, clipp'd in with the sea
Where is the Earl?
Where is your son?
Where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare,
Where now remains a sweet reversion.
Where should We have our thanks?
Where stain'd nobility lies trodden on,
Where they did spend a sad and bloody hour;
Where thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear?
Where truth is hid, though it were hid indeed
Where you and Douglas, and our pow'rs at once,
Where you did give a fair and natural light,
Where you may see the inmost part of you.
Where, being but young, I framed to the harp
Whereby we stand opposed by such means
Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the King.         Exit.
Wherein necessity, of matter beggar'd,
Wherein the fortune of ten thousand men
Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.
Wherein they say you shine, Your sun of parts
Wherein we saw thee quietly inurn'd,
Wherein you range under this subtile king!
Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus
Whereon old Norway, overcome with joy,
Whereon the numbers cannot try the cause,
Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
Whether aught to us unknown afflicts him thus
Which Harry Percy here at Holmedon took,
Which I have told thee, of my father's death.
Which I shall give away immediately.
Which I shall send you written, be assur'd
Which are not sterling. Tender yourself more dearly,
Which art my nearest and dearest enemy'
Which being sealed interchangeably
Which by thy younger brother is supplied,
Which calls me pupil or hath read to me?
Which cannot choose but bring him quickly on.
Which done, she took the fruits of my advice,
Which fourteen hundred years ago were nail'd
Which gape and rub the elbow at the news
Which hath been smooth as oil, soft as young down,
Which have solicited- the rest is silence.             Dies.
Which he confesseth to be manifold,
Which he in this adventure hath surpris'd
Which is not tomb enough and continent
Which is the mightier. In his lawless fit
Which let thy wisdom fear. Hold off thy hand!
Which makes him prune himself and bristle up
Which many a good tall fellow had destroy'd
Which may to you, perhaps, seein much unsinew'd,
Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason
Which now doth that I would not have it do-
Which now goes too free-footed.
Which now we hold at much uncertainty.
Which now, to claim my vantage doth invite me.
Which of us fears.
Which oft the ear of greatness needs must bear
Which the proud soul ne'er pays but to the proud.
Which thou pourest down from these swelling heavens
Which time she chaunted snatches of old tunes,
Which we do tender as we dearly grieve
Which would have been as speedy in your end
Which, as her winks and nods and gestures yield them,
Which, like the meteors of a troubled heaven,
Which, wash'd away, shall scour my shame with it.
Whiles rank corruption, mining all within,
Whiles the big year, swoln with some other grief,
Whilst I, by looking on the praise of him,
Whips out his rapier, cries 'A rat, a rat!'
Whither I go, nor reason whereabout.
Whither I go, thither shall you go too;
Whither I must, I must; and to conclude,
Who calls me villain? breaks my pate across?
Who does it, then? His madness. If't be so,
Who doth permit the base contagious clouds
Who in her duty and obedience, mark,
Who is sweet Fortune's minion and her pride;
Who is to bear me like a thunderbolt
Who like not in their judgment, but their eyes;
Who never promiseth but he means to pay.
Who then, affrighted with their bloody looks,
Who therewith angry, when it next came there,
Who was in life a foolish peating knave.
Who with them was a rated sinew too
Who, as we hear, are busily in arms.
Who, dipping all his faults in their affection,
Who, in a bloody field by Shrewsbury,
Who, ne'er so tame, so cherish'd and lock'd up,
Who, on my soul, hath wilfully betray'd
Whom I will trust as I will adders fang'd,
Whose arms were moulded in their mother's womb
Whose blood and judgment are so well commingled
Whose daughter, as we hear, the Earl of March
Whose deaths are yet unreveng'd. I prithee
Whose hot incursions and great name in arms
Whose motive in this case should stir me most
Whose power was in the first proportion,
Whose soldier now, under whose blessed cross
Whose spirit, with divine ambition puff'd,
Whose tongue shall ask me for one penny cost
Whose violent property fordoes itself
Whose whisper o'er the world's diameter,
Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense
Whose worst was that the noble Mortimer,
Whose worth, if praises may go back again,
Why day is day, night is night, and time is time.
Why didst thou tell me that thou wert a king?
Why does the drum come hither?
Why dost thou bend thine eyes upon the earth,
Why hast thou lost the fresh blood in thy cheeks
Why the man dies.- I humbly thank you, sir.
Why thou art thus incens'd. Let him go, Gertrude.
Why thy canoniz'd bones, hearsed in death,
Why to a public count I might not go
Why yet I live to say 'This thing's to do,'
Why you proceeded not against these feats
Why, Harry, do I tell thee of my foes,
Why, this is hire and salary, not revenge!
Why, what a candy deal of courtesy
Why, what an ass am I! This is most brave,
Will be some danger; which for to prevent,
Will bring him to his wonted way again,
Will easily be granted. [To Northumberland] You, my lord,
Will have a wild trick of his ancestors.
Will hold at Windsor. So inform the lords;
Will not debate the question of this straw.
Will not peruse the foils; so that with ease,
Will nothing stick Our person to arraign
Will return'd shall know you are come home.
Will sate itself in a celestial bed
Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing unseen,
Will this content you, Kate,?
Will want true colour- tears perchance for blood.
Will you be rul'd by me?
Will you do this? Keep close within your chamber.
Will you sit down?
Winner and loser?
With a bare bodkin? Who would these fardels bear,
With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May;
With all my imperfections on my head.
With all my love I do commend me to you;
With all the strength and armour of the mind
With almost all the holy vows of heaven.
With an entreaty, herein further shown,
With arms encumb'red thus, or this head-shake,
With cheese and garlic in a windmill far
With fiery quickness. Therefore prepare thyself.
With forms to his conceit? And all for nothing!
With haughty arms this hateful name in us.
With him my son, Lord John of Lancaster;
With juice of cursed hebona in a vial,
With like advantage on the other side,
With lustier maintenance than I did look for
With many holiday and lady terms
With most miraculous organ, I'll have these Players
With pestilent speeches of his father's death,
With quiet hours; for I do protest
With ravishing division, to her lute.
With shallow jesters and rash bavin wits,
With some fine colour that may please the eye
With sore distraction. What I have done
With strong and mighty preparation.
With tears of innocency and terms of zeal,
With telling me of the moldwarp and the ant,
With the best blood that I can meet withal
With the brave beast. So far he topp'd my thought
With this contagion, that, if I gall him slightly,
With this regard their currents turn awry
With this slave's offal. Bloody bawdy villain!
With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls?
With tristful visage, as against the doom,
With turbulent and dangerous lunacy?
With variable objects, shall expel
With vile participation. Not an eye
With windlasses and with assays of bias,
With winged haste to the Lord Marshal;
With witchcraft of his wit, with traitorous gifts-
With wondrous potency. Once more, good night;
With, hoo! such bugs and goblins in my life-
Within her womb, which, for enlargement striving,
Within the book and volume of my brain,
Within the centre.
Without corrival all her dignities;
Without debatement further, more or less,
Without more motive, into every brain
Without much shame retold or spoken of.
Without our ears. Thou art not what thou seem'st.
Without the taste of danger and reproof.
Without the which we are Pictures or mere beasts;
Witness this army of such mass and charge,
Woo't drink up esill? eat a crocodile?
Woo't weep? woo't fight? woo't fast? woo't tear thyself?
Words without thoughts never to heaven go.             Exit.
Worse than a smoky house. I had rather live
Worse than the mutinies in the bilboes. Rashly-
Would from a paddock, from a bat, a gib
Would gambol from. Mother, for love of grace,
Would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood,
Would have reverted to my bow again,
Would make them capable.- Do not look upon me,
Would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers- if the rest of my
Would quake to look on. Soft! now to my mother!
Would step from this to this? Sense sure you have,
Would they were multitudes, and on my head
Would, like the spring that turneth wood to stone,
Wouldst thou not stir in this. Now, Hamlet, hear.
Yea, curb and woo for leave to do him good.
Yea, even the slightest worship of his time,
Yea, from the table of my memory
Yea, on his part I'll empty all these veins,
Yea, this solidity and compound mass,
Yes, faith, heartily.
Yet I,
Yet all goes well; yet all our joints are whole.
Yet doth he give us bold advertisement,
Yet have I in me something dangerous,
Yet here she is allow'd her virgin crants,
Yet herein will I imitate the sun,
Yet must not we put the strong law on him.
Yet needfull too; for youth no less becomes
Yet oftentimes it doth present harsh rage,
Yet such extenuation let me beg
Yet the unshaped use of it doth move
Yet this before my father's Majesty-
Yet what can it when one cannot repent?
You are the Queen, your husband's brother's wife,
You are welcome, masters; welcome, all.- I am glad to see thee
You cannot call it love; for at your age
You conjure from the breast of civil peace
You do not understand yourself so clearly
You do remember all the circumstance?
You from the Polack wars, and you from England,
You go not till I set you up a glass
You have been talk'd of since your travel much,
You heavenly guards! What would your gracious figure?
You know the wager?
You laying these slight sullies on my son
You mainly were stirr'd up.
You must needs learn, lord, to amend this fault.
You must not put another scandal on him,
You must not take for fire. From this time
You must translate; 'tis fit we understand them.
You need not tell us what Lord Hamlet said.
You owe money here besides, Sir John, for your diet and
You shall have your desires with interest,
You speak it out of fear and cold heart.
You stand against anointed majesty!
You that look pale and tremble at this chance,
You took occasion to be quickly woo'd
You tread upon my patience; but be sure
You were about to speak.
You were of our determination!
You, as your business and desires shall point you,
You, son John, and my cousin Westmoreland,
Young Harry Percy, and brave Archibald,
Your Grace has laid the odds o' th' weaker side.
Your Majesty's good thoughts away from me!
Your bait of falsehood takes this carp of truth;
Your banish'd honours and restore yourselves
Your bedded hairs, like life in excrements,
Your loneliness.- We are oft to blame in this,
Your party in converse, him you would sound,
Your skill shall, like a star i' th' darkest night,
Your son in Scotland being thus employ'd,
Your sudden coming o'er to play with you.
Your tenants, friends, and neighbouring gentlemen.
Your uncle Worcester's horse came but to-day;
Your visitation shall receive such thanks
Your wisdom best shall think.
Zounds, I will speak of him, and let my soul
[Aside] To my sick soul (as sin's true nature is)
[Reads]'High and Mighty,-You shall know I am set naked on your
[Sings] By Gis and by Saint Charity,
[Sings] For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy.
[Sings] O, a pit of clay for to be made
[To Glend.] Within that space you may have drawn together
[To Laertes] Strengthen your patience in our last night's speech.
a bawdy house not above once in a quarter- of an hour, paid money
a buff jerkin a most sweet robe of durance?
a castle, cocksure. We have the receipt of fernseed, we walk
a chough; but, as I say, spacious in the possession of dirt.
a cup of sack with lime in it- a villanous coward! Go thy ways,
a cup of sack. I am a rogue if I drunk to-day.
a fat pair of gallows; for if I hang, old Sir John hangs with me,
a hundred and fifty soldiers, three hundred and odd pounds. I
a kind of yesty collection, which carries them through and
a mountain, open, palpable. Why, thou clay-brain'd guts, thou
a pint of bastard in the Half-moon,' or so- but, Ned, to drive
a place of meeting, wherein it is at our pleasure to fail; and
a struck fowl or a hurt wild duck. I press'd me none but such
a thing to you from his Majesty.
about the mazzard with a sexton's spade. Here's fine revolution,
about thy soul, that thou soldest him on Good Friday last for a
act hath three branches-it is to act, to do, and to perform;
action how like an angel! in apprehension how like a god! the
action. Zounds, an I were now by this rascal, I could brain him
admiral, thou bearest the lantern in the poop- but 'tis in the
afeard? Thou being heir apparent, could the world pick thee out
affectation; but call'd it an honest method, as wholesome as
afoot with me, and the stony-hearted villains know it well
again.
against the which he has impon'd, as I take it, six French
against their own succession.
air, look you, this brave o'erhanging firmament, this majestical
alderman's thumb-ring. A plague of sighing and grief! It blows a
all compass- out of all reasonable compass, Sir John.
all cowards! Give me a cup of sack, rogue. Is there no virtue
all our proceedings. O, I could divide myself and go to buffets
all the racks in the world, I would not tell you on compulsion.
all welcome. We'll e'en to't like French falconers, fly at
all, and sung to filthy tunes, let a cup of sack be my poison.
alone became their prisoner. They have dealt with me like thieves
along with company, for they have great charge.
along with me.
already waylaid; yourself and I will not be there; and when they
altitude of a chopine. Pray God your voice, like a piece of
altogether govern'd by humours. Lie still, ye thief, and hear the
am a villain. And yet you will stand to it; you will not pocket
amazement and admiration.
amble, and you lisp; you nickname God's creatures and make your
amen! Give me a cup of sack, boy. Ere I lead this life long, I'll
an arm? No. Or take away the grief of a wound? No. Honour hath no
an egg and butter.
an old host that I know is damn'd. If to be fat be to be hated,
an old lady's loose gown! I am withered like an old apple John.
ancient gentlemen but gard'ners, ditchers, and grave-makers. They
ancient; and such have I to fill up the rooms of them that have
and I will do it in King Cambyses' vein.
and I'll swear I kill'd him. Why may not he rise as well as I?
and are they not some of them set forward already? What a pagan
and aunt-mother are deceiv'd.
and clocks the tongues of bawds, and dials the signs of leaping
and here's some for me. We may call it herb of grace o' Sundays.
and his tricks? Why does he suffer this rude knave now to knock
and leave sack, and live cleanly, as a nobleman should do.
and many more of the same bevy that I know the drossy age dotes
and meet me to-night in Eastcheap. There I'll sup. Farewell.
and one poor pennyworth of sugar candy to make thee long-winded-
and ostlers trade-fall'n; the cankers of a calm world and a long
and shows a most pitiful ambition in the fool that uses it. Go
and spent with crying 'Bring in'; now ill as low an ebb as the
and sure, dear friends, my thanks are too dear a halfpenny. Were
and swore the devil his true liegeman upon the cross of a Welsh
and thou knowest he is no starveling. Tut! there are other
and we had the trick to see't. Did these bones cost no more the
and wert indeed, but for the light in thy face, the son of utter
and wert taken with the manner, and ever since thou hast blush'd
and, my lord, he speaks most vilely of you, like a foul-mouth'd
anon.
another! (They whistle.) Whew! A plague upon you all! Give me my
answer is I can make, you shall command; or rather, as you say,
anything we see. We'll have a speech straight. Come, give us a
apiece and a seal-ring of my grandfather's.
appurtenance of welcome is fashion and ceremony. Let me comply
are no better), their writers do them wrong to make them exclaim
are squires of the night's body be called thieves of the day's
are unwrung.
are welcome,' with this shrill addition, 'Anon, anon, sir! Score
argal, she drown'd herself wittingly.
art accompanied. For though the camomile, the more it is trodden
art heir apparent- But I prithee, sweet wag, shall there be
article, and his infusion of such dearth and rareness as, to make
as hot as molten lead, and as heavy too. God keep lead out of me!
as your daughter may conceive. Friend, look to't.
ask'd. Shall the son of England prove a thief and take purses? A
assigns, and three liberal-conceited carriages: that's the French
away the time till Falstaff come, I prithee do thou stand in some
back again to my mother.
bad epitaph than their ill report while you live.
bald crown.
ball of wildfire, there's no purchase in money. O, thou art a
banes- such a commodity of warm slaves as had as lieve hear the
bar the door upon your own liberty, if you deny your griefs to
bargain; for he was never yet a breaker of proverbs. He will give
be there, in respect of the love I bear your house.' He could be
be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, thou shalt not escape
bear.
beauty of the world, the paragon of animals! And yet to me what
beauty. Let us be Diana's Foresters, Gentlemen of the Shade,
beck than I have thoughts to put them in, imagination to give
before- I blush'd to hear his monstrous devices.
beg during life. But who comes here?
beguile me of it. I bought you a dozen of shirts to your back.
behalf of that Falstaff.
being son to me, art thou so pointed at? Shall the blessed sun of
believe none of us. Go thy ways to a nunnery. Where's your
bellow for revenge.
bet against the Danish. Why is this all impon'd, as you call it?
better proposer could charge you withal, be even and direct with
blackberries, I would give no man a reason upon compulsion, I.
bleed, and then to beslubber our garments with it and swear it
boarded them. On the instant they got clear of our ship; so I
bonnet to his right use. 'Tis for the head.
born.
both in word and matter, hang me up by the heels for a
bought out their services that you would think that I had a
bowcase, you vile standing tuck!
brawling dost thou keep!
break the pate on thee, I am a very villain. Come, and be hang'd!
breeding but to play at loggets with 'em? Mine ache to think
bring my gelding out of the stable. Farewell, you muddy knave.
brings back to him, that you attend him in the hall. He sends to
brought three hundred marks with him in gold. I heard him tell it
brought, the gentleman willing, and the King hold his purpose,
but I mark'd him not; and yet he talked very wisely, but I
but now the time gives it proof. I did love you once.
by the moon And the seven stars, and not by Phoebus, he, that
by the tree, then, peremptorily I speak it, there is virtue in
by them, in his meed he's unfellowed.
by-drinkings, and money lent you, four-and-twenty pound.
by-room while I question my puny drawer to what end be gave me
calumny. Get thee to a nunnery. Go, farewell. Or if thou wilt
can call them all by their christen names, as Tom, Dick, and
carbonado of me. I like not such grinning honour as Sir Walter
carpenter?
carried away. The Poisoner wooes the Queen with gifts; she
carry cannon by our sides. I would it might be hangers till then.
chamber, and tell her, let her paint an inch thick, to this
chandler's in Europe. I have maintained that salamander of yours
choose but weep to think they would lay him i' th' cold ground.
chronicles of the time. After your death you were better have a
church is made of, I am a peppercorn, a brewer's horse. The
church. Argal, the gallows may do well to thee. To't again, come!
city? Are they so follow'd?
civil buffeting hold, we shall buy maidenheads as they buy
clock. If I may be believ'd, so; if not, let them that should
close to the ground, and list if thou canst hear the tread of
clouts.
coin his nose, let them coin his cheeks. I'll not pay a denier.
cold, to sleep, to drink; but I tell you, my lord fool, out of
come after?
come in when ye will.                                  Exit.
comes in again, seem to condole with her. The dead body is
comfit-maker's wife. 'Not you, in good sooth!' and 'as true as I
commonwealth, or rather, not pray to her, but prey on her, for
comparative, rascalliest, sweet young prince. But, Hal, I prithee
compass; and now I live out of all order, out of all compass.
content to do the profession some grace; that would (if matters
contented- why is he not then? In respect of the love he bears
continual practice. I shall win at the odds. But thou wouldst not
convocation of politic worms are e'en at him. Your worm is your
corrupt a saint. Thou hast done much harm upon me, Hal- God
could be better bit than I have been since the first cock.
could find in my heart-
counsel. Come, my coach! Good night, ladies. Good night, sweet
countenance. Farewell; you shall find me in Eastcheap.
counterfeit too, and rise? By my faith, I am afraid he would
counterfeit, or that hot termagant Scot had paid me scot and lot
counterfeit. Thou art essentially mad without seeming so.
counterfeit; for he is but the counterfeit of a man who hath not
counterpoise of so great an opposition.' Say you so, say you so?
coward with thy indenture and show it a fair pair of heels and
coward, Hal.
coward, but I would give a thousand pound I could run as fast as
coward, this bed-presser, this horseback-breaker, this huge hill
cowards as ever turn'd back; and for the third, if he fight
creature of bombast? How long is't ago, Jack, since thou sawest
creature.
crown, kisses it, pours poison in the sleeper's ears, and
cup of Madeira and a cold capon's leg?
dagger of lath and drive all thy subjects afore thee like a flock
dare scarce come thither.
dark, Hal, that thou couldst not see thy hand.
darkness. When thou ran'st up Gadshill in the night to catch my
defence?
delivered as far as Charing Cross.
demanded of a sponge, what replication should be made by the son
desert, and who should scape whipping? Use them after your own
deserved at the hands of Fortune that she sends you to prison
devil as a drum; such as fear the report of a caliver worse than
did the first murther! This might be the pate of a Politician,
did you, Bardolph. You are lions too, you ran away upon instinct,
died. They say he made a good end.
discourse most eloquent music. Look you, these are the stops.
discourse to your beauty.
discovery, and your secrecy to the King and Queen moult no
dissolutely spent on Tuesday morning; got with swearing 'Lay by,'
do, crawling between earth and heaven? We are arrant knaves all;
door. Shall we be merry?
doth from labouring: thou layest the plot how.
down since Robin Ostler died.
down. Then did we two set on you four and, with a word, outfac'd
downstairs, his eloquence the parcel of a reckoning. I am not yet
dreadfully attended. But in the beaten way of friendship, what
dropsies, that huge bombard of sack, that stuff'd cloakbag of
drunk me would have bought me lights as good cheap at the dearest
dungeons, Denmark being one o' th' worst.
eagle's talent in the waist; I could have crept into any
early, at Gadshill! There are pilgrims gong to Canterbury with
earth; of earth we make loam; and why of that loam (whereto he
else- an Ebrew Jew.
else. I have drunk medicines. Poins! Hal! A plague upon you both!
end his part in peace; the clown shall make those laugh whose
end.
endured; and in the reproof of this lies the jest.
enough, and likelihood to lead it; as thus: Alexander died,
enough. A plague upon it when thieves cannot be true one to
enough: swore little, dic'd not above seven times a week, went to
entertainment than yours. You are welcome. But my uncle-father
entertainment the players shall receive from you. We coted them
epitaph is 'For O, for O, the hobby-horse is forgot!'
equity stirring. There's no more valour in that Poins than in a
equivocation will undo us. By the Lord, Horatio, this three years
ere you had done.
escoted? Will they pursue the quality no longer than they can
especially where he speaks of Priam's slaughter. If it live in
ever I see!
every hedge.
excellence; but to know a man well were to know himself.
excellent voice, in this little organ, yet cannot you make it
exhalations?
extant?
extempore. Thou hadst fire and sword on thy side, and yet thou
eyes. Prithee no more!
faculties! in form and moving how express and admirable! in
faith!
falsehood may.
father?
favour she must come. Make her laugh at that. Prithee, Horatio,
favours?
fay, I cannot reason.
feather. I have of late- but wherefore I know not- lost all my
field.
fifty of them, I am a bunch of radish! If there were not two or
fight! What trick, what device, what starting hole canst thou now
fight, and persuaded us to do the like.
find him not within this month, you shall nose him as you go up
find me tractable to any honest reason. Thou seest I am pacified.
find out to hide thee from this open and apparent shame?
fines, his double vouchers, his recoveries. Is this the fine of
fingers and thumbs, give it breath with your mouth, and it will
fire, that's God's angel.' But thou art altogether given over,
first mouth'd, to be last Swallowed. When he needs what you have
flame-coloured taffeta, I see no reason why thou shouldst be so
foot and hand, and with a thought seven of the eleven I paid.
foot of the ladder, and by-and-by in as high a flow as the ridge
foot; and I know, his death will be a march of twelve score. The
for England. Of them I have much to tell thee. Farewell.
for I know thou worshippest Saint Nicholas as truly as a man of
for a leaden dagger, and thy precious rich crown for a pitiful
for a week, laughter for a month, and a good jest for ever.
for fleas. I am stung like a tench.
for going.
for indeed I had the most of them out of prison. There's but a
for love- very near this. I'll speak to him again.- What do you
for moving such a dish of skim milk with so honourable an action!
for ten shillings.
for their bareness, I am surd they never learn'd that of me.
for your succession in Denmark?
forgive thee for it! Before I knew thee, Hal, I knew nothing; and
forgot upon the face of the earth, then am I a shotten herring.
form and pressure. Now this overdone, or come tardy off, though
forth.
fortunes turn Turk with me-with two Provincial roses on my raz'd
forward to-night.
four foot by the squire further afoot, I shall break my wind.
fourscore hogsheads. I have sounded the very bass-string of
fourteen,' an hour after, 'a trifle, a trifle.' I prithee call in
freely, or the blank verse shall halt fort. What players are
from my shoulders.
full of most excellent differences, of very soft society and
further trade with us?
gallows standing in England when thou art king? and resolution
gentleman.'
gentlemen of companies- slaves as ragged as Lazarus in the
gentlewoman, she should have been buried out o' Christian burial.
gently; for in the very torrent, tempest, and (as I may say)
girdle break.
give thee this neck.
given you one face, and you make yourselves another. You jig, you
glean'd, it is but squeezing you and, sponge, you shall be dry
gone, far gone! And truly in my youth I suff'red much extremity
good trading that way. But tell me, Hal, art not thou horrible
governed, as the sea is, by the moon. As, for proof now: a purse
government, being governed as the sea is, by our noble and chaste
grant you I was down, and out of breath, and so was he; but we
grave-making?
great buyer of land, with his statutes, his recognizances, his
great showing. Indeed, to speak feelingly of him, he is the card
grieve; the censure of the which one must in your allowance
grossly.
guilty of his own death shortens not his own life.
guts, that roasted Manningtree ox with the pudding in his belly,
hack'd?
hairs do witness it; but that he is (saving your reverence) a
half a year. But, by'r Lady, he must build churches then; or else
half-a-dozen more, are at the door. Shall I let them in?
hanging of the thieves and so become a rare hangman.
has my husband, man by man, boy by boy, servant by servant. The
hast tired thyself in base comparisons, hear me speak but this.
hath borne me on his back a thousand tunes. And now how abhorred
hath sent me to you.
hath. Give me life; which if I can save, so; if not, honour comes
haunts thee in the likeness of an old fat man; a tun of man is
have a jest to execute that I cannot manage alone. Falstaff,
have grey beards; that their faces are wrinkled; their eyes
have her.
have misused the King's press damnably. I have got in exchange of
have not craft enough to colour. I know the good King and Queen
have not the skill.
have seen play, and heard others praise, and that highly (not to
have sent for you.
have the booty, if you and I do not rob them, cut this head off
have tribute of me; the adventurous knight shall use his foil and
have vizards for you all; you have horses for yourselves.
he fought with; what wards, what blows, what extremities he
he frets like a gumm'd velvet.
he has laid a great wager on your head. Sir, this is the matter-
he knew me not at first. He said I was a fishmonger. He is far
he.
head? Canst not hear? An 'twere not as good deed as drink to
hear? Let them be well us'd; for they are the abstract and brief
hearts of gold, all the titles of good fellowship come to you!
heaven prove a micher and eat blackberries? A question not to be
heavily with my disposition that this goodly frame, the earth,
help to hasten them?
herald's coat without sleeves; and the shirt, to say the truth,
here, I can tell you.
here, I would cudgel him like a dog if he would say so.
here. Here's no scoring but upon the pate. Soft! who are you?
heroes the beggars' shadows. Shall we to th' court? for, by my
him a thousand pound.
him about the sconce with a dirty shovel, and will not tell him
him and drown him, he drowns not himself. Argal, he that is not
him and he her. She kneels, and makes show of protestation
him and my daughter.- My honourable lord, I will most humbly take
him asleep, leaves him. Anon comes in a fellow, takes off his
him? This is the most omnipotent villain that ever cried 'Stand!'
himself. I look to be either earl or duke, I can assure you.
himself; there are no tongues else for's turn.
his age some fifty, or, by'r Lady, inclining to threescore; and
his answer?
his authorities. But such officers do the King best service in
his business.
his fines, and the recovery of his recoveries, to have his fine
his kibe.- How long hast thou been a grave-maker?
his love.
his purchases, and double ones too, than the length and breadth
his replies are! a happiness that often madness hits on, which
his wife, Baptista. You shall see anon. 'Tis a knavish piece of
history, pastoral, pastoral-comical, historical-pastoral,
hither?
hobnails, by the hundreds.
hold up Adam's profession.
holds it no sin to tarre them to controversy. There was, for a
honesty from what it is to a bawd than the force of honesty can
honour and dignity. The less they deserve, the more merit is in
hook- what a plague call you him?
horse, if I did not think thou hadst been an ignis fatuus or a
horse, you rogues! give me my horse and be hang'd!
horse.
hour that I can drink with any tinker in his own language during
hourly any time this two-and-twenty years, and yet I am bewitch'd
houses, and the blessed sun himself a fair hot wench in
how the wheel becomes it! It is the false steward, that stole his
humanity so abominably.
humility. Sirrah, I am sworn brother to a leash of drawers and
hundred and fifty left alive; and they are for the town's end, to
hundred and fifty tattered Prodigals lately come from
husband, look to thy servants, cherish thy guests. Thou shalt
i' faith.
i' th' university, you say?
if that his Majesty would aught with us,
if thy pocket were enrich'd with any other injuries but these, I
if your lordship would vouchsafe the answer.
image of a murther done in Vienna. Gonzago is the duke's name;
imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander till he find it
in foul way?
in mine inn but I shall have my pocket pick'd? I have lost a
in mine own house before!
in my imagination it is! My gorge rises at it. Here hung those
in tallow.
in the house. And, Falstaff, you carried your guts away as
in the morning, and so good morrow, Peto.
in thy father's exchequer. What a plague mean ye to colt me thus?
individable, or poem unlimited. Seneca cannot be too heavy, nor
innovation.
inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of it. I loved you
insensible then? Yea, to the dead. But will it not live with the
insert in't, could you not?
inside of a church! Company, villanous company, hath been the
instinct. I shall think the better of myself, and thee, during my
into England.
into a toil?
intolerable deal of sack! What there is else, keep close; we'll
invisible.
is at the door.
is but variable service- two dishes, but to one table. That's the
is dangerous'- Why, that's certain! 'Tis dangerous to take a
is in his robes, burning, burning. if thou wert any way given to
is this quintessence of dust? Man delights not me- no, nor woman
it is but a shadow's shadow.
it is the breathing time of day with me. Let the foils be
it make the unskilful laugh, cannot but make the judicious
it means, say you this:
it not?
it was so dark thou couldst not see thy hand? Come, tell us your
it!
it. Adieu.
it? wherein neat and cleanly, but to carve a capon and eat it?
journeymen had made men, and not made them well, they imitated
keep out water a great while; and your water is a sore decayer of
keep thieves in my house? I have search'd, I have enquired, so
kill'd me.
king of infinite space, were it not that I have bad dreams.
king, as, God save thy Grace-Majesty I should say, for grace thou
kingdom. To-morrow shall I beg leave to see your kingly eyes;
kissing carrion- Have you a daughter?
knave jowls it to the ground,as if 'twere Cain's jawbone, that
knotty-pated fool, thou whoreson obscene greasy tallow-catch-
know a hawk from a handsaw.
know if your pleasure hold to play with Laertes, or that you will
know, to divide him inventorially would dozy th' arithmetic of
labour in his vocation.
lad of mettle, a good boy (by the Lord, so they call me!), and
ladies. Good night, good night.                         Exit
lady sing in Welsh.
ladyship is nearer to heaven than when I saw you last by the
laid on twelve for nine, and it would come to immediate trial
last king Hamlet overcame Fortinbras.
last.
law? Do not thou, when thou art king, hang a thief.
lay him down such reasons for this adventure that he shall go.
leaves him. The Queen returns, finds the King dead, and makes
let him enter. If I become not a cart as well as another man, a
letters for him. Ere we were two days old at sea, a pirate of
lewdly, given, he deceiveth me; for, Harry, I see virtue in his
lie. What a lack-brain is this! By the Lord, our plot is a good
life,
life- I for a valiant lion, and thou for a true prince. But, by
light for the bore of the matter. These good fellows will bring
lips that I have kiss'd I know not how oft. Where be your gibes
liquor.
little. 'Sblood, there is something in this more than natural, if
live!' and 'as God shall mend me!' and 'as sure as day!'
liveth, is to be no counterfeit, but the true and perfect image
living? No. Why? Detraction will not suffer it. Therefore I'll
longer than he sees reason, I'll forswear arms. The virtue of
look, a pleasing eye, and a most noble carriage; and, as I think,
looks. If then the tree may be known by the fruit, as the fruit
lord of beasts, and his crib shall stand at the king's mess. 'Tis
love passing well.
loves our house. Let me see some more. 'The purpose you undertake
lowest note to the top of my compass; and there is much music,
lungs are tickle o' th' sere; and the lady shall say her mind
made thee butter. But tell me, Jack, whose fellows are these that
make you at Elsinore?
make you ready.
man as he is, and said he would cudgel you.
man is twice a child.
man up like a bladder. There's villanous news abroad. Here was
man whom I have often noted in thy company, but I know not  his
man; good. If the man go to this water and drown himself, it is,
march. [Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz,
march?
married already- all but one- shall live; the rest shall keep as
master's daughter.
masters of their wealth. Mark now how a plain tale shall put you
match have you made with this jest of the drawer? Come, what's
may be believed, that the true prince may (for recreation sake)
may buy land now as cheap as stinking mack'rel.
me a thousand marks in links and torches, walking with thee in
me flatly I am no proud Jack like Falstaff, but a Corinthian, a
me mad. I say, we will have no moe marriages. Those that are
me of such things that it were better my mother had not borne me.
me off when I come on? How then? Can honor set to a leg? No. Or
me villain and baffle me.
me, whether you were sent for or no.
medicines to make me love him, I'll be hang'd. It could not be
meet me at town's end.
memory, and yet but yaw neither in respect of his quick sail.
men, mortal men.
might it not?
mind.
mine.
mirth, forgone all custom of exercises; and indeed, it goes so
mistress the moon, under whose countenance we steal.
money shall be paid back again with advantage. Be with me betimes
monsters you make of them. To a nunnery, go; and quickly too.
more than I know. That he is old (the more the pity) his white
more than their even-Christen. Come, my spade! There is no
more truth in thee than in a drawn fox; and for woman-hood, Maid
more, ha?
morning. That same mad fellow of the North, Percy, and he of
mother's cat had but kitten'd, though yourself had never been
much approve me. Well, sir?
musty.
my leave of you.
my life. I tell thee, Ned, thou hast lost much honour that thou
my mother. Therefore no more, but to the matter! My mother, you
my pocket?
myself; Lord Edmund Mortimer, my Lord of York, and Owen
name of Ned, I give thee this pennyworth of sugar, clapp'd even
name.
napkins tack'd together and thrown over the shoulders like a
nature: for anything so overdone is from the purpose of playing,
neat's-tongue, you bull's sizzle, you stockfish- O for breath to
neck. He lays him down upon a bank of flowers. She, seeing
need'st him, there thou shalt find him. Farewell and stand fast.
needs marry, marry a fool; for wise men know well enough what
neither, though by your smiling you seem to say so.
never a king's son in Christendom.
never did such deeds in arms as I have done this day. I have paid
newly come to court Laertes; believe me, an absolute gentleman,
news at court. For the robbery, lad- how is that answered?
next way to give poor jades the bots. This house is turned upside
nimbly, with as quick dexterity, and roar'd for mercy, and still
no man regards it.
no more ado but took all their seven points in my target, thus.
none of it. Honour is a mere scutcheon- and so ends my catechism.
noon, that thou hast forgotten to demand that truly which thou
nor no matter in the phrase that might indict the author of
nor thou cam'st not of the blood royal if thou darest not stand
nose of thee. Thou art the Knight of the Burning Lamp.
not honesty to have it thus set down; for you yourself, sir,
not in words only, but in woes also: and yet there is a virtuous
not march through Coventry with them, that's flat. Nay, and the
not mend his pace with beating; and when you are ask'd this
not off.
not only marvel where thou spendest thy time, but also how thou
not saw the air too much with your hand, thus, but use all
not so wildly from my affair.
not the million, 'twas caviary to the general; but it was (as I
not to come, it will be now; if it be not now, yet it will come:
not who sees Your back. Call you that backing of your friends? A
not, tarry at home and be hang'd!
not-pated, agate-ring, puke-stocking, caddis-garter,
not.
noted outward garments.
nothing?
now I remember me, his name is Falstaff. If that man should be
now am I, if a man should speak truly, little better than one of
now into my hand by an under-skinker, one that never spake other
now? your gambols? your songs? your flashes of merriment that
nowhere but in's own house. Farewell.
o'erweigh a whole theatre of others. O, there be players that I
obligation of our ever-preserved love, and by what more dear a
occasion of my sudden and more strange return.
of Daventry. But that's all one; they'll find linen enough on
of Percy's mind, the Hotspur of the North; he that kills me some
of Wales?
of a death's-head or a memento mori. I never see thy face but I
of a king?
of a pair of indentures? The very conveyances of his lands will
of flesh-
of gold most resolutely snatch'd on Monday night and most
of his action of battery? Hum! This fellow might be in's time a
of life indeed. The better part of valour is discretion; in the
of mercy; but they knew what they did: I am to do a good turn for
of our fellowship, by the consonancy of our youth, by the
of pitch. This pitch, as ancient writers do report, doth defile;
of profiting, that what thou speakest may move and what he hears
of question and are most tyrannically clapp'd fort. These are now
of the day, Unless hours were cups of sack, and minutes capons,
of the fish that hath fed of that worm.
of the gallows.
of the peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier he galls
of wild geese, I'll never wear hair on my face more. You Prince
off. To conclude, I am so good a proficient in one quarter of an
often heard of, and it is known to many in our land by the name
old Jack, die when thou wilt; if manhood, good manhood, be not
on the way, and hither are they coming to offer you service.
on the way, and told me I had unloaded all the gibbets and
on't.
on, only got the tune of the time and outward habit of encounter-
on, the faster it grows, yet youth, the more it is wasted, the
one flesh; and so, my mother. Come, for England!
one that hath abundance of charge too, God knows what. They are
only emperor for diet. We fat all creatures else to fat us, and
or bad but thinking makes it so. To me it is a prison.
or calendar of gentry; for you shall find in him the continent of
or if it was, not above once; for the play, I remember, pleas'd
or, if 'a do not, 'tis no great matter there.
otherwise.
our habits, and by every other appointment, to be ourselves.
our house! He shows in this he loves his own barn better than he
out contracted bachelors, such as had been ask'd twice on the
own grinning? Quite chap- fall'n? Now get you to my lady's
pack'd.- What, ostler!
painted cloth, where the glutton's dogs licked his sores; and
parrot, and yet the son of a woman! His industry is upstairs and
particulars of my life.
passionate action. The Poisoner with some three or four Mutes,
pate full of fine dirt? Will his vouchers vouch him no more of
peace; ten times more dishonourable ragged than an old fac'd
perpetual triumph, an everlasting bonfire-light! Thou hast saved
philosophy could find it out.
pick'd out of ten thousand.
piece of my sword.
piece of work is a man! how noble in reason! how infinite in
pins' heads, and they have bought out their services; and now my
pipe? Call me what instrument you will, though you can fret me,
plague of all cowards I say still!
plague of all cowards! Let them speak, If they speak more or less
plague on my bringing up! I hope I shall as soon be strangled
plague upon such backing! Give me them that will face me. Give me
play my father.
players do, I had as live the town crier spoke my lines. Nor do
plentiful lack of wit, together with most weak hams. All which,
plot as ever was laid; our friends true and constant: a good
plot, good friends, and full of expectation; an excellent plot,
pluck out the heart of my mystery; you would sound me from my
plunge him into far more choler.
pocket pick'd. This house is turn'd bawdy house; they pick
pockets.
pocky corses now-a-days that will scarce hold the laying in, I
point. Poor jade is wrung in the withers out of all cess.
pound! Didst perceive?
powder me and eat me too to-morrow. 'Sblood, 'twas time to
powder. They'll fill a pit as well as better. Tush, man, mortal
prais'd my Lord Such-a-one's horse when he meant to beg it- might
praise them.
pray You Pass with your best violence;
present this twelve o'clock at midnight.
presently.
press me none but good householders, yeomen's sons; inquire me
press'd the dead bodies. No eye hath seen such scarecrows. I'll
prince. Instinct is a great matter. I was now a coward on
promise-cramm'd. You cannot feed capons so.
prove a false thief; for the poor abuses of the time want
prove the better counterfeit. Therefore I'll make him sure; yea,
purging thick amber and plum-tree gum; and that they have a
purpose, confess thyself-
purse-taking.
put another question to thee. If thou answerest me not to the
question more in particular. What have you, my good friends,
question next, say 'a grave-maker.' The houses he makes lasts
question of the play be then to be considered. That's villanous
question to be ask'd. There is a thing, Harry, which thou hast
quick, that I may lay my head in thy lap.
quiddities? What a plague have I to do with a buff jerkin?
rabbit-sucker or a poulter's hare.
rag-of-muffins where they are pepper'd. There's not three of my
ran'st away. What instinct hadst thou for it?
rapiers and poniards, with their assigns, as girdle, hangers, and
rascal is this! an infidel! Ha! you shall see now, in very
rawer breath
read it at more advantage. There let him sleep till day. I'll to
read, my lord?
reason and sanity could not so prosperously be delivered of. I
reason. What sayest thou to this?
receiv'd it, and others, whose judgments in such matters cried in
reckon my groans; but that I love thee best, O most best, believe
regarded him not; and yet he talk'd wisely, and in the street
remember. And there is pansies, that's for thoughts.
removed my horse and tied him I know not where. If I travel but
repair hither and say you are not fit.
reputation and profit, was better both ways.
reward him! If I do grow great, I'll grow less; for I'll purge,
reward valour bear the sin upon their own heads. I'll take it
ribs bare. But, sirrah, make haste. Percy 's already in the
rich offerings, and traders riding to London with fat purses. I
rob the thieves and go merrily to London, it would be argument
rogue will tell us when we meet at supper: how thirty, at least,
roguery to be found in villanous man. Yet a coward is worse than
roof fretted with golden fire- why, it appeareth no other thing
rose both at an instant and fought a long hour by Shrewsbury
run and roar'd, as ever I heard bullcalf. What a slave art thou
run from it?
running!
runs a-horseback up a hill perpendicular-
sack. Our soldiers shall march through. We'll to Sutton Co'fil'
say-
say. I would I were a weaver; I could sing psalms or anything. A
says Sir John Sack and Sugar? Jack, how agrees the devil and thee
says to his wife, 'Fie upon this quiet life! I want work.' 'O my
scape hanging for killing that rogue. I have forsworn his company
scarcely lie in this box; and must th' inheritor himself have no
sceptre, and this cushion my, crown.
scorn her own image, and the very age and body of the time his
seal-ring of my grandfather's worth forty mark.
seeks her own salvation?
seems harsh and unwilling awhile, but in the end accepts
seems to me a sterile promontory; this most excellent canopy, the
sense.
sequel at the heels of this mother's admiration? Impart.
servants; for, to speak to you like an honest man, I am most
serving-men, younger sons to Younger brothers, revolted tapsters,
set down with as much modesty as cunning. I remember one said
sew nether-stocks, and mend them and foot them too. A plague of
shall be honourable. I'll procure this fat rogue a charge of
shall be the end of my business.
shall have no sooner achieved, but we'll set upon them.
shall he suffer not thinking on, with the hobby-horse, whose
shall see anon how the murtherer gets the love of Gonzago's wife.
shame and the odd hits.
shipwright, or the carpenter?
shirt and a half in all my company; and the half-shirt is two
shoes, get me a fellowship in a cry of players, sir?
should be look'd into) for their own credit sake make all whole.
should be old as I am if, like a crab, you could go backward.
should have count'nance in this world to drown or hang themselves
show, he'll not shame to tell you what it means.
shows and noise. I would have such a fellow whipp'd for o'erdoing
since the old days of goodman Adam to the pupil age of this
sincerity of fear and cold heart will he to the King and lay open
sing? Will they not say afterwards, if they should grow
sinners? I am myself indifferent honest, but yet I could accuse
sir, an eyrie of children, little eyases, that cry out on the top
sir, it cannot come to so much.
sir, though I most powerfully and potently believe, yet I hold it
sir,- it comes from th' ambassador that was bound for England- if
sirrah [stabs him], with a new wound in your thigh, come you
sirrah, I have cases of buckram for the nonce, to immask our
six or seven dozen of Scots at a breakfast, washes his hands, and
skill in surgery then? No. What is honour? A word. What is that
skull, the King's jester.
slow of sail, we put on a compelled valour, and in the grapple I
smooth-tongue, Spanish-pouch-
so doth the company thou keepest. For, Harry, now I do not speak
so. Three of the carriages, in faith, are very dear to fancy,
son.
sooner it wears. That thou art my son I have partly thy mother's
soul to hear a robustious periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to
souls, it touches us not. Let the gall'd jade winch; our withers
sparrow flying.
speak it profanely), that, neither having the accent of
speak no more than is set down for them. For there be of them
speak sooner than drink, and drink sooner than pray; and yet,
speak. 'Sblood, do you think I am easier to be play'd on than a
spectators to laugh too, though in the mean time some necessary
speech of some dozen or sixteen lines which I would set down and
spent.
spoil of me.
stable.
steal well? O for a fine thief of the age of two-and-twenty or
still say I.
stol'n from my host at Saint Alban's, or the red-nose innkeeper
stopping a bunghole?
strength to repent. An I have not forgotten what the inside of a
strikers, none of these mad mustachio purple-hued maltworms; but
strumpet. What news ?
strutted and bellowed that I have thought some of Nature's
such as can hold in, such as will strike sooner than speak, and
such as indeed were never soldiers, but discarded unjust
suit of sables. O heavens! die two months ago, and not forgotten
superfluous to demand the time of the day.
sweet Harry,' says she, 'how many hast thou  kill'd to-day?'
sweet, and by very much more handsome than fine. One speech in't
swine-keeping, from eating draff and husks. A mad fellow met me
sword; but take my pistol, if thou wilt.
ta'en, I'll peach for this. An I have not ballads made on you
take longer time.
take them all; I'll answer the coinage. Bid my lieutenant Peto
tale to me may be nothing but 'Anon!' Step aside, and I'll show
target; the lover shall not sigh gratis; the humorous man shall
taste of your quality. Come, a passionate speech.
tatters, to very rags, to split the cars of the groundlings, who
tell how. But, my lord, his Majesty bade me signify to you that
tell me one thing.
tell you must show fairly outwards) should more appear like
temperance that may give it smoothness. O, it offends me to the
tenants.
than to fernseed for your walking invisible.
than truth, they are villains and the sons of darkness.
that Falstaff. Him keep with, the rest banish. And tell me now,
that Glendower were come!
that I borrowed- three or four times, lived well, and in good
that I told thee of-
that bolting hutch of beastliness, that swoll'n parcel of
that it may be thought I have wept; for I must speak in passion,
that old white-bearded Satan.
that reverend vice, that grey iniquity, that father ruffian, that
that that ring was copper!
that will themselves laugh, to set on some quantity of barren
the Council rated me the other day in the street about you, sir,
the King.
the Lord, lads, I am glad you have the money. Hostess, clap to
the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
the court in the morning . We must all to the wars. and thy place
the dead, not for the quick; therefore thou liest.
the devil his due.
the doctor; for me to put him to his purgation would perhaps
the doors. Watch to-night, pray to-morrow. Gallants, lads, boys,
the end. He keeps them, like an ape, in the corner of his jaw;
the fall of a sparrow. If it be now, 'tis not to come', if it be
the fashion, and so berattle the common stages (so they call
the guts of a beggar.
the indentures be drawn, I'll away within these two hours; and so
the issue?
the life of a man; but to counterfeit dying when a man thereby
the night betwixt tavern and tavern; but the sack that thou hast
the only men.
the players ready.
the point: if I drown myself wittingly, it argues an act; and an
the puppets dallying.
the readiness is all. Since no man knows aught of what he leaves,
the stair, into the lobby.
the sugar; and do thou never leave calling 'Francis!' that his
the tavern a most sweet wench?
the time itself unsorted, and your whole plot too light for the
the top of mine) an excellent play, well digested in the scenes,
the wicked. I must give over this life, and I will give it over!
thee a precedent.
thee where I am. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern hold their course
their letters to meet me in arms by the ninth of the next month,
them is fat, and grows old. God help the while! A bad world, I
them shape, or time to act them in. What should such fellows as I
them to their trial-the bubbles are out,
them) that many wearing rapiers are afraid of goosequills and
them. Let the King have the letters I have sent, and repair thou
themselves to common players (as it is most like, if their means
then Pharaoh's lean kine are to be loved. No, my good lord.
then they light on us.
then will they adventure upon the exploit themselves; which they
there is a kind of confession in your looks, which your modesties
there were no sallets in the lines to make the matter savoury,
there, seek him i' th' other place yourself. But indeed, if you
thereabouts! I am heinously unprovided. Well, God be thanked for
therefore more frailty. You confess then, you pick'd my pocket?
these rebels. They offend none but the virtuous. I laud them, I
these rogues, I am the veriest varlet that ever chewed with a
they are. To a nunnery, go.                            Exit.
they ride up and down on her and make her their boots.
they'll tell all.
they?
thine eye and a foolish hanging of thy nether lip that doth
thine own knee?
thing, go!
think how ill all's here about my heart. But it is no matter.
think upon hellfire and Dives that lived in purple; for there he
thirty years.
this bosom of thine. It is all fill'd up with guts and midriff.
this gunpowder Percy, though he be dead. How if he should
this jest will lie the incomprehensible lies that this same fat
this nettle, danger, we pluck this flower, safety. 'The purpose
this special observance, that you o'erstep not the modesty of
this, give these fellows some means to the King. They have
those that would make mows at him while my father lived give
thou art Prince, I fear thee as I fear the roaring of the lion's
thou art a knave to call me so.
thou be moved. Give me a cup of sack to make my eyes look red,
thou canst. You are straight enough in the shoulders; you care
thou dost ill to say the gallows is built stronger than the
thou naughty varlet, tell me where hast thou been this month?
thou owest me thy love.
thou variest no more from picking of purses than giving direction
thought your honour had already been at Shrewsbury.
thousand pound this day morning.
three and fifty upon poor old Jack, then am I no two-legg'd
three such enemies again as that fiend Douglas, that spirit
through and through; my sword hack'd like a handsaw- ecce signum!
through the most fann'd and winnowed opinions; and do but blow
thrust through the doublet, four through the hose; my buckler cut
thus fubb'd as it is with the rusty curb of old father antic the
thy companion. Why dost thou converse with that trunk of humours,
thy damnable faces, and begin! Come, the croaking raven doth
thy father. If thou love file, practise an answer.
thy pocket but tavern reckonings, memorandums of bawdy houses,
till doomsday. Go, get thee to Yaughan; fetch me a stoup of
tithe of a hair was never lost in my house before.
to a true man.
to hack thy sword as thou hast done, and then say it was in
to laugh a little.
to me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours. What a
to me with as much speed as thou wouldst fly death. I have words
to one of his company last night at supper- a kind of auditor;
to search the house. Shall I let them in?
to speak in thine ear will make thee dumb; yet are they much too
to the guests within. [Exit Francis.] My lord, old Sir John, with
to thee in drink, but in tears; not in pleasure, but in passion;
to-morrow night in Eastcheap. We may do it as secure as sleep. If
to-night.
to-night; thy father's beard is turn'd white with the news; you
toasts-and-butter, with hearts in their bellies no bigger than
tongue? You will do't, sir, really.
too beggarly.
too.
too. Counterfeit? I lie; I am no counterfeit. To die is to be a
tooth. Eight yards of uneven ground is threescore and ten miles
top of my bent.- I will come by-and-by.
tragedians of the city.
tragical-historical, tragical-comical-historical-pastoral; scene
translate beauty into his likeness. This was sometime a paradox,
travellers.
trippingly on the tongue. But if you mouth it, as many of our
trouble me no more with vanity. I would to God thou and I knew
true diction of him, his semblable is his mirror, and who else
truth out of England but he would make you believe it was done in
tutor. Suit the action to the word, the word to the action; with
twenty, forty, fifty, a hundred ducats apiece for his picture in
two hours together. I have scap'd by miracle. I am eight times
unbuttoning thee after supper, and sleeping upon benches after
uncurrent gold, be not crack'd within the ring.- Masters, you are
unlook'd for, and there's an end.                      Exit.
unto him. He takes her up, and declines his head upon her
up already and call for eggs and butter. They will away
up wrong. Art thou not ashamed?
upon my death, I gave him this wound in the thigh. If the man
us that are the moon's men doth ebb and flow like the sea, being
us!
utter what is like thee!- you tailor's yard, you sheath, you
valanc'd since I saw thee last. Com'st' thou to' beard me in
vanity in years? Wherein is he good, but to taste sack and drink
very day that young Hamlet was born- he that is mad, and sent
very good friends. What a frosty-spirited rogue is this! Why, my
very liberal conceit.
very responsive to the hilts, most delicate carriages, and of
very warlike appointment gave us chase. Finding ourselves too
vice to know him. He hath much land, and fertile. Let a beast be
villains march wide betwixt the legs, as if they had gyves on;
villany? Thou seest I have more flesh than another man, and
virtue, I would swear by thy face; my oath should be 'By this
visitation? Come, deal justly with me. Come, come! Nay, speak.
wand'ring knight so fair. And I prithee, sweet wag, when thou art
wantonness your ignorance. Go to, I'll no more on't! it hath made
wardrobe. 'Sblood, I am as melancholy as a gib-cat or a lugg'd
warrant me. If then thou be son to me, here lies the point: why,
was as virtuously given as a gentleman need to be, virtuous
was converted) might they not stop a beer barrel?
was the blood of true men. I did that I did not this seven year
was the death of him.
waterfly?
way, so; if he do not, if I come in his willingly, let him make a
we fat ourselves for maggots. Your fat king and your lean beggar
well as waiting in the court, I can tell you.
well.- Welcome, good friends.- O, my old friend? Why, thy face is
went to cuffs in the question.
were alive and would deny it, zounds! I would make him eat a
were to be saved by merit, what hole in hell were hot enough for
were wont to set the table on a roar? Not one now, to mock your
wert not with me in this action. But, sweet Ned- to sweeten which
what is't to leave betimes? Let be.
what part a gentleman would see.
what, Hal- if I tell thee a lie, spit in my face, call me horse.
whelp.
when I am King of England I shall command all the good lads
when I shall (first asking your pardon thereunto) recount the
where a commodity of good names were to be bought. An old lord of
where it would not, I have used my credit.
where my abridgment comes.
where to have me, thou knave, thou!
wherein cunning, but in craft? wherein crafty, but in villany?
wherein villanous, but in all things? wherein worthy, but in
which better part I have saved my life. Zounds, I am afraid of
which this ass now o'erreaches; one that would circumvent God,
which was the model of that Danish seal;
while, no money bid for argument unless the poet and the player
whirlwind of your passion, you must acquire and beget a
whole charge consists of ancients, corporals, lieutenants,
whoremaster, that I utterly deny. If sack and sugar be a fault,
whoreson caterpillars! bacon-fed knaves! they hate us youth. Down
whoreson, impudent, emboss'd rascal, if there were anything in
whose end, both at the first and now, was and is, to hold, as
wild duck.
will do me any honour, so; if not, let him kill the next Percy
will he nill he, he goes- mark you that. But if the water come to
will last you some eight year or nine year. A tanner will last
will leave him and suddenly contrive the means of meeting between
will speak to this fellow. Whose grave's this, sirrah?
willingly part withal- except my life, except my life, except my
wilt have none-
wilt, and, thou shalt have it.
with a halter as another.
with fire any time this two-and-thirty years. God reward me for
with his lady's fan. Is there not my father, my uncle, and
with nobility, and tranquillity, burgomasters and great oneyers,
with the rogue's company. If the rascal have not given me
with them! fleece them!
with unwash'd hands too.
with you in this garb, lest my extent to the players (which I
within 's two hours.
wives; they have made bolters of them.
wood; our wizards we will change after we leave them; and,
word honour? Air. A trim reckoning! Who hath it? He that died a
word, partly my own opinion, but chiefly a villanous trick of
work; but what o' that? Your Majesty, and we that have free
world.
would give you some violets, but they wither'd all when my father
would perhaps trouble a woman.
would play upon me; you would seem to know my stops; you would
would speak with you. He says he comes from your father.
would trace him, his umbrage, nothing more.
wouldest truly know. What a devil hast thou to do with the time
yet? Then there's hope a great man's memory may outlive his life
you breathe in your watering, they cry 'hem!' and bid you play it
you cannot play upon me.
you from your prize, and have it; yea, and can show it you here
you go about to recover the wind of me, as if you would drive me
you i' th' earth three-and-twenty years.
you nine year.
you not sent for? Is it your own inclining? Is it a free
you too; but my powers are there already. The King, I can tell
you undertake is dangerous, the friends you have named uncertain,
you will go, I will stuff your purses full of crowns; if you will
you will not touch the true prince; no- fie!
you yesternight. There's a franklin in the Wild of Kent hath
you, Francis, your white canvas doublet will sully. In Barbary,
you, looks for us all. We must away all, to-night.
you, my masters. Was it for me to kill the heir apparent? Should
you.
young men must live. You are grandjurors, are ye? We'll jure ye,
young prince, i' faith.
your bounty. Take them in.
your chimney, and your chamber-lye breeds fleas like a loach.
your friend.
your memory, begin at this line- let me see, let me see:
your mother's commandment; if not, your pardon and my return
your name be Horatio, as I am let to know it is.
your table!
your whoreson dead body. Here's a skull now. This skull hath lien
yourself and him, he shall not exceed you three hits; he hath
zounds, I lie; for they pray continually to their saint, the
Enter Douglas. He fighteth with Falstaff, who falls down as if
He takes up Hotspur on his hack. [Enter Prince, and John of
They fight. The King being in danger, enter Prince of Wales.
Will You walk out of the air, my lord?
You say right, sir; a Monday morning; twas so indeed.
1. Car. God's body! the turkeys in my pannier are quite starved.
1. Car. Heigh-ho! an it be not four by the day, I'll be hang'd.
1. Car. I prithee, Tom, beat Cut's saddle, put a few flocks in the
1. Car. I think it be two o'clock.
1. Car. Like a tench I By the mass, there is ne'er a king christen
1. Car. Nay, by God, soft! I know a trick worth two of that,
1. Car. Poor fellow never joyed since the price of oats rose. It
1. Car. What, ostler! come away and be hang'd! come away!
1. Play. 'Anon he finds him,
1. Play. 'But who, O who, had seen the mobled queen-'
1. Play. 'Run barefoot up and down, threat'ning the flames
1. Play. Ay, my lord.
1. Play. Ay, my lord.
1. Play. What speech, my good lord?
2. Car. Ay, when? canst tell? Lend me thy lantern, quoth he? Marry,
2. Car. I have a gammon of bacon and two razes of ginger, to be
2. Car. I think this be the most villanous house in all London road
2. Car. Peas and beans are as dank here as a dog, and that is the
2. Car. Time enough to go to bed with a candle, I warrant thee.
2. Car. Why, they will allow us ne'er a jordan, and then we leak in
All. Gentlemen!
All. Lights, lights, lights!
All. No, let's come in!
All. Treason! treason!
All. We will, we will!
Ambassador. The sight is dismal;
Arch. And so there is; but yet the King hath drawn
Arch. Hie, good Sir Michael; bear this sealed brief
Arch. I hope no less, yet needful 'tis to fear;
Arch. Like enough you do.
Arch. No, Mortimer is not there.
Archibald, Earl of Douglas.
BARDOLPH
BLUNT
Bald. This bottle makes an angel.
Bar. Case ye, case ye! On with your vizards! There's money of the
Bard. 'Sblood, I would my face were in your belly!
Bard. Choler, my lord, if rightly taken.
Bard. Do, my lord.
Bard. Faith, I ran when I saw others run.
Bard. I Will, Captain. Farewell.                         Exit.
Bard. Indeed, Sir John, you said so.
Bard. My lord, do you see these meteors? Do you behold these
Bard. My lord?
Bard. O, my lord, my lord! the sheriff with a most monstrous watch
Bard. Sir John, you are so fretful you cannot live long.
Bard. What think you they portend?
Bard. Why, Sir John, my face does you no harm.
Bard. Why, you are so fat, Sir John, that you must needs be out of
Bard. Will you give me money, Captain?
Bard. Yea, and to tickle our noses with speargrass to make them
Bard. Yea, two and two, Newgate fashion.
Bardolph.
Blunt. And God defend but still I should stand so,
Blunt. I come with gracious offers from the King,
Blunt. I was not born a yielder, thou proud Scot;
Blunt. I would you would accept of grace and love.
Blunt. Pray God you do.
Blunt. Shall I return this answer to the King?
Blunt. So hath the business that I come to speak of.
Blunt. The circumstance considered, good my lord,
Blunt. They tell thee true.
Blunt. What is thy name, that in the battle thus
Both. Ay, by heaven, my lord.
Both. My lord, we will not.
Both. We will haste us.
Both. We will, my lord.                       Exeunt they two.
Both. We'll wait upon you.
Capt. Against some part of Poland.
Capt. God b' wi' you, sir.                             [Exit.]
Capt. I will do't, my lord.
Capt. The nephew to old Norway, Fortinbras.
Capt. They are of Norway, sir.
Capt. Truly to speak, and with no addition,
Capt. Yes, it is already garrison'd.
Carrier. As fat as butter.
Cham. At hand, quoth pickpurse.
Cham. Good morrow, Master Gadshill. It holds current that I told
Cham. Nay, by my faith, I think you are more beholding to the night
Cham. Nay, rather let me have it, as you are a false thief.
Cham. No, I'll none of it. I pray thee keep that for the hangman;
Cham. What, the commonwealth their boots? Will she hold out water
Clown. 'A was the first that ever bore arms.
Clown. 'Tis a quick lie, sir; 'twill away again from me to you.
Clown. 'Twill not he seen in him there. There the men are as mad as
Clown. (Sings)
Clown. (sings)
Clown. A pestilence on him for a mad rogue! 'A pour'd a flagon of
Clown. A whoreson, mad fellow's it was. Whose do you think it was?
Clown. Ay, marry, is't- crowner's quest law.
Clown. Ay, tell me that, and unyoke.
Clown. Cannot you tell that? Every fool can tell that. It was the
Clown. Cudgel thy brains no more about it, for your dull ass will
Clown. E'en that.
Clown. Faith, e'en with losing his wits.
Clown. Faith, if 'a be not rotten before 'a die (as we have many
Clown. For no man, sir.
Clown. For none neither.
Clown. Give me leave. Here lies the water; good. Here stands the
Clown. How can that be, unless she drown'd herself in her own
Clown. I like thy wit well, in good faith. The gallows does well.
Clown. Is she to be buried in Christian burial when she wilfully
Clown. It must be se offendendo; it cannot be else. For here lies
Clown. Mine, sir.
Clown. Of all the days i' th' year, I came to't that day that our
Clown. One that was a woman, sir; but, rest her soul, she's dead.
Clown. To't.
Clown. Very strangely, they say.
Clown. What is he that builds stronger than either the mason, the
Clown. What, art a heathen? How dost thou understand the Scripture?
Clown. Why, because 'a was mad. 'A shall recover his wits there;
Clown. Why, here in Denmark. I have been sexton here, man and boy
Clown. Why, sir, his hide is so tann'd with his trade that 'a will
Clown. Why, there thou say'st! And the more pity that great folk
Clown. You lie out on't, sir, and therefore 'tis not yours.
DAVY, servant to Shallow
DOLL TEARSHEET
Doug. A fool go with thy soul, whither it goes!
Doug. All's done, all's won. Here breathless lies the King.
Doug. Another king? They grow like Hydra's heads.
Doug. Arm, gentlemen! to arms! for I have thrown
Doug. As heart can think. There is not such a word
Doug. Defy him by the Lord Of Westmoreland.
Doug. Faith, and so we should;
Doug. Here.
Doug. I fear thou art another counterfeit;
Doug. Know then my name is Douglas,
Doug. Marry, and shall, and very willingly.
Doug. Now, by my sword, I will kill all his coats;
Doug. Talk not of dying. I am out of fear
Doug. That's the worst tidings that I hear of yet.
Doug. The Lord of Stafford dear to-day hath bought
Doug. Thou art the king of honour.
Doug. Yea, or to-night.
Doug. You do not counsel well.
Doug. You give him then advantage.
EARL OF KENT
EARL OF NORTHUMBERLAND
EARL OF SURREY
EARL OF WARWICK
EARL OF WESTMORELAND
EDWARD POINS
Earl of Westmoreland.
Edmund Mortimer, Earl of March.
FANG and SNARE, Sheriff's officers
FRANCIS FEEBLE
FRANCIS, a drawer
Fal. 'Sblood, my lord, they are false! Nay, I'll tickle ye for a
Fal. 'Sblood, you starveling, you elf-skin, you dried
Fal. 'Tis not due yet. I would be loath to pay him before his day.
Fal. A goodly portly man, i' faith, and a corpulent; of a cheerful
Fal. A king's son! If I do not beat thee out of thy kingdom with a
Fal. A plague of all cowards, I say, and a vengeance too! Marry and
Fal. A thousand pound, Hal? A million! Thy love is worth a million;
Fal. A-horseback, ye cuckoo! but afoot he will not budge a foot.
Fal. Ah, no more of that, Hal, an thou lovest me!
Fal. All is one for that. (He drinketh.) A plague of all cowards
Fal. All? I know not what you call all, but if I fought not with
Fal. An if it do, take it for thy labour; an if it make twenty,
Fal. And here I stand. Judge, my masters.
Fal. And here is my speech. Stand aside, nobility.
Fal. And unbound the rest, and then come in the other.
Fal. Are not you a coward? Answer me to that- and Poins there?
Fal. Ay, Hal. 'Tis hot, 'tis hot. There's that will sack a city.
Fal. Bardolph, am I not fall'n away vilely since this last action?
Fal. Bardolph, get thee before to Coventry; fill me a bottle of
Fal. Began to give me ground; but I followed me close, came in,
Fal. Both which I have had; but their date is out, and therefore
Fal. But to say I know more harm in him than in myself were to say
Fal. But, as the devil would have it, three misbegotten knaves in
Fal. By the Lord, I knew ye as well as he that made ye. Why, hear
Fal. By the Lord, I'll be a traitor then, when thou art king.
Fal. By the Lord, thou say'st true, lad- and is not my hostess of
Fal. By the mass, lad, thou sayest true; it is like we shall have
Fal. Come, my masters, let us share, and then to horse before day.
Fal. Depose me? If thou dost it half so gravely, so majestically,
Fal. Did I, Bardolph?
Fal. Didst thou? Lord, Lord, how this world is given to lying! I
Fal. Do so, for it is worth the list'ning to. These nine in buckram
Fal. Do thou amend thy face, and I'll amend my life. Thou art our
Fal. Dost thou hear me, Hal?
Fal. Dost thou hear, Hal? Never call a true piece of gold a
Fal. Dost thou hear, Hal? Thou knowest in the state of innocency
Fal. Dowlas, filthy dowlas! I have given them away to bakers'
Fal. Embowell'd? If thou embowel me to-day, I'll give you leave to
Fal. Faith, and I'll send him packing.
Fal. Faith, for their poverty, I know, not where they had that; and
Fal. For God's sake, lords, convey my tristful queen!
Fal. Four, Hal. I told thee four.
Fal. Go hang thyself in thine own heir-apparent garters! If I be
Fal. Go to, I know you well enough.
Fal. God-a-mercy! so should I be sure to be heart-burn'd.
Fal. Hal, if thou see me down in the battle and bestride me, so!
Fal. Hal, wilt thou make one?
Fal. Hang ye, gorbellied knaves, are ye undone? No, ye fat chuffs;
Fal. Have you any levers to lift me up again, being down? 'Sblood,
Fal. He had his part of it; let him pay.
Fal. Hear ye, Yedward: if I tarry at home and go not, I'll hang you
Fal. Hostess, I forgive thee. Go make ready breakfast. Love thy
Fal. How now, how now, mad wag? What, in thy quips and thy
Fal. How? Poor? Look upon his face. What call you rich? Let them
Fal. How? the Prince is a Jack, a sneak-cup. 'Sblood, an he were
Fal. I am a rogue if I were not at half-sword with a dozen of them
Fal. I am accurs'd to rob in that thief's company. The rascal hath
Fal. I call thee coward? I'll see thee damn'd ere I call thee
Fal. I deny your major. If you will deny the sheriff, so; if not,
Fal. I grant ye, upon instinct. Well, he is there too, and one
Fal. I prithee, good Prince Hal, help me to my horse, good king's
Fal. I would 'twere bedtime, Hal, and all well.
Fal. I would it had been of horse. Where shall I find one that can
Fal. I would your Grace would take me with you. Whom means your
Fal. I'll follow, as they say, for reward. He that rewards me, God
Fal. If I be not ashamed of my soldiers, I am a sous'd gurnet. I
Fal. In buckram?
Fal. Indeed you come near me now, Hal; for we that take purses go
Fal. Indeed, I am not John of Gaunt, your grandfather; but yet no
Fal. Lay out, lay out.
Fal. Marry, then, sweet wag, when thou art king, let not us that
Fal. Mine, Hal, mine.
Fal. My lord, the man I know.
Fal. My noble lord, from Eastcheap.
Fal. My own knee? When I was about thy years, Hal, I was not an
Fal. Nay, before God, Hal, if Percy be alive, thou get'st not my
Fal. Nay, that's past praying for. I have pepper'd two of them. Two
Fal. No, I'll be sworn. I make as good use of it as many a man doth
Fal. No, by my troth; not so much as will serve to be prologue to
Fal. No, that's certain! I am not a double man; but if I be not
Fal. No; I'll give thee thy due, thou hast paid all there.
Fal. Now cannot I strike him, if I should be hang'd.
Fal. Now, Hal, what time of day is it, lad?
Fal. Now, my masters, happy man be his dole, say I. Every man to
Fal. O Hal, I prithee give me leave to breathe awhile. Turk Gregory
Fal. O, I do not like that paying back! 'Tis a double labour.
Fal. O, thou hast damnable iteration, and art indeed able to
Fal. Out, ye rogue! Play out the play. I have much to say in the
Fal. Owen, Owen- the same; and his son-in-law Mortimer, and old
Fal. Peace, good pintpot. Peace, good tickle-brain.- Harry, I do
Fal. Poins! Poins, and be hang'd! Poins!
Fal. Prithee let her alone and list to me.
Fal. Rare words! brave world! Hostess, my breakfast, come.
Fal. Rebellion lay in his way, and he found it.
Fal. Rob me the exchequer the first thing thou doest, and do it
Fal. Setting thy womanhood aside, thou art a beast to say
Fal. Seven, by these hilts, or I am a villain else.
Fal. Shall I? Content. This chair shall be my state, this dagger my
Fal. Shall I? O rare! By the Lord, I'll be a brave judge.
Fal. Sixteen at least, my lord.
Fal. So I do, against my will.
Fal. Strike! down with them! cut the villains' throats! Ah,
Fal. The King himself is to be feared as the lion. Dost thou think
Fal. The other night I fell asleep here behind the arras and had my
Fal. Their points being broken-
Fal. There's neither honesty, manhood, nor good fellowship in thee,
Fal. There's no more faith in thee than in a stewed prune, nor no
Fal. These four came all afront and mainly thrust at me. I made me
Fal. Thou hast the most unsavoury similes, and art indeed the most
Fal. Though I could scape shot-free at London, I fear the shot
Fal. To be hang'd.
Fal. Tut, never fear me. I am as vigilant as a cat to steal cream.
Fal. Tut, tut! good enough to toss; food for powder, food for
Fal. Weep not, sweet queen, for trickling tears are vain.
Fal. Well said, Hal! to it, Hal! Nay, you shall find no boy's play
Fal. Well,
Fal. Well, God give thee the spirit of persuasion and him the ears
Fal. Well, Hal, well; and in some sort it jumps with my humour as
Fal. Well, an the fire of grace be not quite out of thee, now shalt
Fal. Well, if Percy be alive, I'll pierce him. If he do come in my
Fal. Well, that rascal hath good metal in him; he will not run.
Fal. Well, thou hast call'd her to a reckoning many a time and oft.
Fal. Well, thou wilt be horribly chid to-morrow when thou comest to
Fal. What beast? Why, an otter.
Fal. What doth gravity out of his bed at midnight? Shall I give him
Fal. What manner of man is he?
Fal. What thing? Why, a thing to thank God on.
Fal. What's the matter? There be four of us here have ta'en a
Fal. What, Hal? How now, mad wag? What a devil dost thou in
Fal. What, art thou mad? art thou mad? Is not the truth the truth?
Fal. What, is the King encamp'd?
Fal. What, upon compulsion? Zounds, an I were at the strappado or
Fal. Where is it, Taken from us it is. A hundred upon poor four of
Fal. Where's Poins, Hal?
Fal. Why, Hal, 'tis my vocation, Hal. 'Tis no sin for a man to
Fal. Why, Hal, thou knowest, as thou art but man, I dare; but as
Fal. Why, she's neither fish nor flesh; a man knows not where to
Fal. Why, that's well said.
Fal. Why, there is it! Come, sing me a bawdy song; make me merry. I
Fal. Wilt thou believe me, Hal? Three or four bonds of forty pound
Fal. Ye lie, hostess. Bardolph was shav'd and lost many a hair, and
Fal. Yea, and so us'd it that, were it not here apparent that thou
Fal. Yea, for obtaining of suits, whereof the hangman hath no lean
Fal. Yea, or the drone of a Lincolnshire bagpipe.
Fal. Yea. if he said my ring was copper.
Fal. You have hit it.
Fal. You lie, ye rogue! 'Tis going to the King's tavern.
Fal. You rogue, here's lime in this sack too! There is nothing but
Fal. You rogue, they were bound, every man of them, or I am a Jew
Fal. Zounds, where thou wilt, lad! I'll make one. An I do not, call
Fal. Zounds, will they not rob us?
For. Go softly on.
For. Go, Captain, from me greet the Danish king.
Fort. Let four captains
Fort. Let us haste to hear it,
Fort. This quarry cries on havoc. O proud Death,
Fort. Where is this sight?
Fran. Anon, anon, sir.
Fran. Anon, anon, sir.                                 [Exit.]
Fran. Anon, anon, sir.- Look down into the Pomgarnet, Ralph.
Fran. Anon, anon.
Fran. Anon, sir.
Fran. Anon, sir. Pray stay a little, my lord.
Fran. Forsooth, five years, and as much as to-
Fran. Let me see. About Michaelmas next I shall be-
Fran. My lord?
Fran. My lord?
Fran. O Lord! I would it had been two!
Fran. O Lord, sir, I'll be sworn upon all the books in England I
Fran. O Lord, sir, who do you mean?
Fran. What, sir?
GOWER
Gads. And bound them.
Gads. As we were sharing, some six or seven fresh men sea upon us-
Gads. Give me thy hand. Thou shalt have a share in our purchase, as
Gads. Go to; 'homo' is a common name to all men. Bid the ostler
Gads. Good morrow, carriers. What's o'clock?
Gads. I pray thee lend me thine.
Gads. I prithee lend me this lantern to see my gelding in the
Gads. She will, she will! Justice hath liquor'd her. We steal as in
Gads. Sirrah carrier, what time do you mean to come to London?
Gads. Sirrah, if they meet not with Saint Nicholas' clerks, I'll
Gads. Some eight or ten.
Gads. Stand!
Gads. That's even as fair as- 'at hand, quoth the chamberlain'; for
Gads. There's enough to make us all.
Gads. We four set upon some dozen-
Gads. What talkest thou to me of the hangman? If I hang, I'll make
Gads. What, ho! chamberlain!
Gadshill
Gent. She is importunate, indeed distract.
Gent. She speaks much of her father; says she hears
Gentlemen. (within) Hamlet! Lord Hamlet!
Ghost. Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate beast,
Ghost. Do not forget. This visitation
Ghost. I am thy father's spirit,
Ghost. I find thee apt;
Ghost. If thou hast nature in thee, bear it not.
Ghost. Mark me.
Ghost. Murther most foul, as in the best it is;
Ghost. My hour is almost come,
Ghost. Pity me not, but lend thy serious hearing
Ghost. Revenge his foul and most unnatural murther.
Ghost. So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear.
Ghost. Swear.
Ghost. [beneath] Swear by his sword.
Ghost. [beneath] Swear.
Ghost. [beneath] Swear.
Glend. A shorter time shall send me to you, lords;
Glend. Come, come, Lord Mortimer. You are as slow
Glend. Come, here's the map. Shall we divide our right
Glend. Come, you shall have Trent turn'd.
Glend. Cousin, of many men
Glend. Do so,
Glend. I can call spirits from the vasty deep.
Glend. I can speak English, lord, as well as you;
Glend. I cannot blame him. At my nativity
Glend. I say the earth did shake when I was born.
Glend. I will not have it alt'red.
Glend. My daughter weeps; she will not part with you;
Glend. Nay, if you melt, then will she run mad.
Glend. No, here it is.
Glend. No, nor you shall not.
Glend. No, that will I.
Glend. Not wind? It shall, it must! You see it doth.
Glend. She bids you on the wanton rushes lay you down
Glend. She is desperate here. A peevish self-will'd harlotry,
Glend. The heavens were all on fire, the earth did tremble.
Glend. The moon shines fair; you may away by night.
Glend. Three times hath Henry Bolingbroke made head
Glend. Why, I can teach you, cousin, to command the devil.
Guil. A thing, my lord?
Guil. Believe me, I cannot.
Guil. But these cannot I command to any utt'rance of harmony. I
Guil. But we both obey,
Guil. But with much forcing of his disposition.
Guil. Faith, her privates we.
Guil. Good my lord, put your discourse into some frame, and start
Guil. Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word with you.
Guil. Happy in that we are not over-happy.
Guil. Heavens make our presence and our practices
Guil. I know, no touch of it, my lord.
Guil. In what, my dear lord?
Guil. Is in his retirement, marvellous distemper'd.
Guil. My honour'd lord!
Guil. My lord, I cannot.
Guil. My lord, we were sent for.
Guil. Nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not of the right breed.
Guil. No, my lord; rather with choler.
Guil. Nor do we find him forward to be sounded,
Guil. O my lord, if my duty be too bold, my love is too unmannerly.
Guil. O, there has been much throwing about of brains.
Guil. Prison, my lord?
Guil. The King, sir-
Guil. The Queen, your mother, in most great affliction of spirit
Guil. There are the players.
Guil. We will ourselves provide.
Guil. What should we say, my lord?
Guil. What, my lord?
Guil. Which dreams indeed are ambition; for the very substance of
HARCOURT
HENRY, PRINCE OF WALES, afterwards HENRY
HOSTESS QUICKLY, of the Boar's Head, Eastcheap
Ham.   A whole one I!
Ham.   Aha! Come, some music! Come, the recorders!
Ham.   Why, let the strucken deer go weep,
Ham. 'By-and-by' is easily said.- Leave me, friends.
Ham. 'Swounds, show me what thou't do.
Ham. 'The Mousetrap.' Marry, how? Tropically. This play is the
Ham. 'The mobled queen'?
Ham. 'Tis e'en so. The hand of little employment hath the daintier
Ham. 'Tis well. I'll have thee speak out the rest of this soon.-
Ham. (within) Mother, mother, mother!
Ham. A bloody deed- almost as bad, good mother,
Ham. A dream itself is but a shadow.
Ham. A goodly one; in which there are many confines, wards, and
Ham. A king of shreds and patches!-
Ham. A man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a king, and eat
Ham. A murtherer and a villain!
Ham. Aha boy, say'st thou so? Art thou there, truepenny?
Ham. Alas, poor ghost!
Ham. Am I not i' th' right, old Jephthah?
Ham. An earnest conjuration from the King,
Ham. And do still, by these pickers and stealers!
Ham. And smelt so? Pah!
Ham. And therefore as a stranger give it welcome.
Ham. Angels and ministers of grace defend us!
Ham. Are you fair?
Ham. As th'art a man,
Ham. As woman's love.
Ham. At supper.
Ham. Ay, lady, it was my word.
Ham. Ay, marry, is't;
Ham. Ay, marry, why was be sent into England?
Ham. Ay, or any show that you'll show him. Be not you asham'd to
Ham. Ay, sir, but 'while the grass grows'- the proverb is something
Ham. Ay, sir, what of him?
Ham. Ay, sir. To be honest, as this world goes, is to be one man
Ham. Ay, sir; that soaks up the King's countenance, his rewards,
Ham. Ay, so, God b' wi' ye!
Ham. Ay, truly; for the power of beauty will sooner transform
Ham. Be not too tame neither; but let your own discretion be your
Ham. Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks; but I thank you;
Ham. Being thus benetted round with villanies,
Ham. Between who?
Ham. Bid the players make haste, [Exit Polonius.] Will you two
Ham. But soft! What noise? Who calls on Hamlet? O, here they come.
Ham. But yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my complexion.
Ham. Buzz, buzz!
Ham. Come for the third, Laertes! You but dally.
Ham. Come on, sir.
Ham. Come, come, and sit you down. You shall not budge I
Ham. Compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis kin.
Ham. Denmark's a prison.
Ham. Do not believe it.
Ham. Do the boys carry it away?
Ham. Do they hold the same estimation they did when I was in the
Ham. Do you not come your tardy son to chide,
Ham. Do you see nothing there?
Ham. Do you see yonder cloud that's almost in shape of a camel?
Ham. Do you think I meant country matters?
Ham. Does it not, thinks't thee, stand me now upon-
Ham. Dost thou think Alexander look'd o' this fashion i' th' earth?
Ham. Ecstasy?
Ham. Excellent well. You are a fishmonger.
Ham. Excellent, i' faith; of the chameleon's dish. I eat the air,
Ham. Follow him, friends. We'll hear a play to-morrow.
Ham. For England?
Ham. For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a god
Ham. Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore. Your hands, come! Th'
Ham. Get thee to a nunnery! Why wouldst thou be a breeder of
Ham. Give me your pardon, sir. I have done you wrong;
Ham. Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue.
Ham. God's bodykins, man, much better! Use every man after his
Ham. Goes it against the main of Poland, sir,
Ham. Good madam!
Ham. Good sir, whose powers are these?
Ham. Good.
Ham. Ha, ha! Are you honest?
Ham. Hark you, Guildenstern- and you too- at each ear a hearer!
Ham. Has this fellow no feeling of his business, that he sings at
Ham. Haste me to know't, that I, with wings as swift
Ham. He did comply with his dug before he suck'd it. Thus has he,
Ham. He poisons him i' th' garden for's estate. His name's Gonzago.
Ham. He that plays the king shall be welcome- his Majesty shall
Ham. He will stay till you come.
Ham. Hear you, sir!
Ham. Heaven make thee free of it! I follow thee.
Ham. Here's the commission; read it at more leisure.
Ham. Here, thou incestuous, murd'rous, damned Dane,
Ham. Hic et ubique? Then we'll shift our ground.
Ham. Hillo, ho, ho, boy! Come, bird, come.
Ham. Hold off your hands!
Ham. Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man
Ham. How absolute the knave is! We must speak by the card, or
Ham. How came he mad?
Ham. How chances it they travel? Their residence, both in
Ham. How comes it? Do they grow rusty?
Ham. How does the Queen?
Ham. How if I answer no?
Ham. How is it with you, lady?
Ham. How long is that since?
Ham. How long will a man lie i' th' earth ere he rot?
Ham. How purpos'd, sir, I pray you?
Ham. How say you then? Would heart of man once think it?
Ham. How strangely?
Ham. I am but mad north-north-west. When the wind is southerly I
Ham. I am constant to my purposes; they follow the King's pleasure.
Ham. I am glad of it. A knavish speech sleeps in a foolish ear.
Ham. I am sorry they offend you, heartily;
Ham. I am tame, sir; pronounce.
Ham. I beseech you remember.
Ham. I could interpret between you and your love, if I could see
Ham. I dare not confess that, lest I should compare with him in
Ham. I dare not drink yet, madam; by-and-by.
Ham. I do beseech you.
Ham. I do not think so. Since he went into France I have been in
Ham. I do not well understand that. Will you play upon this pipe?
Ham. I embrace it freely,
Ham. I have heard of your paintings too, well enough. God hath
Ham. I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was never acted;
Ham. I humbly thank you, sir. [Aside to Horatio] Dost know this
Ham. I humbly thank you; well, well, well.
Ham. I lov'd Ophelia. Forty thousand brothers
Ham. I mean, my head upon your lap?
Ham. I must to England; you know that?
Ham. I pray you.
Ham. I see a cherub that sees them. But come, for England!
Ham. I think it be thine indeed, for thou liest in't.
Ham. I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players. Mark it.-
Ham. I will receive it, sir, with all diligence of spirit. Put your
Ham. I will tell you why. So shall my anticipation prevent your
Ham. I will.
Ham. I would you did, sir; yet, in faith, if you did, it would not
Ham. I'll be with you straight. Go a little before.
Ham. I'll be your foil, Laertes. In mine ignorance
Ham. I'll play this bout first; set it by awhile.
Ham. If she should break it now!
Ham. If thou dost marry, I'll give thee this plague for thy dowry:
Ham. In happy time.
Ham. In heaven. Send thither to see. If your messenger find him not
Ham. In the secret parts of Fortune? O! most true! she is a
Ham. Indeed, upon my sword, indeed.
Ham. Into my grave?
Ham. Is not parchment made of sheepskins?
Ham. Is this a prologue, or the posy of a ring?
Ham. Is't possible?
Ham. It is as easy as lying. Govern these ventages with your
Ham. It is but foolery; but it is such a kind of gaingiving as
Ham. It is not very strange; for my uncle is King of Denmark, and
Ham. It shall to the barber's, with your beard.- Prithee say on.
Ham. It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf there. Be
Ham. It waves me still.
Ham. It will be short; the interim is mine,
Ham. It will not speak. Then will I follow it.
Ham. It would cost you a groaning to take off my edge.
Ham. Judgment!
Ham. Lady, shall I lie in your lap?
Ham. Let her not walk i' th' sun. Conception is a blessing, but not
Ham. Let me see. [Takes the skull.] Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him,
Ham. Let the doors be shut upon him, that he may play the fool
Ham. Look here upon th's picture, and on this,
Ham. Madam, how like you this play?
Ham. Make you a wholesome answer; my wit's diseas'd. But, sir, such
Ham. Marry, this is miching malhecho; it means mischief.
Ham. Methinks it is like a weasel.
Ham. Mother, you have my father much offended.
Ham. Murther?
Ham. My excellent good friends! How dost thou, Guildenstern? Ah,
Ham. My fate cries out
Ham. My lord, I have news to tell you. When Roscius was an actor in
Ham. My mother! Father and mother is man and wife; man and wife is
Ham. Nay come! again!                         The Queen falls.
Ham. Nay, I know not.
Ham. Nay, I know not. Is it the King?
Ham. Nay, but swear't.
Ham. Nay, but to live
Ham. Nay, do not think I flatter;
Ham. Nay, that follows not.
Ham. Never make known what you have seen to-night.
Ham. Never to speak of this that you have seen.
Ham. No such matter! I will not sort you with the rest of my
Ham. No, believe me, 'tis very cold; the wind is northerly.
Ham. No, by the rood, not so!
Ham. No, by this bad.
Ham. No, faith, not a jot; but to follow him thither with modesty
Ham. No, good mother. Here's metal more attractive.
Ham. No, no! They do but jest, poison in jest; no offence i' th'
Ham. No, nor mine now. [To Polonius] My lord, you play'd once
Ham. No, not I!
Ham. No, you will reveal it.
Ham. Nor did you nothing hear?
Ham. Nor the soles of her shoe?
Ham. Not a whit, we defy augury; there's a special providence in
Ham. Not this, by no means, that I bid you do:
Ham. Not where he eats, but where he is eaten. A certain
Ham. Nothing but to show you how a king may go a progress through
Ham. Nothing.
Ham. Now might I do it pat, now he is praying;
Ham. Now, mother, what's the matter?
Ham. O God!
Ham. O God, I could be bounded in a nutshell and count myself a
Ham. O God, your only jig-maker! What should a man do but be merry?
Ham. O Jephthah, judge of Israel, what a treasure hadst thou!
Ham. O all you host of heaven! O earth! What else?
Ham. O good Horatio, I'll take the ghost's word for a thousand
Ham. O my prophetic soul!
Ham. O villany! Ho! let the door be lock'd.
Ham. O wonderful son, that can so stonish a mother! But is there no
Ham. O, I die, Horatio!
Ham. O, but she'll keep her word.
Ham. O, horrible! O, horrible! most horrible!
Ham. O, reform it altogether! And let those that play your clowns
Ham. O, throw away the worser part of it,
Ham. Of him, sir.
Ham. Of nothing. Bring me to him. Hide fox, and all after.
Ham. On him, on him! Look you how pale he glares!
Ham. One.
Ham. Or like a whale.
Ham. Or of a courtier, which could say 'Good morrow, sweet lord!
Ham. Rest, rest, perturbed spirit! So, gentlemen,
Ham. Safely stow'd.
Ham. She well instructs me.
Ham. Sir, I cannot.
Ham. Sir, I lack advancement.
Ham. Sir, I will walk here in the hall. If it please his Majesty,
Ham. Sir, a whole history.
Ham. Sir, his definement suffers no perdition in you; though, I
Ham. Sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting
Ham. Slanders, sir; for the satirical rogue says here that old men
Ham. So be it!
Ham. So long? Nay then, let the devil wear black, for I'll have a
Ham. So much for this, sir; now shall you see the other.
Ham. So you must take your husbands.- Begin, murtherer. Pox, leave
Ham. Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounc'd it to you,
Ham. Speak. I am bound to hear.
Ham. Such an act
Ham. That I can keep your counsel, and not mine own. Besides, to be
Ham. That if you be honest and fair, your honesty should admit no
Ham. That is Laertes,
Ham. That skull had a tongue in it, and could sing once. How the
Ham. That you must teach me. But let me conjure you by the rights
Ham. That's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs.
Ham. That's two of his weapons- but well.
Ham. The King doth wake to-night and takes his rouse,
Ham. The air bites shrewdly; it is very cold.
Ham. The body is with the King, but the King is not with the body.
Ham. The concernancy, sir? Why do we wrap the gentleman in our more
Ham. The phrase would be more germane to the matter if we could
Ham. The point envenom'd too?
Ham. Then I would you were so honest a man.
Ham. Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs and outstretch'd
Ham. Then came each actor on his ass-
Ham. Then is doomsday near! But your news is not true. Let me
Ham. Then will I come to my mother by-and-by.- They fool me to the
Ham. Then you live about her waist, or in the middle of her
Ham. There's another. Why may not that be the skull of a lawyer?
Ham. There's letters seal'd; and my two schoolfellows,
Ham. There's neer a villain dwelling in all Denmark
Ham. These tedious old fools!
Ham. They are coming to the play. I must be idle.
Ham. They are sheep and calves which seek out assurance in that. I
Ham. This likes me well. These foils have all a length?
Ham. This?
Ham. Thou dost lie in't, to be in't and say it is thine. 'Tis for
Ham. Thou pray'st not well.
Ham. To be, or not to be- that is the question:
Ham. To this effect, sir, after what flourish your nature will.
Ham. To what base uses we may return, Horatio! Why may not
Ham. Two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats
Ham. Up from my cabin,
Ham. Upon my sword.
Ham. Upon the talk of the poisoning?
Ham. Upon what ground?
Ham. Very well, my lord.
Ham. Very well. Follow that lord- and look you mock him not.
Ham. We shall know by this fellow. The players cannot keep counsel;
Ham. We shall obey, were she ten times our mother. Have you any
Ham. We'll ha't to-morrow night. You could, for a need, study a
Ham. Well said, old mole! Canst work i' th' earth so fast?
Ham. Well, God-a-mercy.
Ham. What call you the carriages?
Ham. What did you enact?
Ham. What hour now?
Ham. What imports the nomination of this gentleman
Ham. What man dost thou dig it for?
Ham. What woman then?
Ham. What's his weapon?
Ham. What's the matter now?
Ham. What, are they children? Who maintains 'em? How are they
Ham. What, frighted with false fire?
Ham. What, ho, Horatio!
Ham. What, the fair Ophelia?
Ham. What?
Ham. Whither wilt thou lead me? Speak! I'll go no further.
Ham. Who commands them, sir?
Ham. Who is to be buried in't?
Ham. Who, I?
Ham. Whose was it?
Ham. Why did you laugh then, when I said 'Man delights not me'?
Ham. Why he more than another?
Ham. Why,
Ham. Why,
Ham. Why, I will fight with him upon this theme
Ham. Why, anything- but to th' purpose. You were sent for; and
Ham. Why, e'en so! and now my Lady Worm's, chapless, and knock'd
Ham. Why, even in that was heaven ordinant.
Ham. Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing you make of me! You
Ham. Why, look you there! Look how it steals away!
Ham. Why, man, they did make love to this employment!
Ham. Why, right! You are in the right!
Ham. Why, then 'tis none to you; for there is nothing either good
Ham. Why, then the Polack never will defend it.
Ham. Why, what should be the fear?
Ham. Why?
Ham. With drink, sir?
Ham. Words, words, words.
Ham. Yes, by Saint Patrick, but there is, Horatio,
Ham. You are welcome.
Ham. You cannot, sir, take from me anything that I will more
Ham. You should not have believ'd me; for virtue cannot so
Ham. Your wisdom should show itself more richer to signify this to
Ham. Yours, yours. [Exit Osric.] He does well to commend it
Ham. [aside to Horatio] Thy state is the more gracious; for 'tis a
Ham. [aside] Nay then, I have an eye of you.- If you love me, hold
Ham. [aside] Wormwood, wormwood!
Ham. [comes forward] What is he whose grief
Ham. [draws] How now? a rat? Dead for a ducat, dead!
Henry Percy, Earl of Northumberland.
Henry Percy, surnamed Hotspur, his son.
Henry, Prince of Wales, son to the King.
Hor [aside to Hamlet] Is't not possible to understand in another
Hor. 'Twere good she were spoken with; for she may strew
Hor. 'Twere to consider too curiously, to consider so.
Hor. (reads the letter) 'Horatio, when thou shalt have overlook'd
Hor. (within) My lord, my lord!
Hor. Ay, good my lord.
Hor. Ay, my lord, And of calveskins too.
Hor. Ay, my lord.
Hor. Be rul'd. You shall not go.
Hor. Custom hath made it in him a Property of easiness.
Hor. Do not, my lord!
Hor. E'en so, my lord.
Hor. E'en so.
Hor. Good my lord, be quiet.
Hor. Good my lord, tell it.
Hor. Half a share.
Hor. Have after. To what issue wail this come?
Hor. He waxes desperate with imagination.
Hor. Heaven secure him!
Hor. Heaven will direct it.
Hor. Here, sweet lord, at your service.
Hor. How was this seal'd?
Hor. I beseech you.
Hor. I did very well note him.
Hor. I think it lacks of twelve.
Hor. If your mind dislike anything, obey it. I will forestall their
Hor. In faith,
Hor. Indeed? I heard it not. It then draws near the season
Hor. Is it a custom?
Hor. Is't possible?
Hor. It beckons you to go away with it,
Hor. It is a nipping and an eager air.
Hor. It might, my lord.
Hor. It must be shortly known to him from England
Hor. Let him bless thee too.
Hor. Let them come in.
Hor. Look, my lord, it comes!
Hor. Nay, good my lord -
Hor. Never believe it.
Hor. No, by no means!
Hor. Not I, my lord, by heaven!
Hor. Not a jot more, my lord.
Hor. Not from his mouth,
Hor. Now cracks a noble heart. Good night, sweet prince,
Hor. O day and night, but this is wondrous strange!
Hor. O, my dear lord!
Hor. Of that I shall have also cause to speak,
Hor. Peace! Who comes here?
Hor. Propose the oath, my lord.
Hor. Remember it, my lord!
Hor. So Guildenstern and Rosencrantz go to't.
Hor. That is most certain.
Hor. There needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave
Hor. There's no offence, my lord.
Hor. These are but wild and whirling words, my lord.
Hor. They bleed on both sides. How is it, my lord?
Hor. This lapwing runs away with the shell on his head.
Hor. Very well, my lord.
Hor. Well, my lord.
Hor. What are they that would speak with me?
Hor. What if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord,
Hor. What is it you will see?
Hor. What is't, my lord? We will.
Hor. What news, my lord?
Hor. What's that, my lord?
Hor. Why, what a king is this!
Hor. You might have rhym'd.
Hor. You will lose this wager, my lord.
Hor. [aside to Hamlet] I knew you must be edified by the margent
Hor. [aside to Hamlet] No, my good lord.
Hor. [aside] His purse is empty already. All's golden words are
Host. An old man.
Host. Good my lord, hear me.
Host. He? Alas, he is poor; he hath nothing.
Host. I am no thing to thank God on, I would thou shouldst know it!
Host. Marry, my lord, there is a nobleman of the court at door
Host. My lord, I pray you hear me.
Host. Nay, my lord, he call'd you Jack and said he would cudgel
Host. No, Sir John; you do not know me, Sir John. I know you, Sir
Host. Now, as I am a true woman, holland of eight shillings an ell.
Host. O Jesu, I have heard the Prince tell him, I know not how oft,
Host. O Jesu, he doth it as like one of these harlotry players as
Host. O Jesu, my lord the Prince!
Host. O Jesu, my lord, my lord!
Host. O Jesu, this is excellent sport, i' faith!
Host. O, the Father, how he holds his countenance!
Host. Say, what beast, thou knave, thou?
Host. Say, what thing? what thing?
Host. So I told him, my lord, and I said I heard your Grace say so;
Host. So he doth you, my lord, and said this other day you ought
Host. The sheriff and all the watch are at the door. They are come
Host. There's neither faith, truth, nor womanhood in me else.
Host. Thou art an unjust man in saying so. Thou or any man knows
Host. Who, I? No; I defy thee! God's light, I was never call'd so
Host. Why, Sir John, what do you think, Sir John? Do you think I
Hot. 'But, for mine own part, my lord, I could be well contented to
Hot. 'Tis the next way to turn tailor or be redbreast-teacher. An
Hot. A perilous gash, a very limb lopp'd off.
Hot. A rendezvous, a home to fly unto,
Hot. All studies here I solemnly defy
Hot. An if the devil come and roar for them,
Hot. And I can teach thee, coz, to shame the devil-
Hot. And I say the earth was not of my mind,
Hot. And may be so we shall.
Hot. And you in hell, as oft as he hears
Hot. Away.
Hot. But soft, I pray you. Did King Richard then
Hot. By heaven, methinks it were an easy leap
Hot. Come, Kate, thou art perfect in lying down. Come, quick,
Hot. Come, wilt thou see me ride?
Hot. Cousin, I think thou art enamoured
Hot. Did you beg any, God forbid!
Hot. Do so, and 'tis well.-
Hot. Forty let it be.
Hot. Hath Butler brought those horses from the sheriff?
Hot. He does, he does! We'll be reveng'd on him.
Hot. He shall be welcome too. Where is his son,
Hot. He will (forsooth) have all my prisoners;
Hot. His is certain, ours 's doubtful.
Hot. Home without boots, and in foul weather too?
Hot. I can no longer brook thy vanities.
Hot. I cannot choose. Sometimes he angers me
Hot. I cannot read them now.-
Hot. I cry you mercy.
Hot. I do not care. I'll give thrice so much land
Hot. I had rather hear Lady, my brach, howl in Irish.
Hot. I have done, i' faith.
Hot. I smell it. Upon my life, it will do well.
Hot. I thank him that he cuts me from my tale,
Hot. I think there's no man speaks better Welsh. I'll to dinner.
Hot. I'll have it so. A little charge will do it.
Hot. I'll keep them all.
Hot. If I mistake not, thou art Harry Monmouth.
Hot. If he fall in, good night, or sink or swim!
Hot. In faith, it is exceedingly well aim'd.
Hot. Let me not understand you then; speak it in Welsh.
Hot. Letters from him? Why comes he not himself?
Hot. Lord Douglas, go you and tell him so.
Hot. Lord Mortimer, and cousin Glendower,
Hot. Marry,
Hot. Methinks my moiety, north from Burton here,
Hot. My cousin Vernon! welcome, by my soul.
Hot. My liege, I did deny no prisoners.
Hot. My name is Harry Percy.
Hot. My uncle is return'd.
Hot. Nay, I will! That is flat!
Hot. Nay, then I cannot blame his cousin king,
Hot. Neither! 'Tis a woman's fault.
Hot. No harm. What more?
Hot. No more, no more! Worse than the sun in March,
Hot. No.
Hot. Nor shall it, Harry; for the hour is come
Hot. Not an inch further. But hark you, Kate:
Hot. Not so, Sir Walter. We'll withdraw awhile.
Hot. Not yours, in good sooth? Heart! you swear like a
Hot. Now I perceive the devil understands Welsh;
Hot. O Douglas, hadst thou fought at Holmedon thus,
Hot. O Harry, thou hast robb'd me of my youth!
Hot. O, then the earth shook to see the heavens on fire,
Hot. O, would the quarrel lay upon our heads,
Hot. Of York, is it not?
Hot. Peace! she sings.
Hot. Revolted Mortimer?
Hot. Sick now? droop now? This sickness doth infect
Hot. So are the horses of the enemy,
Hot. So far afoot, I shall be weary, love.
Hot. Speak of Mortimer?
Hot. That roan shall be my throne.
Hot. The King hath many marching in his coats.
Hot. The King is kind; and well we know the King
Hot. Then to the point.
Hot. This, Douglas? No. I know this face full well.
Hot. To the Welsh lady's bed.
Hot. To-night, say I.
Hot. Uncle, adieu. O, let the hours be short
Hot. Up and away!
Hot. We'll fight with him to-night.
Hot. Welcome, Sir Walter Blunt, and would to God
Hot. Well said, my noble Scot. If speaking truth
Hot. Well, I am school'd. Good manners be your speed!
Hot. What horse? A roan, a crop-ear, is it not?
Hot. What may the King's whole battle reach unto?
Hot. What say'st thou, my lady?
Hot. What, ho!
Hot. Where?
Hot. Who shall say me nay?
Hot. Why say you so? Looks he no for supply?
Hot. Why, it cannot choose but be a noble plot.
Hot. Why, look you, I am whipp'd and scourg'd with rods,
Hot. Why, my horse, my love- my horse!
Hot. Why, so can I, or so can any man;
Hot. Why, so it would have done at the same season, if your
Hot. Will not you?
Hot. You say true.
Hot. You strain too far.
Hot. Zounds! how has he the leisure to be sick
John. But, soft! whom have we here?
John. I thank your Grace for this high courtesy,
John. Not I, my lord, unless I did bleed too.
John. This is the strangest tale that ever I beard.
John. We breathe too long. Come, cousin Westmoreland,
KING HENRY THE FOURTH
King Henry the Fourth.
King. 'Tis Hamlet's character. 'Naked!'
King. A Norman.
King. A hundred thousand rebels die in this!
King. A very riband in the cap of youth-
King. Alas, alas!
King. And can you by no drift of circumstance
King. And, Prince of Wales, so dare we venture thee,
King. Arm you, I pray you, to th', speedy voyage;
King. As of a man faithful and honourable.
King. At supper? Where?
King. Ay, Hamlet.
King. Bear Worcester to the death, and Vernon too;
King. Break not your sleeps for that. You must not think
King. Bring him before us.
King. But I have sent for him to answer this;
King. But how hath she
King. But where is he?
King. Come, Hamlet, come, and take this hand from me.
King. Conceit upon her father.
King. Dead.
King. Do you think 'tis this?
King. Follow her close; give her good watch, I pray you.
King. Follow him at foot; tempt him with speed aboard.
King. For all the world,
King. From Hamlet? Who brought them?
King. Gertrude, do not drink.
King. Give me some light! Away!
King. Give them the foils, young Osric. Cousin Hamlet,
King. Go seek him there. [To Attendants.]
King. God pardon thee! Yet let me wonder, Harry,
King. Good Laertes,
King. Hamlet, this deed, for thine especial safety,-
King. Have you heard the argument? Is there no offence in't?
King. He made confession of you;
King. Hence, therefore, every leader to his charge;
King. Here is a dear, a true-industrious friend,
King. How bloodily the sun begins to peer
King. How do you, pretty lady?
King. How fares our cousin Hamlet?
King. How long hath she been thus?
King. How may we try it further?
King. I do not fear it, I have seen you both;
King. I do not think't.
King. I have nothing with this answer, Hamlet. These words are not
King. I have sent to seek him and to find the body.
King. I like him not, nor stands it safe with us
King. I pray thee, good Horatio, wait upon him.
King. I prithee,
King. I saw him hold Lord Percy at the point
King. I will do so.
King. If it be so, Laertes
King. It falls right.
King. It likes us well;
King. It seems then that the tidings of this broil
King. It shall be so.
King. Laertes, I must commune with your grief,
King. Laertes, was your father dear to you?
King. Laertes, you shall hear them.
King. Let him demand his fill.
King. Let's follow, Gertrude.
King. Let's further think of this,
King. Lords, give us leave. The Prince of Wales and I
King. Love? his affections do not that way tend;
King. Make up to Clifton; I'll to Sir Nicholas Gawsey.
King. My blood hath been too cold and temperate,
King. No place indeed should murther sanctuarize;
King. Not that I know.
King. Not that I think you did not love your father;
King. Now must your conscience my acquittance seal,
King. Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius?
King. O Gertrude, come away!
King. O heavy deed!
King. O, for two special reasons,
King. O, he is mad, Laertes.
King. O, speak of that! That do I long to hear.
King. O, yet defend me, friends! I am but hurt.
King. Our son shall win.
King. Part them! They are incens'd.
King. Pluck thein asunder.
King. Pretty Ophelia!
King. Set me the stoups of wine upon that table.
King. She sounds to see them bleed.
King. So is it, if thou knew'st our purposes.
King. So shaken as we are, so wan with care,
King. So you shall;
King. Stay and breathe awhile.
King. Stay, give me drink. Hamlet, this pearl is thine;
King. Sweet Gertrude, leave us too;
King. Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern.
King. Thanks, dear my lord.
King. The Earl of Westmoreland set forth to-day;
King. The King himself, who, Douglas, grieves at heart
King. The doors are broke.
King. The very same.
King. Theft with the losers let it sympathize,
King. Then this remains, that we divide our power.
King. There's matter in these sighs. These profound heaves
King. These things, indeed, you have articulate,
King. Thou dost belie him, Percy, thou dost belie him!
King. Thou still hast been the father of good news.
King. Thus ever did rebellion find rebuke.
King. Thy loving father, Hamlet.
King. Thyself do grace to them, and bring them in.
King. To thine own peace. If he be now return'd
King. We will try it.
King. Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
King. Well, we shall sift him.
King. What do you call the play?
King. What dost thou mean by this?
King. What is the cause, Laertes,
King. What, Gertrude? How does Hamlet?
King. Where are my Switzers? Let them guard the door.
King. Where is Polonius?
King. Who shall stay you?
King. Why, now You speak
King. Why, yet he doth deny his prisoners,
King. Will you know them then?
King. With all my heart, and it doth much content me
King. With all my heart.
King. Worcester, get thee gone; for I do see
King. Yea, there thou mak'st me sad, and mak'st me sin
King. You have not sought it! How comes it then,
King. [aside] It is the poison'd cup; it is too late.
King. [aside] O, 'tis too true!
King. [rises] My words fly up, my thoughts remain below.
LADY NORTHUMBERLAND
LADY PERCY, Percy's widow
LORD BARDOLPH
LORD BARDOLPH. Here comes the Earl.                Exit PORTER
LORD BARDOLPH. Noble Earl,
LORD BARDOLPH. Tell thou the Earl
LORD BARDOLPH. Who keeps the gate here, ho?
LORD CHIEF JUSTICE
LORD HASTINGS
LORD MOWBRAY
LORDS, Attendants, Porter, Drawers, Beadles, Grooms, Servants,
Lady Mortimer, daughter to Glendower, and wife to Mortimer.
Lady P. Go, ye giddy goose.
Lady P. I will not sing.
Lady P. Not mine, in good sooth.
Lady P. Now God help thee!
Lady P. Then be still.
Lady P. Then should you be nothing but musical; for you are
Lady P. What's that?
Lady P. Wouldst thou have thy head broken?
Lady Percy, wife to Hotspur, and sister to Mortimer.
Lady. But hear you, my lord.
Lady. Come, come, you paraquito, answer me
Lady. Do you not love me? do you not indeed?
Lady. How? so far?
Lady. It must of force.                                Exeunt.
Lady. O my good lord, why are you thus alone?
Lady. Out, you mad-headed ape!
Lady. What is it carries you away?
Laer. A Norman was't?
Laer. A document in madness! Thoughts and remembrance fitted.
Laer. A touch, a touch; I do confess't.
Laer. Alas, then she is drown'd?
Laer. And so have I a noble father lost;
Laer. Ay my lord,
Laer. Come, my lord.                                They play.
Laer. Come, one for me.
Laer. Do you see this, O God?
Laer. Drown'd! O, where?
Laer. Farewell, Ophelia, and remember well
Laer. Farewell.                                          Exit.
Laer. Hadst thou thy wits, and didst persuade revenge,
Laer. Have at you now!
Laer. He is justly serv'd.
Laer. How came he dead? I'll not be juggled with:
Laer. How now? What noise is that?
Laer. I am lost in it, my lord. But let him come!
Laer. I am satisfied in nature,
Laer. I know him well. He is the broach indeed
Laer. I pray you give me leave.
Laer. I thank you. Keep the door.      [Exeunt his Followers.]
Laer. I will do't!
Laer. It is here, Hamlet. Hamlet, thou art slain;
Laer. It well appears. But tell me
Laer. Know you the hand?
Laer. Lay her i' th' earth;
Laer. Let this be so.
Laer. Most humbly do I take my leave, my lord.
Laer. Must there no more be done?
Laer. My lord, I will be rul'd;
Laer. My lord, I'll hit him now.
Laer. My will, not all the world!
Laer. No.
Laer. None but his enemies.
Laer. O, treble woe
Laer. Say you so? Come on.                               Play.
Laer. That drop of blood that's calm proclaims me bastard;
Laer. The devil take thy soul!
Laer. This is too heavy; let me see another.
Laer. This nothing's more than matter.
Laer. Thought and affliction, passion, hell itself,
Laer. To cut his throat i' th' church!
Laer. To his good friends thus wide I'll ope my arms
Laer. Too much of water hast thou, poor Ophelia,
Laer. Upon my life, Lamound.
Laer. Well, again!
Laer. What ceremony else?
Laer. What ceremony else?
Laer. What out of this, my lord?
Laer. What part is that, my lord?
Laer. Where is my father?
Laer. Where is this king?- Sirs, staid you all without.
Laer. Why ask you this?
Laer. Why, as a woodcock to mine own springe, Osric.
Laer. You mock me, sir.
Laer. [aside] And yet it is almost against my conscience.
Lord. My lord, his Majesty commended him to you by young Osric, who
Lord. The King and Queen and all are coming down.
Lord. The Queen desires you to use some gentle entertainment to
Lords, Officers, Sheriff, Vintner, Chamberlain, Drawers, two
Mar. How is't, my noble lord?
Mar. Illo, ho, ho, my lord!
Mar. Let's follow. 'Tis not fit thus to obey him.
Mar. Look with what courteous action
Mar. Lord Hamlet!
Mar. Nay, let's follow him.
Mar. No, it is struck.
Mar. Nor I, my lord- in faith.
Mar. Nor I, my lord.
Mar. O, wonderful!
Mar. Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.
Mar. We have sworn, my lord, already.
Mar. You shall not go, my lord.
Mess. He cannot come, my lord; he is grievous sick.
Mess. He did, my lord, four days ere I set forth,
Mess. His letters bears his mind, not I, my lord.
Mess. Letters, my lord, from Hamlet:
Mess. My lord, here are letters for you.
Mess. My lord, prepare. The King comes on apace.
Mess. Sailors, my lord, they say; I saw them not.
Mess. Save Yourself, my lord:
Messenger. These letters come from your father.
Mistress Quickly, hostess of the Boar's Head in Eastcheap.
Mort. Come, come, no more of this unprofitable chat.
Mort. Fie, cousin Percy! how you cross my father!
Mort. Good father, tell her that she and my aunt Percy
Mort. I understand thy looks. That pretty Welsh
Mort. In faith, he is a worthy gentleman,
Mort. O, I am ignorance itself in this!
Mort. Peace, cousin Percy; you will make him mad.
Mort. The Archdeacon hath divided it
Mort. These promises are fair, the parties sure,
Mort. This is the deadly spite that angers me-
Mort. With all my heart I'll sit and hear her sing.
Mort. With all my heart.
Mort. Yea, but
NORTHUMBERLAND. Good, an God will!
NORTHUMBERLAND. What news, Lord Bardolph? Every minute now
North. At Berkeley Castle.
North. Before the game is afoot thou still let'st slip.
North. Brother, the King hath made your nephew mad.
North. Farewell, good brother. We shall thrive, I trust.
North. He did; myself did hear it.
North. He was; I heard the proclamation.
North. Imagination of some great exploit
North. My lord-
North. What, drunk with choler? Stay, and pause awhile.
North. Why, what a wasp-stung and impatient fool
North. Yea, my good lord.
Oph. 'Tis brief, my lord.
Oph. 'Tis in my memory lock'd,
Oph. (Sings)
Oph. (sings)
Oph. (sings)
Oph. (sings)
Oph. And hath given countenance to his speech, my lord,
Oph. At home, my lord.
Oph. Ay, my lord.
Oph. Ay, my lord.
Oph. Belike this show imports the argument of the play.
Oph. Could beauty, my lord, have better commerce than with honesty?
Oph. Good my lord,
Oph. He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders
Oph. He took me by the wrist and held me hard;
Oph. I do not know, my lord, what I should think,
Oph. I hope all will be well. We must be patient; but I cannot
Oph. I shall obey, my lord.
Oph. I think nothing, my lord.
Oph. I was the more deceived.
Oph. Indeed, la, without an oath, I'll make an end on't!
Oph. Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.
Oph. Madam, I wish it may.
Oph. My honour'd lord, you know right well you did,
Oph. My lord, I do not know,
Oph. My lord, I have remembrances of yours
Oph. My lord, as I was sewing in my closet,
Oph. My lord, he hath importun'd me with love
Oph. My lord?
Oph. Nay 'tis twice two months, my lord.
Oph. No, my good lord; but, as you did command,
Oph. No, my lord.
Oph. O heavenly powers, restore him!
Oph. O my lord, my lord, I have been so affrighted!
Oph. O, help him, you sweet heavens!
Oph. O, what a noble mind is here o'erthrown!
Oph. Pray let's have no words of this; but when they ask, you what
Oph. Pray you mark.
Oph. Say you? Nay, pray You mark.
Oph. So please you, something touching the Lord Hamlet.
Oph. Still better, and worse.
Oph. The King rises.
Oph. There's fennel for you, and columbines. There's rue for you,
Oph. There's rosemary, that's for remembrance. Pray you, love,
Oph. Well, God dild you! They say the owl was a baker's daughter.
Oph. What is, my lord?
Oph. What means this, my lord?
Oph. What means your lordship?
Oph. Where is the beauteous Majesty of Denmark?
Oph. Will he tell us what this show meant?
Oph. You are as good as a chorus, my lord.
Oph. You are keen, my lord, you are keen.
Oph. You are merry, my lord.
Oph. You are naught, you are naught! I'll mark the play.
Oph. You must sing 'A-down a-down, and you call him a-down-a.' O,
Osr. A hit, a very palpable hit.
Osr. Ay, my good lord.
Osr. Exceedingly, my lord; it is very sultry, as 'twere- I cannot
Osr. How is't, Laertes?
Osr. I commend my duty to your lordship.
Osr. I know you are not ignorant-
Osr. I mean, my lord, the opposition of your person in trial.
Osr. I mean, sir, for his weapon; but in the imputation laid on him
Osr. I thank your lordship, it is very hot.
Osr. It is indifferent cold, my lord, indeed.
Osr. Look to the Queen there, ho!
Osr. Nay, good my lord; for mine ease, in good faith. Sir, here is
Osr. Nothing neither way.
Osr. Of Laertes?
Osr. Rapier and dagger.
Osr. Shall I redeliver you e'en so?
Osr. Sir?
Osr. Sweet lord, if your lordship were at leisure, I should impart
Osr. The King, sir, hath laid that, in a dozen passes between
Osr. The King, sir, hath wager'd with him six Barbary horses;
Osr. The carriages, sir, are the hangers.
Osr. You are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is-
Osr. Young Fortinbras, with conquest come from Poland,
Osr. Your lordship is right welcome back to Denmark.
Osr. Your lordship speaks most infallibly of him.
Ost. [within] Anon, anon.
Other. But is this law?
Other. Go to!
Other. I tell thee she is; therefore make her grave straight.
Other. Marry, now I can tell!
Other. Mass, I cannot tell.
Other. Nay, but hear you, Goodman Delver!
Other. The gallows-maker; for that frame outlives a thousand
Other. Was he a gentleman?
Other. Who builds stronger than a mason, a shipwright, or a
Other. Why, 'tis found so.
Other. Why, he had none.
Other. Will you ha' the truth an't? If this had not been a
Owen Glendower.
PAGE, to Falstaff
PETER BULLCALF
PETO
PISTOL
PORTER. His lordship is walk'd forth into the orchard.
PORTER. What shall I say you are?
PRINCE HUMPHREY OF GLOUCESTER
PRINCE JOHN OF LANCASTER
Peto.
Peto. Falstaff! Fast asleep behind the arras, and snorting like a
Peto. Good morrow, good my lord.
Peto. How many be there of them?
Peto. No, no, they were not bound.
Peto. Nothing but papers, my lord.
Peto. Why, he hack'd it with his dagger, and said he would swear
Peto. [reads] 'Item. A capon. . . . . . . . . . . . .  ii s. ii d.
Player. I hope we have reform'd that indifferently with us, sir.
Player. I warrant your honour.
Poins.
Poins. As merry as crickets, my lad. But hark ye; what cunning
Poins. Ay, ay, he said four.
Poins. Ay, four, in buckram suits.
Poins. But, my lads, my lads, to-morrow morning, by four o'clock
Poins. Come, let's hear, Jack. What trick hast thou now?
Poins. Come, shelter, shelter! I have remov'd Falstaff's horse, and
Poins. Come, your reason, Jack, your reason.
Poins. Down fell their hose.
Poins. Farewell, my lord.                                Exit.
Poins. Francis!
Poins. Francis!                                  [Exit Poins.]
Poins. Good morrow, sweet Hal. What says Monsieur Remorse? What
Poins. How the rogue roar'd!                           Exeunt.
Poins. Mark, Jack.
Poins. Now, my good sweet honey lord, ride with us to-morrow. I
Poins. O, Glendower.
Poins. Sir John, I prithee, leave the Prince and me alone. I will
Poins. Sirrah Jack, thy horse stands behind the hedge. When thou
Poins. Stand close! I hear them coming.
Poins. Then art thou damn'd for keeping thy word with the devil.
Poins. Tut! our horses they shall not see- I'll tie them in the
Poins. Villains!
Poins. Welcome, Jack. Where hast thou been?
Poins. Well, for two of them, I know them to be as true-bred
Poins. Where hast been, Hal?
Poins. Why, we will set forth before or after them and appoint them
Poins. You will, chops?
Poins. Zounds, ye fat paunch, an ye call me coward, by the
Poins. [aside to Prince] Here, hard by. Stand close.
Poins. [comes fortward] O, 'tis our setter. I know his voice.
Poins. [within] Anon, anon, sir.
Poins. [within] Francis!
Poins. [within] Francis!
Poins. [within] Francis!
Poins. [within] Francis!
Poins. [within] Francis!
Pol. 'And in part him, but,' you may say, 'not well.
Pol. 'Tis most true;
Pol. Affection? Pooh! You speak like a green girl,
Pol. And let him ply his music.
Pol. And the Queen too, and that presently.
Pol. And then, sir, does 'a this- 'a does- What was I about to say?
Pol. At 'closes in the consequence'- Ay, marry!
Pol. At such a time I'll loose my daughter to him.
Pol. Away, I do beseech you, both away
Pol. Ay, fashion you may call it. Go to, go to!
Pol. Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, quarrelling,
Pol. Ay, springes to catch woodcocks! I do know,
Pol. By th' mass, and 'tis like a camel indeed.
Pol. Come, go with me. I will go seek the King.
Pol. Come, sirs.
Pol. Do you know me, my lord?
Pol. Faith, no, as you may season it in the charge.
Pol. Fare you well, my lord.
Pol. Farewell!
Pol. Fore God, my lord, well spoken, with good accent and good
Pol. Give first admittance to th' ambassadors.
Pol. Give him this money and these notes, Reynaldo.
Pol. Give o'er the play.
Pol. God b' wi' ye, fare ye well!
Pol. Good madam, stay awhile. I will be faithful.     [Reads.]
Pol. Hath there been such a time- I would fain know that-
Pol. Have I, my lord? Assure you, my good liege,
Pol. He will come straight. Look you lay home to him.
Pol. Honest, my lord?
Pol. I did enact Julius Caesar; I was kill'd i' th' Capitol; Brutus
Pol. I have, my lord.
Pol. I hear him coming. Let's withdraw, my lord.
Pol. I mean, the matter that you read, my lord.
Pol. I will say so.                                      Exit.
Pol. I would fain prove so. But what might you think,
Pol. If you call me Jephthah, my lord, I have a daughter that I
Pol. Indeed, that is out o' th' air. [Aside] How pregnant sometimes
Pol. It is back'd like a weasel.
Pol. It shall do well. But yet do I believe
Pol. Look, whe'r he has not turn'd his colour, and has tears in's
Pol. Mad for thy love?
Pol. Madam, I swear I use no art at all.
Pol. Marry, I will teach you! Think yourself a baby
Pol. Marry, sir, here's my drift,
Pol. Marry, well bethought!
Pol. Marry, well said, very well said. Look you, sir,
Pol. My lord, I have news to tell you.
Pol. My lord, I will use them according to their desert.
Pol. My lord, he's going to his mother's closet.
Pol. My lord, the Queen would speak with you, and presently.
Pol. Not I, my lord.
Pol. Observe his inclination in yourself.
Pol. Ophelia, walk you here.- Gracious, so please you,
Pol. Th' ambassadors from Norway, my good lord,
Pol. That did I, my lord, and was accounted a good actor.
Pol. That hath made him mad.
Pol. That's good! 'Mobled queen' is good.
Pol. That's very true, my lord.
Pol. The actors are come hither, my lord.
Pol. The best actors in the world, either for tragedy, comedy,
Pol. The time invites you. Go, your servants tend.
Pol. This business is well ended.
Pol. This is too long.
Pol. Upon my honour-
Pol. Very like a whale.
Pol. Well be with you, gentlemen!
Pol. What do you think of me?
Pol. What follows then, my lord?
Pol. What is the matter, my lord?
Pol. What is't, Ophelia, he hath said to you?
Pol. What said he?
Pol. What treasure had he, my lord?
Pol. Wherefore should you do this?
Pol. With what, i' th' name of God I
Pol. You go to seek the Lord Hamlet. There he is.
Pol. You know sometimes he walks four hours together
Pol. You shall do marvell's wisely, good Reynaldo,
Pol. [aside] How say you by that? Still harping on my daughter. Yet
Pol. [aside] Still on my daughter.
Pol. [aside] Though this be madness, yet there is a method in't.-
Pol. [behind] O, I am slain!
Pol. [behind] What, ho! help, help, help!
Pol. [points to his head and shoulder] Take this from this, if this
Pol. [to the King] O, ho! do you mark that?
Priest. Her obsequies have been as far enlarg'd
Priest. No more be done.
Prince John of Lancaster, son to the King.
Prince. A trifle, some eightpenny matter.
Prince. An otter, Sir John? Why an otter?
Prince. And thou a natural coward without instinct.
Prince. And why not as the lion?
Prince. Anon, Francis? No, Francis; but to-morrow, Francis; or,
Prince. As the honey of Hybla, my old lad of the castle- and is not
Prince. Away, you rogue! Dost thou not hear them call?
Prince. Ay, and mark thee too, Jack.
Prince. Bardolph!
Prince. By God, thou hast deceiv'd me, Lancaster!
Prince. Call in the sheriff.
Prince. Come hither, Francis.
Prince. Come, brother John; full bravely hast thou flesh'd
Prince. Content- and the argument shall be thy running away.
Prince. Did I ever call for thee to pay thy part?
Prince. Didst thou never see Titan kiss a dish of butter?
Prince. Do not think so. You shall not find it so.
Prince. Do thou stand for my father and examine me upon the
Prince. Dost thou speak like a king? Do thou stand for me, and I'll
Prince. Else he had been damn'd for cozening the devil.
Prince. Farewell, thou latter spring! farewell, All-hallown summer!
Prince. Five year! by'r Lady, a long lease for the clinking of
Prince. For obtaining of suits?
Prince. For worms, brave Percy. Fare thee well, great heart!
Prince. Give him as much as will make him a royal man, and send him
Prince. Give it me. What, is it in the case?
Prince. Go bear this letter to Lord John of Lancaster,
Prince. Go hide thee behind the arras. The rest walk, up above.
Prince. Good morrow, Ned.
Prince. Got with much ease. Now merrily to horse.
Prince. Hark how hard he fetches breath. Search his pockets.
Prince. He is indeed, and living to kill thee.
Prince. He is walk'd up to the top of the hill. I'll go seek him.
Prince. He that rides at high speed and with his pistol kills a
Prince. Heigh, heigh, the devil rides upon a fiddlestick!
Prince. Hold up thy head, vile Scot, or thou art like
Prince. Hot livers and cold purses.
Prince. How long hast thou to serve, Francis?
Prince. How now, blown Jack? How now, quilt?
Prince. How now, my lady the hostess? What say'st thou to me?
Prince. How now, woolsack? What mutter you?
Prince. How old art thou, Francis?
Prince. How shall we part with them in setting forth?
Prince. I am good friends with my father, and may do anything.
Prince. I am now of all humours that have showed themselves humours
Prince. I care not.
Prince. I comes forward I Peace, ye fat-kidney'd rascal! What a
Prince. I did never see such pitiful rascals.
Prince. I did; I saw him dead,
Prince. I do beseech your Majesty make up,
Prince. I do, I will.                      [A knocking heard.]
Prince. I do.
Prince. I have procured thee, Jack, a charge of foot.
Prince. I know thou dost.
Prince. I know you all, and will awhile uphold
Prince. I say, 'tis copper. Darest thou be as good as thy word now?
Prince. I see a good amendment of life in thee- from praying to
Prince. I shall hereafter, my thrice-gracious lord,
Prince. I think it is good morrow, is it not?
Prince. I think, to steal cream indeed, for thy theft hath already
Prince. I will give thee for it a thousand pound. Ask me when thou
Prince. I'll be no longer guilty, of this sin; this sanguine
Prince. I'll make it greater ere I part from thee,
Prince. In both our armies there is many a soul
Prince. It appears so by the story.
Prince. It may be so. If he have robb'd these men,
Prince. It will not be accepted, on my life.
Prince. Lead me, my lord, I do not need your help;
Prince. Let them alone awhile, and then open the door.
Prince. Let's see whit they be. Read them.
Prince. Nay, but hark you, Francis. For the sugar thou gavest me-
Prince. Ned, prithee come out of that fat-room and lend me thy hand
Prince. No, I'll be sworn, unless you call three fingers on the
Prince. No, if rightly taken, halter.
Prince. No; thou shalt.
Prince. Not a whit, i' faith. I lack some of thy instinct.
Prince. Nothing but a Colossus can do thee that friendship.
Prince. Now, Harry, whence come you?
Prince. Now, sirs. By'r Lady, you fought fair; so did you, Peto; so
Prince. O God! they did me too much injury
Prince. O monstrous! Eleven buckram men grown out of two!
Prince. O monstrous! but one halfpennyworth of bread to this
Prince. O my sweet beef, I must still be good angel to thee.
Prince. O villain! thou stolest a cup of sack eighteen years ago
Prince. O villain! thy lips are scarce wip'd since thou drunk'st
Prince. O, if it should, how would thy guts fall about thy knees!
Prince. O, this boy
Prince. Or an old lion, or a lover's lute.
Prince. Out, ye rogue! Shall I be your ostler?
Prince. Peace, chewet, peace!
Prince. Pray God you have not murd'red some of them.
Prince. Prithee do, Jack.
Prince. Seven? Why, there were but four even now.
Prince. Sir John stands to his word, the devil shall have his
Prince. Sirrah, Falstaff and the rest of the thieves are at the
Prince. Sirrah, do I owe you a thousand pound?
Prince. Sirs, you four shall front them in the narrow lane; Ned
Prince. So did he never the sparrow.
Prince. So please your Majesty, I would I could
Prince. So, two more already.
Prince. Speak, sirs. How was it?
Prince. Stand close.                        [They step aside.]
Prince. Swearest thou, ungracious boy? Henceforth ne'er look on me.
Prince. Tell me now in earnest, how came Falstaff's sword so
Prince. That ever this fellow should have fewer words than a
Prince. That villanous abominable misleader of youth, Falstaff,
Prince. The complaints I hear of thee are grievous.
Prince. The man, I do assure you, is not here,
Prince. The noble Scot, Lord Douglas, when he saw
Prince. The southern wind
Prince. The thieves have bound the true men. Now could thou and I
Prince. Then brother John of Lancaster, to you
Prince. These lies are like their father that begets them- gross as
Prince. This is the strangest fellow, brother John.
Prince. This oily rascal is known as well as Paul's. Go call him
Prince. Thou art perfect.
Prince. Thou art so fat-witted with drinking of old sack, and
Prince. Thou didst well; for wisdom cries out in the streets, and
Prince. Thou judgest false already. I mean, thou shalt have the
Prince. Thou liest; thou art not colted, thou art uncolted.
Prince. Thou say'st true, hostess, and he slanders thee most
Prince. Thou sayest well, and it holds well too; for the fortune of
Prince. Thou speak'st as if I would deny my name.
Prince. Thy state is taken for a join'd-stool, thy golden sceptre
Prince. We two saw you four set on four, and bound them and were
Prince. Well then, once in my days I'll be a madcap.
Prince. Well, I'll go with thee. Provide us all things necessary
Prince. Well, breathe awhile, and then to it again; and when thou
Prince. Well, come what will, I'll tarry at home.
Prince. Well, here I am set.
Prince. Well, here is my leg.
Prince. Well, how then? Come, roundly, roundly.
Prince. Well, we leave that to the proof.
Prince. What didst thou lose, Jack?
Prince. What manner of man, an it like your Majesty?
Prince. What men?
Prince. What say'st thou, Jack?
Prince. What say'st thou, Mistress Quickly? How doth thy husband?
Prince. What sayest thou to a hare, or the melancholy of Moor
Prince. What! he did not?
Prince. What's the matter?
Prince. What, a coward, Sir John Paunch?
Prince. What, a hundred, man?
Prince. What, fought you with them all?
Prince. What, four? Thou saidst but two even now.
Prince. What, none?
Prince. What, stand'st thou idle here? Lend me thy sword.
Prince. Where is it, Jack? Where is it?
Prince. Where shall we take a purse tomorrow, Jack?
Prince. Who, I rob? I a thief? Not I, by my faith.
Prince. Why then, it is like, if there come a hot June, and this
Prince. Why then, your brown bastard is your only drink; for look
Prince. Why, Percy I kill'd myself, and saw thee dead!
Prince. Why, how couldst thou know these men in Kendal green when
Prince. Why, then I see
Prince. Why, thou owest God a death.
Prince. Why, what a pox have I to do with my hostess of the tavern?
Prince. Why, what a rascal art thou then, to praise him so for
Prince. Why, you whoreson round man, what's the matter?
Prince. Wilt thou rob this leathern-jerkin, crystal-button,
Prince. Yea, and elsewhere, so far as my coin would stretch; and
Prince. Yea, but 'tis like that they will know us by our horses, by
Prince. Yea, but I doubt they will be too hard for us.
Prince. Yes, Jack, upon instinct.
Prince. Your money!
Prince. [aside to Poins] Ned, where are our disguises?
Prince. [aside to Poins] Prithee let him alone. We shall have more
Prince. [comes forward] Peace, ye fat-guts! Lie down, lay thine ear
Queen. Alack,
Queen. Alack, what noise is this?
Queen. Alas, he's mad!
Queen. Alas, how is't with you,
Queen. Alas, look here, my lord!
Queen. Alas, sweet lady, what imports this song?
Queen. As kill a king?
Queen. Ay me, what act,
Queen. Ay, amen!
Queen. Be thou assur'd, if words be made of breath,
Queen. Bestow this place on us a little while.
Queen. But look where sadly the poor wretch comes reading.
Queen. But not by him!
Queen. Calmly, good Laertes.
Queen. Came this from Hamlet to her?
Queen. Come hither, my dear Hamlet, sit by me.
Queen. Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue.
Queen. Come, let me wipe thy face.
Queen. Did he receive you well?
Queen. Did you assay him
Queen. Drown'd, drown'd.
Queen. For love of God, forbear him!
Queen. Good gentlemen, he hath much talk'd of you,
Queen. Hamlet, Hamlet!
Queen. Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended.
Queen. Have you forgot me?
Queen. He's fat, and scant of breath.
Queen. How cheerfully on the false trail they cry!
Queen. How fares my lord?
Queen. How now, Ophelia?
Queen. I doubt it is no other but the main,
Queen. I shall obey you;
Queen. I will not speak with her.
Queen. I will, my lord; I pray you pardon me.          Drinks.
Queen. I'll warrant you; fear me not. Withdraw; I hear him coming.
Queen. Let her come in.
Queen. Mad as the sea and wind when both contend
Queen. More matter, with less art.
Queen. Nay, but Ophelia-
Queen. Nay, then I'll set those to you that can speak.
Queen. No more!
Queen. No, no! the drink, the drink! O my dear Hamlet!
Queen. No, nothing but ourselves.
Queen. Nothing at all; yet all that is I see.
Queen. O Hamlet, speak no more!
Queen. O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain.
Queen. O me, what hast thou done?
Queen. O my son, what theme?
Queen. O, speak to me no more!
Queen. O, what a rash and bloody deed is this!
Queen. One woe doth tread upon another's heel,
Queen. So he does indeed.
Queen. Sweets to the sweet! Farewell.
Queen. Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz.
Queen. The lady doth protest too much, methinks.
Queen. There is a willow grows aslant a brook,
Queen. This is mere madness;
Queen. This is the very coinage of your brain.
Queen. To draw apart the body he hath kill'd;
Queen. To whom do you speak this?
Queen. What have I done that thou dar'st wag thy tongue
Queen. What shall I do?
Queen. What wilt thou do? Thou wilt not murther me?
Queen. What would she have?
Queen. Why, how now, Hamlet?
Queen. it may be, very like.
RALPH MOULDY
ROBERT SHALLOW and SILENCE, country Justices
RUMOUR, the Presenter
RUMOUR. Open your ears; for which of you will stop
Rey. As gaming, my lord.
Rey. At 'closes in the consequence,' at 'friend or so,' and
Rey. Ay, my lord,
Rey. Ay, very well, my lord.
Rey. But, my good lord-
Rey. Good my lord!                                    [Going.]
Rey. I shall, my lord.
Rey. I will, my lord.
Rey. My lord, I did intend it.
Rey. My lord, I have.
Rey. My lord, that would dishonour him.
Rey. Very good, my lord.
Rey. Well, my lord.
Richard Scroop, Archbishop of York.
Ros. As the indifferent children of the earth.
Ros. Ay, my lord. They stay upon your patience.
Ros. Ay, that they do, my lord- Hercules and his load too.
Ros. Believe what?
Ros. Both your Majesties
Ros. Even those you were wont to take such delight in, the
Ros. Faith, there has been much to do on both sides; and the nation
Ros. Good my lord!
Ros. Good my lord, what is your cause of distemper? You do surely
Ros. Happily he's the second time come to them; for they say an old
Ros. He does confess he feels himself distracted,
Ros. Ho, Guildenstern! Bring in my lord.
Ros. How can that be, when you have the voice of the King himself
Ros. I think their inhibition comes by the means of the late
Ros. I understand you not, my lord.
Ros. Madam, it so fell out that certain players
Ros. Most like a gentleman.
Ros. My lord, there was no such stuff in my thoughts.
Ros. My lord, you must tell us where the body is and go with us to
Ros. My lord, you once did love me.
Ros. My most dear lord!
Ros. Nay, their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace; but there is,
Ros. Neither, my lord.
Ros. Niggard of question, but of our demands
Ros. No indeed are they not.
Ros. None, my lord, but that the world's grown honest.
Ros. She desires to speak with you in her closet ere you go to bed.
Ros. Take you me for a sponge, my lord?
Ros. Tell us where 'tis, that we may take it thence
Ros. The single and peculiar life is bound
Ros. Then is the world one.
Ros. Then thus she says: your behaviour hath struck her into
Ros. To think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what lenten
Ros. To visit you, my lord; no other occasion.
Ros. To what end, my lord?
Ros. Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy and light a quality that
Ros. We shall, my lord.
Ros. We think not so, my lord.
Ros. What have you done, my lord, with the dead body?
Ros. Where the dead body is bestow'd, my lord,
Ros. Why, then your ambition makes it one. 'Tis too narrow for your
Ros. Will't please you go, my lord?
Ros. Without, my lord; guarded, to know your pleasure.
Ros. [aside to Guildenstern] What say you?
Ros. [to Polonius] God save you, sir!
SCROOP, ARCHBISHOP OF YORK
SERVANT, to Lord Chief Justice
SIMON SHADOW
SIR JOHN COLVILLE
SIR JOHN FALSTAFF
Sailor. 'A shall, sir, an't please him. There's a letter for you,
Sailor. God bless you, sir.
Serv. He is, my lord, an hour ago.
Serv. It is, my lord.
Serv. One horse, my lord, he brought even now.
Servant. Seafaring men, sir. They say they have letters for you.
Sher. First, pardon me, my lord. A hue and cry
Sher. Good night, my noble lord.
Sher. I will, my lord. There are two gentlemen
Sher. Indeed, my lord, I think it be two o'clock.
Sher. One of them is well known, my gracious lord-
Sir John Falstaff.
Sir M. But there is Mordake, Vernon, Lord Harry Percy,
Sir M. Doubt not, my lord, they shall be well oppos'd.
Sir M. My good lord,
Sir M. Why, my good lord, you need not fear;
Sir Michael, a friend to the Archbishop of York.
Sir Richard Vernon.
Sir Walter Blunt.
THOMAS WART
THOMAS, DUKE OF CLARENCE
TRAVERS and MORTON, retainers of Northumberland
Thieves. Stand!
Thomas Percy, Earl of Worcester.
Traveller. Come, neighbour.
Traveller. Jesus bless us!
Traveller. O, we are undone, both we and ours for ever!
Ver. 'Twere best he did.
Ver. All furnish'd, all in arms;
Ver. And further, I have learn'd
Ver. Content.
Ver. Deliver what you will, I'll say 'tis so.
Ver. Do me no slander, Douglas. By my life-
Ver. Do not, my lord.
Ver. Not a whit.
Ver. Pray God my news be worth a welcome, lord.
Ver. So do we.
Ver. There is more news.
Ver. To thirty thousand.
Vint. What, stand'st thou still, and hear'st such a calling? Look
Volt. Most fair return of greetings and desires.
West. Ay, but, Sir John, methinks they are exceeding poor and bare-
West. Come, my lord, I'll lead you to your tent.
West. Faith, Sir John, 'tis more than time that I were there, and
West. He is, Sir John. I fear we shall stay too long.
West. I will my liege.                                 Exeunt.
West. In faith,
West. My liege, this haste was hot in question
West. This is his uncle's teaching, this Worcester,
West. This, match'd with other, did, my gracious lord;
Wor. And 'tis no little reason bids us speed,
Wor. And for whose death we in the world's wide mouth
Wor. And so they shall.
Wor. Ay, by my faith, that bears a frosty sound.
Wor. But yet I would your father had been here.
Wor. Cousin, farewell. No further go in this
Wor. Farewell, kinsman. I will talk to you
Wor. Good cousin, be advis'd; stir not to-night.
Wor. He apprehends a world of figures here,
Wor. Hear me, my liege.
Wor. Hear you, cousin, a word.
Wor. I cannot blame him. Was not he proclaim'd
Wor. I prithee tell me, doth he keep his bed?
Wor. I told him gently of our grievances,
Wor. I would the state of time had first been whole
Wor. In faith, my lord, you are too wilful-blame,
Wor. It may not be.
Wor. It pleas'd your Majesty to turn your looks
Wor. Nay, if you have not, to it again.
Wor. O no, my nephew must not know, Sir Richard,
Wor. Our house, my sovereign liege, little deserves
Wor. Peace, cousin, say no more;
Wor. The King will bid you battle presently.
Wor. The Prince of Wales stepp'd forth before the King
Wor. The number of the King exceedeth ours.
Wor. Then are we all undone.
Wor. Then once more to your Scottish prisoners.
Wor. There is no seeming mercy in the King.
Wor. Those same noble Scots
Wor. True; who bears hard
Wor. What I have done my safety urg'd me to;
Wor. Who struck this heat up after I was gone?
Wor. Yea, but a little charge will trench him here
Wor. You start away.
Wor. Your father's sickness is a maim to us.
Exit
and then, you know,
1598
1598
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSIO