






Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt.
Exit above
[Unveiling]
Exit PROVOST
Exit SHYLOCK
[Walks apart]
Exit ANNE PAGE
Exeunt. Alarum.
Exeunt severally
MISTRESS QUICKLY
Flourish. Exeunt.
[Presents a letter]
[Cornets, and exeunt]
A cry of women within.
Exeunt DUKE and PROVOST
Exeunt SHALLOW and EVANS
Exeunt FALSTAFF and ROBIN
Exeunt PORTIA and NERISSA
Exeunt fighting. Alarums.
Exeunt ABHORSON and POMPEY
Exeunt ABHORSON and POMPEY
Exeunt JESSICA and LORENZO
Exeunt Lucio and GENTLEMEN
Exeunt OFFICERS with LUCIO
Exeunt SALERIO and SOLANIO
Exeunt GRATIANO and LORENZO
Exeunt MARIANA and ISABELLA
[He opens the silver casket]
Exit with JESSICA and SALERIO
Exeunt LAUNCELOT and OLD GOBBO
Exeunt SOLANIO, SALERIO, and MAN
Enter POMPEY
Exeunt ELBOW, POMPEY and OFFICERS
Enter BARNARDINE
Enter LORENZO
Enter SHYLOCK
Enter VARRIUS
Exeunt DUKE, MAGNIFICOES, and train
SONG
A SONG
Enter ABHORSON
Enter ANGELO
Enter ANTONIO
Enter ISABELLA
Enter PAGE
Enter PROVOST
LUCIO following
Re-enter DUKE
[The PROVOST lays bands on the DUKE]
and JULIET
Enter CLAUDIO
Enter HOST
Enter ISABELLA
Enter LUCIO
Enter LUCIO
Enter SERVANT
MISTRESS OVERDONE
Re-enter SERVANT
from Venice
Enter ABHORSON
Enter ANGELO
Enter FENTON
Enter GRATIANO
Enter GRATIANO
Enter JESSICA
Enter JULIET
Enter LUCIO
Enter MUSICIANS
Enter ROBIN
Enter SHYLOCK
Enter SIMPLE
Enter TUBAL
Re-enter PROVOST
Re-enter PROVOST
They fight, and young Seward is slain.
Enter FRIAR PETER
Enter ISABELLA
Enter LAUNCELOT
Enter Lucio and ISABELLA
Enter SHALLOW
Enter a MESSENGER
Enter a SERVINGMAN
Re-enter PAGE
Re-enter PROVOST
Re-enter RUGBY
Enter ANTONIO
Enter ISABELLA
Enter MISTRESS OVERDONE
Exit with his train. Flourish of cornets
Re-enter PROVOST
Enter DOCTOR CAIUS
Enter LORENZO
Enter MISTRESS FORD
Enter STEPHANO
Enter a SERVANT
Re-enter ANNE PAGE
Re-enter MARIANA
Enter Macduff.
Exeunt all but SHALLOW, SLENDER, and EVANS
Enter JESSICA, below
Enter MARIANA veiled
Enter MISTRESS QUICKLY
Enter MISTRESS QUICKLY
Enter OLD GOBBO, with a basket
Enter young Siward.
DUKE in his friar's habit
Enter PORTIA and NERISSA
Enter a MAN from ANTONIO
PORTIA, and their trains
I'll begin it- Ding, dong, bell.
Let us all ring fancy's knell:
Reply, reply.
Enter DUKE, disguised as before
Enter DUKE, disguised as before
Re-enter Seyton.
-THE END-
Enter DUKE, disguised as before
Enter FRIAR PETER and ISABELLA
Enter LAUNCELOT, With a letter
Enter a Messenger.
How begot, how nourished?
In the cradle where it lies.
It is engend'red in the eyes,
Or in the heart or in the head,
Re-enter MARIANA and ISABELLA
Tell me where is fancy bred,
With gazing fed; and fancy dies
Alarums. Enter Macduff.
Enter Malcolm and old Siward.
Exeunt ANGELO, MARIANA, FRIAR PETER, and PROVOST
Enter BASSANIO, LORENZO, and GRATIANO
FORD and MISTRESS PAGE, following
Enter ESCALUS, PROVOST, and OFFICERS with
Lights that do mislead the morn;
MISTRESS PAGE and MISTRESS FORD come forward
Re-enter Macduff, with Macbeth's head.
That so sweetly were forsworn;
[Pulls off the FRIAR'S bood and discovers the DUKE]
Enter PROVOST, CLAUDIO, JULIET, and OFFICERS;
And those eyes, the break of day,
But my kisses bring again, bring again;
Enter FORD with PISTOL, and PAGE with Nym
Enter JESSICA, above, in boy's clothes
Enter NERISSA dressed like a lawyer's clerk
Seals of love, but seal'd in vain, seal'd in vain.
Take, O, take those lips away,
Enter LORENZO, JESSICA, and SALERIO, a messenger
Enter MISTRESS ANNE PAGE with wine; MISTRESS
'All that glisters is not gold,
'The fire seven times tried this;
'You that choose not by the view,
And claim her with a loving kiss.'
And hold your fortune for your bliss,
And perform an old contracting.                    Exit
Be content and seek no new.
But I go away with two.
But my outside to behold.
By the time I linger here.
Chance as fair and choose as true!
Craft against vice I must apply.
Enter BASSANIO, with LEONARDO, with a FOLLOWER or two
Enter ELBOW and OFFICERS with FROTH and POMPEY
Fare you well, your suit is cold.'
Gilded tombs do worms infold.
Grace to stand, and virtue go;
Had you been as wise as bold,
He who the sword of heaven will bear
His old betrothed but despised;
How may likeness, made in crimes,
I will ever be your head.
If you be well pleas'd with this,
Kills for faults of his own liking!
Make a practice on the times,
Many a man his life hath sold
More nor less to others paying
Most ponderous and substantial things!
O, what may man within him hide,
Often have you heard that told;
Patiently to bear my wroth.         Exit with his train
Pattern in himself to know,
Pay with falsehood false exacting,
Seven times tried that judgment is
Shame to him whose cruel striking
Should be as holy as severe;
Silver'd o'er, and so was this.
Since this fortune falls to you,
So be gone; you are sped.'
So disguise shall, by th' disguised,
Some there be that shadows kiss,
Still more fool I shall appear
Such have but a shadow's bliss.
Sweet, adieu! I'll keep my oath,
Take what wife you will to bed,
Than by self-offences weighing.
That did never choose amiss.
There be fools alive iwis
Though angel on the outward side!
To draw with idle spiders' strings
To weed my vice and let his grow!
Turn to where your lady is
Twice treble shame on Angelo,
With Angelo to-night shall lie
With one fool's head I came to woo,
Young in limbs, in judgment old,
Your answer had not been inscroll'd.
There will come a Christian by
Will be worth a Jewess' eye.                        Exit
Enter BASSANIO, ANTONIO, GRATIANO, and their followers
Flourish of cornets. Enter the PRINCE OF ARRAGON,
Re-enter ANGELO, MARIANA, FRIAR PETER, and PROVOST
Re-enter OFFICERS with ISABELLA; and PROVOST with the
Re-enter PROVOST, with BARNARDINE, CLAUDIO (muffled)
Cold indeed, and labour lost,
Enter PORTIA for BALTHAZAR, dressed like a Doctor of Laws
Enter SIR JOHN FALSTAFF, BARDOLPH, NYM, and PISTOL
Then farewell, heat, and welcome, frost.
come.                                         Exit PROVOST
door.                                               Exeunt
noise?
swearing
the whilst BASSANIO comments on the caskets to himself
Wherefore was that cry?
complaints; and to deliver us from devices hereafter, which
"Here may you see the tyrant."
'An Angelo for Claudio, death for death!'
'Ask me no reason why I love you; for though Love use
'Budge,' says the fiend. 'Budge not,' says my conscience.
'Conscience,' say I, (you counsel well.' 'Fiend,' say I, 'you
'Fair sir, you spit on me on Wednesday last,
'From their abominable and beastly touches
'Hath a dog money? Is it possible
'Let them be free, marry them to your heirs-
'My daughter! O my ducats! O my daughter!
'Nearest his heart,' those are the very words.
'Remember now my brother.'
'Shylock, we would have moneys.' You say so-
'The slaves are ours.' So do I answer you:
'Tis best that thou diest quickly.
'Tis mightiest in the mightiest; it becomes
'Tis my deserving, and I do entreat it.
'Tis nine o'clock; our friends all stay for you;
'Tis not the devil's crest.
'Tis now dead midnight, and by eight to-morrow
'Tis that he sent me of the Duke's return.
'Tis true. My name is Nym, and Falstaff loves your wife.
'Tween man and man; but thou, thou meagre lead,
'Tween snow and fire as treason and my love.
'Twere good you do so much for charity.
'Twill be recorded for a precedent,
'Twixt you and your poor brother.
'Twould be my tyranny to strike and gall them
'Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath.'
'Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath.'
'Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath.'
'Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire.'
'Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire.'
'Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire.'
'Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves.'
'Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves.'
'Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves.'
'Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves.'
'Who chooseth me shall have as much as he deserves.'
'and run.' Well, my conscience, hanging about the neck of my
'good Launcelot Gobbo, use your legs, take the start, run away.'
'marry her,' I will marry her; that I am freely dissolved,
'marry trap' with you, if you run the nuthook's humour on
'resolutely'; his meaning is good.
't, and I have a disguise to sound Falstaff. If I find her
'tis a good dog.
'tis here. I have seen the time with my long sword I would
-and, I with my ward defending my head, he hot my shin,
-out of my conversation, that he dares in this manner
A blasting and a scandalous breath to fall
A breed for barren metal of his friend?-
A business for yourself, pray heaven you then
A carrion Death, within whose empty eye
A coin that bears the figure of an angel
A creature that did bear the shape of man
A cur can lend three thousand ducats?' Or
A day in April never came so sweet
A due sincerity govern'd his deeds
A forted residence 'gainst the tooth of time
A gentle scroll. Fair lady, by your leave;
A golden mesh t' entrap the hearts of men
A golden mind stoops not to shows of dross;
A goodly apple rotten at the heart.
A horse whereon the governor doth ride,
A kind of boy, a little scrubbed boy
A kneaded clod; and the delighted spirit
A league below the city; and from thence,
A losing suit against him. Are you answered?
A man already made, as to remit
A man of Claudio's years; his beard and head
A man of stricture and firm abstinence,
A many fools that stand in better place,
A marble monument!
A merriment than a vice.
A messenger with letters from the doctor,
A natural guiltiness such as is his,
A novice of this place, and the fair sister
A pond as deep as hell.
A pound of flesh, to be by him cut off
A pound of man's flesh taken from a man
A pow'r I have, but of what strength and nature
A prating boy that begg'd it as a fee;
A proverb never stale in thrifty mind.                  Exit
A sealed bag, two sealed bags of ducats,
A stage, where every man must play a part,
A stony adversary, an inhuman wretch,
A substitute shines brightly as a king
A thing not in his power to bring to pass,
A thing stuck on with oaths upon your finger
A thirsty evil; and when we drink we die.
A thousand raw tricks of these bragging Jacks,
A thousand times more fair, ten thousand times more rich,
A very scurvy fellow.
A vessel of our country richly fraught.
A warrant for his execution.
A weight of carrion flesh than to receive
A word of this. What ho, within! come forth.
A young Venetian, one that comes before
A young and learned doctor to our court.
About a twelvemonth. I have within my mind
About my moneys and my usances;
According to our order.
Accountant to the law upon that pain.
Accuse him home and home. For my poor self,
Achiev'd her mistress.
Acquaint her with the danger of my state;
Adieu! I love not the humour of bread and cheese; and
Advertising and holy to your business,
After him, fellows; bring him to the block.
After his death, of all he dies possess'd of.
After the moon. If thou art rich, thou'rt poor;
Against my brother's life.
Against our substitute! Let this friar be found.
Against the thing I say. Answer to this:
Alack, what heinous sin is it in me
Alack, when once our grace we have forgot,
Albeit I'll swear that I do know your tongue.
All in an hour.
All sects, all ages, smack of this vice; and he
All their petitions are as freely theirs
Already, and, as I hear, the Provost hath
Although by confiscation they are ours,
Am I to fear, or none.
Am that way going to temptation
Among the buzzing pleased multitude,
An 'twere to me, I should be mad at it.
An age of poverty; from which ling'ring penance
An army of good words; and I do know
An evil soul producing holy witness
An hypocrite, a virgin-violator,
Anchors on Isabel. Heaven in my mouth,
And Death unloads thee. Friend hast thou none;
And He that might the vantage best have took
And I am going with instruction to him.
And I am prest unto it; therefore, speak.
And I be pleas'd to give ten thousand ducats
And I confess, besides, I am no maid.
And I did yield to him. But the next morn betimes,
And I have better news in store for you
And I have reason for it. Signior Antonio
And I must freely have the half of anything
And I should be obscur'd.
And I will go and purse the ducats straight,
And I will sign it.
And I, delivering you, am satisfied,
And Portia one, there must be something else
And all for use of that which is mine own.
And all our yesterdays have lighted fools
And all probation, will make up full clear,
And be a day before our husbands home.
And be my vantage to exclaim on you.
And be these juggling fiends no more believed
And beat them backward home.
And begg'd the ring; the which I did deny him,
And better in my mind not undertook.
And bid him keep it better than the other.
And bid the main flood bate his usual height;
And bid them bring the trumpets to the gate;
And blown with restless violence round about
And break it to our hope. I'll not fight with thee.
And bring your music forth into the air.       Exit STEPHANO
And by an eminent body that enforc'd
And by my side wear steel? Then Lucifer take all!
And by our holy Sabbath have I sworn
And ceremoniously let us prepare
And charge us there upon inter'gatories,
And charges him, my lord, with such a time
And choke your good to come. For his possessions,
And comes to his election presently.
And credulous to false prints.
And curb this cruel devil of his will.
And damn'd be him that first cries, "Hold, enough!"
And did supply thee at thy garden-house
And die with grieving.
And dispossessing all my other parts
And do a wilful stillness entertain,
And do him right that, answering one foul wrong,
And doth impeach the freedom of the state,
And down, down, adown-a, etc.
And draw her home with music.                        [Music]
And dull to all proceedings. A deflow'red maid!
And earthly power doth then show likest God's
And either not attempt to choose at all,
And even but now return'd; I have not yet
And even there, his eye being big with tears,
And every object that might make me fear
And every word in it a gaping wound
And fair she is, if that mine eyes be true,
And feast upon her eyes? What is't I dream on?
And find it out by proclamation;
And fit his mind to death, for his soul's rest.         Exit
And five years since there was some speech of marriage
And follows close the rigour of the statute
And foot me as you spurn a stranger cur
And for the Jew's bond which he hath of me,
And for thy life let justice be accus'd.
And from this testimony of your own sex,
And from your love I have a warranty
And general honour.
And given his deputation all the organs
And given me justice, justice, justice, justice.
And good supporters are you.
And hath preferr'd thee, if it be preferment
And he may fetch him.
And he repents not that he pays your debt;
And he shall marry her. The nuptial finish'd,
And he supposes me travell'd to Poland;
And he that got it, sentenc'd- a young man
And he that suffers. O, it is excellent
And hedg'd me by his wit to yield myself
And held in idle price to haunt assemblies
And here choose I. Joy be the consequence!
And here, I take it, is the doctor come.
And hide the false seems true.
And high and low beguiles the rich and poor;
And his affections dark as Erebus.
And his soft couch defile.
And hold no longer out.
And hold you ever to our special drift;
And how shall we continue Claudio,
And how unwillingly I left the ring,
And hug it in mine arms.
And if it stand, as you yourself still do,
And if on earth he do not merit it,
And if your wife be not a mad woman,
And in my heart the strong and swelling evil
And in such eyes as ours appear not faults;
And in the hearing of these many friends
And in the morning early will we both
And in the witness of his proper ear,
And in their ship I am sure Lorenzo is not.
And instantly unlock my fortunes here.
And it in you more dreadful would have seem'd
And it is meet I presently set forth.
And jewels- two stones, two rich and precious stones,
And know how well I have deserv'd this ring,
And lack of temper'd judgment afterward.
And laugh like parrots at a bag-piper;
And lawfully by this the Jew may claim
And leave itself unfurnish'd. Yet look how far
And leave you naked.
And leave you to the hearing of the cause,
And let go by the actor.
And let him learn to know, when maidens sue,
And let him sign it; we'll away tonight,
And let it keep one shape till custom make it
And let my liver rather heat with wine
And let the Christian go.
And let the angel whom thou still hast served
And let the subject see, to make them know
And let them work. The nature of our people,
And let us make incision for your love
And liberty plucks justice by the nose;
And little is to do.
And live to be the show and gaze o' the time.
And look what notes and garments he doth give thee,
And lose my hopes.
And make us even with you. My Thanes and kinsmen,
And make us lose the good we oft might win
And many Jasons come in quest of her.
And many an error, by the same example,
And mercy then will breathe within your lips,
And mine a sad one.
And more I beg not.                           Exit. Alarums.
And most desire should meet the blow of justice;
And most pernicious purpose! Seeming, seeming!
And must be buried but as an intent
And ne'er a true one.
And neither heaven nor man grieve at the mercy.
And neither man nor master would take aught
And never be Bassanio so for me;
And never dare misfortune cross her foot,
And none of them been worn; and, for a name,
And not bethink me straight of dangerous rocks,
And not have cut him off. Some one hath set you on;
And not my brother.
And not one vessel scape the dreadful touch
And not the punishment. Therefore, indeed, my father,
And nothing come in partial. Sir, he must die.
And nothing of your answer.
And now I give my sensual race the rein:
And now worth nothing? Shall I have the thought
And now, dear maid, be you as free to us.
And now, good sweet, say thy opinion,
And now, methinks, I have a mind to it.
And of opposed natures.
And on the wager lay two earthly women,
And other of such vinegar aspect
And others, when the bagpipe sings i' th' nose,
And out of doubt you do me now more wrong
And pitch our evils there? O, fie, fie, fie!
And pluck commiseration of his state
And pray thee take this mercy to provide
And pull'd the law upon you.
And punish them to your height of pleasure.
And put your trial in the villain's mouth
And quicken his embraced heaviness
And rack thee in their fancies.
And ran dismayed away.
And rank me with the barbarous multitudes.
And rather prov'd the sliding of your brother
And razure of oblivion. Give me your hand.
And satisfy the deputy with the visage
And saw the lion's shadow ere himself,
And say there is much kindness in the Jew.
And see my wealthy Andrew dock'd in sand,
And see our pleasure herein executed.
And see the holy edifice of stone,
And sent according to command; whiles I
And shall be absent. Wend you with this letter.
And she is fair and, fairer than that word,
And show like those you are. You, worthy uncle,
And shudd'ring fear, and green-ey'd jealousy!
And sigh'd his soul toward the Grecian tents,
And six or seven winters more respect
And sleep and snore, and rend apparel out-
And smell of calumny. I have begun,
And so God be with him! Here comes newer comfort.
And so all yours. O! these naughty times
And so deep sticks it in my penitent heart
And so did mine too, as the matter falls;
And so farewell. I would not have my father
And so his knell is knoll'd.
And so in progress to be hatch'd and born-
And so it is received. Now, pious sir,
And so may I, blind Fortune leading me,
And so riveted with faith unto your flesh.
And so, I pray you, tell him. Furthermore,
And so, though yours, not yours. Prove it so,
And some condemned for a fault alone.
And speak between the change of man and boy
And spit upon my Jewish gaberdine,
And squar'st thy life according. Thou'rt condemn'd;
And strip myself to death as to a bed
And such a want-wit sadness makes of me
And suffer'd him to go displeas'd away-
And summon him to marriage. Now he goes,
And swear I lost the ring defending it.
And swearing till my very roof was dry
And take her hence in horror.
And take the shame with joy.
And tell him where I stay; give the like notice
And thankfully rest debtor for the first.
And that I have possess'd him my most stay
And that I'll spend for him.
And that it should lie with you in your grave;
And that no lawful means can carry me
And that same prayer doth teach us all to render
And that thou oft provok'st; yet grossly fear'st
And that which you did swear to keep for me,
And that, by great injunctions, I am bound
And the new deputy now for the Duke-
And the offender's life lies in the mercy
And the poor beetle that we tread upon
And the vile squealing of the wry-neck'd fife,
And then I told you true. And yet, dear lady,
And then away to Venice to your friend;
And then is heard no more. It is a tale
And then to scape drowning thrice, and to be in peril of my life
And there is such confusion in my powers
And there receive her approbation;
And there we will abide. I do desire you
And there's an oath of credit.
And therefore, like herself, wise, fair, and true,
And therein do account myself well paid.
And these assume but valour's excrement
And they did make no noise- in such a night,
And thou opposed, being of no woman born,
And thrift is blessing, if men steal it not.
And to be baited with the rabble's curse.
And to be shortly of a sisterhood,
And to be talk'd with in sincerity,
And to set on this wretched woman here
And to that vineyard is a planched gate
And to transport him in the mind he is
And true she is, as she hath prov'd herself;
And try your penitence, if it be sound
And twenty of these puny lies I'll tell,
And use thou all th' endeavour of a man
And wat'ry death-bed for him. He may win;
And we are stay'd for at Bassanio's feast.
And we may soon our satisfaction have
And we will answer all things faithfully.
And wear my dagger with the braver grace,
And weigh thy value with an even hand.
And well said too; for who shall go about
And well she can persuade.
And what a prisoner.
And what is music then? Then music is
And what thou hast, forget'st. Thou art not certain;
And when I ope my lips let no dog bark.'
And when the work of generation was
And where thou now exacts the penalty,
And whiter than the paper it writ on
And will acknowledge you and Jessica
And wish for all that, that I had not kill'd them.
And wish the estate o' the world were now undone.
And wish'd in silence that it were not his.
And with affection wondrous sensible
And with an unthrift love did run from Venice
And with full line of his authority,
And would conceive for what I gave the ring,
And would not be awak'd.                      [Music ceases]
And yet I am sure you are not satisfied
And yet a maiden hath no tongue but thought-
And yet here's one in place I cannot pardon.
And yet my nature never in the fight
And yet no matter- why should we go in?
And yet run'st toward him still. Thou art not noble;
And yet to be afeard of my deserving
And yet, thy wealth being forfeit to the state,
And you but waste your words.
And you embrace th' occasion to depart.
And you in love shall not deny me this.
And you may marvel why I obscur'd myself,
And you shall be conducted.
And you shall have your bosom on this wretch,
And you shall see 'tis purchas'd by the weight,
And you shall well be spar'd.
And you tell me that he shall die for't.
And you were Isabel! Should it then be thus?
And you, my noble and well-warranted cousin,
And, Launcelot, soon at supper shalt thou see
And, by the near guess of my memory,
And, for my love, I pray you wrong me not.
And, for the most, become much more the better
And, in a word, but even now worth this,
And, in the doing of the deed of kind,
And, on my trust, a man that never yet
And, seeking death, find life. Let it come on.
And, when she put it on, she made me vow
And, when the tale is told, bid her be judge
And, when your honours mean to solemnize
And, whilst thou layest in thy unhallowed dam,
Angelo; if for this night he entreat you to his bed, give him
Angelo? They have confess'd you did.
Anne's mind as well as another does. Out upon 't, what
Anne's mind-that's neither here nor there.
Another thing to fall. I not deny
Antonio have had any loss at sea or no?
Antonio, gratify this gentleman,
Are hired to bear their staves. Either thou, Macbeth,
Are not thine own so proper as to waste
Are not with me esteem'd above thy life;
Are now to have no successive degrees,
Are nurs'd by baseness. Thou 'rt by no means valiant;
Are of two houses: lawful mercy
Are richly come to harbour suddenly.
Are safely come to road.
Are stuck upon thee. Volumes of report
Are they return'd?
Are with more spirit chased than enjoyed.
Are wolfish, bloody, starv'd and ravenous.
Are you acquainted with the difference
Are yours- my lord's. I give them with this ring,
Are, by the laws of Venice, confiscate
Arise to let him in; he is call'd up.
As Angelo; even so may Angelo,
As I have ever found thee honest-true,
As I have heard him swear himself there's one
As I subscribe not that, nor any other,
As I will watch the aim, or to find both,
As I, thus wrong'd, hence unbelieved go!
As Jove himself does, Jove would never be quiet,
As all comforts are; most good, most good, indeed.
As any comer I have look'd on yet
As are those dulcet sounds in break of day
As are to meet him.
As art and practice hath enriched any
As bring me to the sight of Isabella,
As calling home our exiled friends abroad
As cause doth minister. Go, call at Flavius' house,
As doubtful thoughts, and rash-embrac'd despair,
As doubtful whether what I see be true,
As e'er I heard in madness.
As easy mayst thou the intrenchant air
As falcon doth the fowl, is yet a devil;
As fancy values them; but with true prayers
As far as Belmont.
As flesh of muttons, beefs, or goats. I say,
As frankly as a pin.
As from her lord, her governor, her king.
As he's reported by this gentleman;
As his wise mother wrought in his behalf,
As if I did but only chew his name,
As if my brother liv'd. I partly think
As if we had them not. Spirits are not finely touch'd
As life were in't. I have supp'd full with horrors;
As like almost to Claudio as himself.    [Unmuffles CLAUDIO]
As long as you or I; yet he must die.
As makes it light or heavy in the substance,
As makes the angels weep; who, with our speens,
As mercy does.
As mice by lions- hath pick'd out an act
As mine is to him?
As much as I deserve? Why, that's the lady!
As much as he deserves! Pause there, Morocco,
As much in mock as mark.
As my mother was, the first hour I was born.
As o'er a brook to see fair Portia.
As seek to soften that- than which what's harder?-
As shall conveniently become you there.'
As she from one ungot.
As she that he hath stain'd?
As stairs of sand, wear yet upon their chins
As surfeit is the father of much fast,
As that the sin hath brought you to this shame,
As the dog Jew did utter in the streets.
As then the messenger-
As there comes light from heaven and words from breath,
As there is no firm reason to be rend'red
As there is sense in truth and truth in virtue,
As they fly by them with their woven wings.
As they themselves would owe them.
As this fore-spurrer comes before his lord.
As those that feed grow full, as blossoming time
As thou hast done with me- What, Jessica!-
As time and our concernings shall importune,
As to offend, himself being offended;
As to put metal in restrained means
As to thy friends- for when did friendship take
As to your soul seems good. Give me your hand;
As when a giant dies.
As who should say 'I am Sir Oracle,
As with a saint.
As words could make up vows. And, my good lord,
As you, Lord Angelo, have still appear'd,
As, after some oration fairly spoke
At Gratiano's lodging some hour hence.
At Mariana's house to-night. Her cause and yours
At an unusual hour?
At least we'll die with harness on our back.         Exeunt.
At our more leisure shall I render you.
At the park gate; and therefore haste away,
At war 'twixt will and will not.
Attorney'd at your service.
Awakes me all the enrolled penalties
Away with him to death! [To LUCIO] Now, sir, to you.
Away with him!
Away, Sir Corporal Nym.
Barnardine!
Barnardine's head. I will give him a present shrift, and advise
Barnardine. For my better satisfaction, let me have Claudio's
Bars me the right of voluntary choosing.
Base Phrygian Turk!
Bassanio presently will go aboard;
Bassanio told him he would make some speed
Be an arch-villain. Believe it, royal Prince,
Be executed by nine to-morrow morning;
Be here at Belmont; she doth stray about
Be made as soft as yours, and let their palates
Be merry, and employ your chiefest thoughts
Be nominated for an equal pound
Be perdurably fin'd?- O Isabel!
Be perfect.
Be season'd with such viands'? You will answer
Be sometime honour'd for his burning throne!
Be stamp'd upon it.
Be valued 'gainst your wife's commandment.
Be with my hopes abroad. I should be still
Bear me to prison, where I am committed.
Because I will not jump with common spirits
Because we see it; but what we do not see
Because what follows is pure innocence.
Because you are not merry; and 'twere as easy
Because you are not sad. Now, by two-headed Janus,
Because you bought them; shall I say to you
Become a Christian and thy loving wife.                 Exit
Become the touches of sweet harmony.
Become them with one half so good a grace
Becomes as aged, and doth beg the alms
Becomes more mock'd than fear'd; so our decrees,
Before a friend of this description
Before his sister should her body stoop
Before so noble and so great a figure
Before the Duke; and to the head of Angelo
Before they think of us.
Before we reckon with your several loves
Before you hazard; for, in choosing wrong,
Before you venture for me. I could teach you
Being a murderer, though he were my brother.
Being come to knowledge that there was complaint
Being criminal in double violation
Being ten times undervalued to tried gold?
Being the bosom lover of my lord,
Believe it, Page; he speaks sense.               Exit PISTOL
Believe me, you are marvellously chang'd.
Believe not that the dribbling dart of love
Besides, Antonio certified the Duke
Besides, it should appear that, if he had
Besides, the lott'ry of my destiny
Besides, upon the very siege of justice,
Betimes i' th' morn I'll call you at your house;
Better it were a brother died at once
Between these woolly breeders in the act,
Between you 'greed concerning her observance?
Betwixt myself and her; which was broke off,
Bid your friends welcome, show a merry cheer;
Bidding the law make curtsy to their will;
Bless you, friar.
Bore many gentlemen, myself being one,
Both thanks and use. But I do bend my speech
Both young and old, one with another, Ford;
Brandish'd by man that's of a woman born.              Exit.
Bring him his confessor; let him be prepar'd;
Bring me the fairest creature northward born,
Bring them, I pray thee, with imagin'd speed
Brook-only for a jest.
Builds in the weather on the outward wall,
But Barnardine must die this afternoon;
But God sort all! You are welcome home, my lord.
But I should think of shallows and of flats,
But I will go. Go you before me, sirrah;
But I will keep her ignorant of her good,
But Tuesday night last gone, in's garden-house,
But as we stand in fear-
But at this instant he is sick, my lord,
But bear-like I must fight the course. What's he
But come at once,
But come, I'll tell thee all my whole device
But do not like to stage me to their eyes;
But doth rebate and blunt his natural edge
But fare thee well; there is a ducat for thee;
But faults so countenanc'd that the strong statutes
But fetter you till death.
But fish not with this melancholy bait
But from Lord Angelo by special charge.
But get thee back, my soul is too much charged
But get thee gone; I shall be there before thee.
But go we in, I pray thee, Jessica,
But graciously to know I am no better.
But he must die to-morrow?
But here an angel in a golden bed
But here they live to end.
But how I caught it, found it, or came by it,
But if you do, you'll make me wish a sin,
But if you fail, without more speech, my lord,
But if you knew to whom you show this honour,
But in his motion like an angel sings,
But in the estimation of a hair-
But in the less foul profanation.
But in the presence of the prioress;
But instruments of some more mightier member
But it confounds the breather. He should have liv'd,
But judge you as you are? O, think on that;
But just a pound of flesh; if thou tak'st more
But know not how to do it.
But knows he thinks that he knows Isabel's.
But lend it rather to thine enemy,
But lest you should not understand me well-
But let me hear the letter of your friend.
But let me to my fortune and the caskets.
But let my trial be mine own confession;
But life itself, my wife, and all the world,
But like a man he died.
But love is blind, and lovers cannot see
But meeting with Salerio by the way,
But mercy is above this sceptred sway,
But more for that in low simplicity
But more than these, in love I do deserve.
But music for the time doth change his nature.
But my entreaty too.
But none can drive him from the envious plea
But note me, signior.
But one, the wicked'st caitiff on the ground,
But only hope:
But rather wishing a more strict restraint
But say it is my humour- is it answer'd?
But send me Flavius first.
But she may learn; happier than this,
But stay the very riping of the time;
But stir not you till you have well determin'd
But stop my house's ears- I mean my casements;
But sway'd and fashion'd by the hand of heaven.
But swords I smile at, weapons laugh to scorn,
But tell not me; I know Antonio
But that to your sufficiency- as your worth is able-
But the two rings.
But there is come a messenger before,
But there the Duke was given to understand
But there's no remedy.
But this being so, he's just. [Knocking within] Now are they
But though I am a daughter to his blood,
But thy unkindness shall his death draw out
But to fine issues; nor Nature never lends
But we will visit you at supper-time.                 Exeunt
But we'll outface them, and outswear them too.
But were the day come, I should wish it dark,
But where thou art not known, why there they show
But whilst this muddy vesture of decay
But who comes here?
But who comes here? Lorenzo and his infidel?
But with all brief and plain conveniency
But yet I'll go in hate, to feed upon
But yet, poor Claudio! There is no remedy.
But you, Lorenzo, whether I am yours?
But, as it were, an after-dinner's sleep,
But, being season'd with a gracious voice,
But, for those earthly faults, I quit them all,
But, hark, I hear the footing of a man.
But, if ever the Duke return, as our prayers are he may, let me
But, if my father had not scanted me,
But, in the cutting it, if thou dost shed
But, in the loss of question, that you, his sister,
But, like a thrifty goddess, she determines
But, since I am a dog, beware my fangs;
But, touch'd with human gentleness and love,
By a beloved prince, there doth appear
By all external warrants, show it now
By being peevish? I tell thee what, Antonio-
By cold gradation and well-balanc'd form.
By day or night,
By every syllable a faithful verity.
By fearing to attempt. Go to Lord Angelo,
By heaven, I will ne'er come in your bed
By holy crosses, where she kneels and prays
By nice direction of a maiden's eyes;
By putting on the destin'd livery.
By so receiving a dishonour'd life
By something showing a more swelling port
By taking nor by giving of excess,
By the bad voice.
By the exaction of the forfeiture?
By the fool multitude, that choose by show,
By the sweet power of music. Therefore the poet
By this Lord Angelo perceives he's safe;
By this great clatter, one of greatest note
By those that know the very nerves of state,
By throwing it on any other object
By vain though apt affection.
By what we do to-night.
By which he should revive; and even so
By yielding up thy body to my will;
By your renouncement an immortal spirit,
CAIUS. By my trot, I tarry too long. Od's me! Qu'ai j'oublie?
Caesar to you; in plain dealing, Pompey, I shall have you whipt.
Caius, coming. If he do, i' faith, and find anybody in the
Caius.
Came short of composition; but in chief
Can alter a decree established;
Can be but brief; for I have made him know
Can censure scape; back-wounding calumny
Can lay on nature is a paradise
Can pierce a complete bosom. Why I desire thee
Can tie the gall up in the slanderous tongue?
Cannot but yield you forth to public thanks,
Cannot contain their urine; for affection,
Cannot impugn you as you do proceed.
Cannot once start me.
Canst thou believe thy living is a life,
Caper, at the suit of Master Threepile the mercer, for some four
Chamber matter of it; if he were twenty Sir John Falstaffs,
Charybdis, your mother; well, you are gone both ways.
Christian.
Clamber not you up to the casements then,
Claudio be executed by four of the clock, and, in the afternoon,
Claudio prepar'd. I am made to understand that you have lent him
Come all to help him, and so stop the air
Come here to-day.
Come hither.                                   [They retire]
Come you hither to me, Master Tapster; what's your name, Master
Come you to seek the lamb here of the fox,
Come, Nerissa. Sirrah, go before.
Come, come, Nerissa, for I long to see
Come, go with me, peruse this as thou goest;
Come, good Lorenzo. Fare ye well awhile;
Come, ho, and wake Diana with a hymn;
Come, sir.                                            Exeunt
Come, take-a your rapier, and come after my heel to the
Come, we will walk. There's other of our friends
Come, you and I will thither presently;
Comes to the privy coffer of the state;
Comes toward Dunsinane. Arm, arm, and out!
Command these fretting waters from your eyes
Commend me to my brother; soon at night
Commend me to your honourable wife;
Commends him to you.               [Gives BASSANIO a letter]
Commits itself to yours to be directed,
Compact with her that's gone, think'st thou thy oaths,
Condemn'd upon the act of fornication
Confess the truth, and say by whose advice
Consenting to the safeguard of your honour,
Consisteth of all nations. Therefore, go;
Constable. How long have you been in this place of constable?
Coram.
Correction and instruction must both work
Corrupt with virtuous season. Can it be
Could I with boot change for an idle plume
Could fetch your brother from the manacles
Could have attain'd th' effect of your own purpose
Could turn so much the constitution
Creep in our ears; soft stillness and the night
Creeps in this petty pace from day to day
Crowd to his presence, where their untaught love
Crying, his stones, his daughter, and his ducats.
Cut off by course of justice-
Dare no more stretch this finger of mine than he
Dare rack his own; his subject am I not,
Dead to infliction, to themselves are dead;
Defy the matter. How cheer'st thou, Jessica?
Dere is some simples in my closet dat I vill not for the
Deserv'd it too; and then the boy, his clerk,
Desired us to make stand.
Desires access to you.
Diana, unless I be obtained by the manner of my father's will. I
Did I deserve no more than a fool's head?
Did Jessica steal from the wealthy Jew,
Did Thisby fearfully o'ertrip the dew,
Did feign that Orpheus drew trees, stones, and floods;
Did not go forth of us, 'twere all alike
Did pretty Jessica, like a little shrew,
Did utter forth a voice. Yes, thou must die:
Did you ever hear the like?
Did young Lorenzo swear he lov'd her well,
Did, as he vouches, misreport your Grace.
Didst rob it of some taste of tediousness.
Die; perish. Might but my bending down
Directly int'rest; mark what Jacob did:
Direness, familiar to my slaughterous thoughts,
Disguise us at my lodging, and return
Dispatch it presently; the hour draws on
Do as I bid you, shut doors after you.
Do as the carrion does, not as the flow'r,
Do better upon them.
Do come to Dunsinane," and now a wood
Do cream and mantle like a standing pond,
Do curse the gout, serpigo, and the rheum,
Do it in hope of fair advantages.
Do not draw back your hand; I'll take no more,
Do overpeer the petty traffickers,
Do we but find the tyrant's power tonight,
Do we jest now, think you?
Do with your injuries as seems you best
Do you desire?  [To ANTONIO]  Rest you fair, good signior;
Do you know me?
Do you not smile at this, Lord Angelo?
Do you the office, friar; which consummate,
Do you your office, or give up your place,
Dost thou desire her foully for those things
Doth flourish the deceit. Come, let us go;
Doth grossly close it in, we cannot hear it.
Doth limp behind the substance. Here's the scroll,
Doth teach me answers for deliverance!
Double six thousand, and then treble that,
Down, therefore, and beg mercy of the Duke.
Dreaming on both; for all thy blessed youth
Dress'd in a little brief authority,
Drops earliest to the ground, and so let me.
Duke, I say to thee again, would eat mutton on Fridays. He's not
Duke.
Either now or by remissness new conceiv'd,
Either of condemnation or approof,
Elected him our absence to supply;
Empties itself, as doth an inland brook
Engag'd my friend to his mere enemy,
England?
English out of his wits.
English'd rightly, is 'I am Sir John Falstaff's.'
Enow to press a royal merchant down,
Enrobe the roaring waters with my silks,
Enter'd my house. Antonio, you are welcome;
Entreat some power to change this currish Jew.
Envelop you, good Provost! Who call'd here of late?
Ere sun-rise, prayers from preserved souls,
Ere this rude beast will profit.
Ere thou shalt lose for me one drop of blood.
Ere twice the sun hath made his journal greeting
Err'd in this point which now you censure him,
Even as the flourish when true subjects bow
Even at that time I may be married too.
Even from the gallows did his fell soul fleet,
Even he that had held up the very life
Even in the force and road of casualty.
Even in the lovely garnish of a boy.
Even like an o'ergrown lion in a cave,
Even there where merchants most do congregate,
Even with the stroke and line of his great justice;
Exact the penalty.
Exceed account. But the full sum of me
Exceeds, in that, the lists of all advice
Except to steal your thoughts, my gentle queen.
Express'd and not express'd. But when this ring
Express'd in the condition, let the forfeit
Expresseth his full tilth and husbandry.
Fading in music. That the comparison
Fair Jessica shall be my torch-bearer.                Exeunt
Fair Portia's counterfeit! What demi-god
Fall parti-colour'd lambs, and those were Jacob's.
Falls into forfeit; he arrests him on it,
Falsely to take away a life true made
Falstaff will learn the humour of the age;
Farewell.                                               Exit
Fast bind, fast find-
Faster than gnats in cobwebs. But her eyes-
Faults proper to himself. If he had so offended,
Favours that keep within. Come, Escalus,
Fetching mad bounds, bellowing and neighing loud,
Finding yourself desir'd of such a person
First go with me to church and call me wife,
First, Provost, let me bail these gentle three.
First, never to unfold to any one
Fit thy consent to my sharp appetite;
Fled with a Christian! O my Christian ducats!
Fly toward Belmont. Come, Antonio.                    Exeunt
Follow my heels, Rugby.               Exeunt CAIUS and RUGBY
Followers of Falstaff
For Angelo,
For Gratiano never lets me speak.
For I am much asham'd of my exchange;
For I am sure you can wish none from me;
For I did dream of money-bags to-night.
For I have had such faults; but rather tell me,
For I would commune with you of such things
For Mariana's sake; but as he adjudg'd your brother-
For a light wife doth make a heavy husband,
For all th' accommodations that thou bear'st
For all the world like cutler's poetry
For as I am, I live upon the rack.
For being a little bad; so may my husband.
For better times to come. Friar, advise him;
For by these blessed candles of the night,
For certain words he spake against your Grace
For common justice, y'are as pregnant in
For do but note a wild and wanton herd,
For ending thee no sooner. Thou hast nor youth nor age,
For every pelting petty officer
For fear I surfeit.
For giving it to me. Well, peace be with you!
For half thy wealth, it is Antonio's;
For happy wedlock hours.
For her poor brother's pardon.
For here I read for certain that my ships
For herein Fortune shows herself more kind
For him thou labour'st by thy flight to shun
For his advantage that I dearly love.
For if the Jew do cut but deep enough,
For in my mind you are much bound to him.
For inequality; but let your reason serve
For it appears by manifest proceeding
For it hath cow'd my better part of man!
For lovers ever run before the clock.
For my affection.
For my authority bears a so credent bulk
For my poor brother's head.
For never shall you lie by Portia's side
For princes to come view fair Portia.
For saying nothing; when, I am very sure,
For she is wise, if I can judge of her,
For so I have strew'd it in the common ear,
For such a warped slip of wilderness
For suff'rance is the badge of all our tribe;
For terror, not to use, in time the rod
For testimony whereof, one in the prison,
For that he knew you, might reproach your life,
For that her reputation was disvalued
For that same scrubbed boy, the doctor's clerk,
For that's the utmost of his pilgrimage.        Exit PROVOST
For the close night doth play the runaway,
For the commodity that strangers have
For the four winds blow in from every coast
For the most gentle Claudio.
For thee to fight,
For then I pity those I do not know,
For thine own bowels which do call thee sire,
For this fool gudgeon, this opinion.
For this was of much length- the vile conclusion
For thou dost fear the soft and tender fork
For thou exists on many a thousand grains
For thy complexion shifts to strange effects,
For we are soft as our complexions are,
For we must measure twenty miles to-day.              Exeunt
For what I bid them do; for we bid this be done,
For what thou hast not, still thou striv'st to get,
For which I must not plead, but that I am
For which I would not plead, but that I must;
For which the pardoner himself is in;
For who love I so much? And now who knows
For wooing here until I sweat again,
For you must know we have with special soul
For you shall hence upon your wedding day.
For you to laugh and leap and say you are merry,
For, as I hear, he was much bound for you.
For, as thou urgest justice, be assur'd
For, by this ring, the doctor lay with me.
For, having such a blessing in his lady,
For, if I do, I'll mar the young clerk's pen.
For, if they could, Cupid himself would blush
For, like an ass whose back with ingots bows,
Forbear it, therefore; give your cause to heaven.
Ford differs. To thy great comfort in this mystery of ill
Forerunning more requital.
Forget the shames that you have stain'd me with,
Forgive a moiety of the principal,
Forgive him, Angelo, that brought you home
Forthlight the tilter, and brave Master Shootie the great
Fortune be a woman, she's a good wench for this gear. Father,
Found out the remedy. How would you be
French thrift, you rogues; myself, and skirted page.
Freshly on me. 'Tis surely for a name.
Friend Launcelot, what's the news?
From Lisbon, Barbary, and India,
From Tripolis, from Mexico, and England,
From any dram of mercy.
From brassy bosoms and rough hearts of flint,
From fasting maids, whose minds are dedicate
From flow'ry tenderness? If I must die,
From his true-meant design. Upon his place,
From our faults, as his faults from seeming, free.
From out the state of hellish cruelty!
From stubborn Turks and Tartars, never train'd
From such a filthy vice; say to thyself
From such a noble rate; but my chief care
From the four corners of the earth they come
From the rich Jew, a special deed of gift,
From the true seed of honour! and how much honour
From thine own sister's shame? What should I think?
From which we would not have you warp. Call hither,
From whom he bringeth sensible regreets;
From whom we thought it meet to hide our love
Fully unfold. Thyself and thy belongings
Gaoler, Servants, and other Attendants
Gaoler, look to him.
Garnish'd like him, that for a tricksy word
Garter?
Gave it a judge's clerk! No, God's my judge,
Genoa-
Gentlemen of Windsor
Giddy in spirit, still gazing in a doubt
Gifts of rich value. Yet I have not seen
Give him direction for this merry bond,
Give him the ring, and bring him, if thou canst,
Give him this letter; do it secretly.
Give me your hand and say you will be mine,
Give me your hand, Bassanio; fare you well.
Give me your hand; come you from old Bellario?
Give notice to such men of sort and suit
Give order to my servants that they take
Give up your body to such sweet uncleanness
Give up your keys.
Give us some seats. Come, cousin Angelo;
Gives me this instance. Already he hath carried
Glancing an eye of pity on his losses,
Go fetch him hither; let me look upon him.      Exit PROVOST
Go give him courteous conduct to this place.
Go presently inquire, and so will I,
Go to, then; you come to me, and you say
Go with me to a notary, seal me there
Go, gentlemen,                                Exit LAUNCELOT
Goes all decorum.
Good night to your redress! Is the Duke gone?
Govern'd a wolf who, hang'd for human slaughter,
Governs Lord Angelo, a man whose blood
Grace go with you! Benedicite!                          Exit
Grace of the Duke, revenges to your heart,
Gratiano and Lorenzo. Fare ye well;
Great men may jest with saints: 'tis wit in them;
Grieve not that I am fall'n to this for you,
Grown sere and tedious; yea, my gravity,
Guiltier than him they try. What's open made to justice,
Ha!
Had I as many sons as I have hairs,
Had I been judge, thou shouldst have had ten more,
Had I more name for badness.
Had answer'd for his deed. Now 'tis awake,
Had been her husband, rather than a Christian!-
Had been the very sum of my confession.
Had quite miscarried; I dare be bound again,
Had time coher'd with place, or place with wishing,
Had you been there, I think you would have begg'd
Hail, King of Scotland!
Hang on her temples like a golden fleece,
Hanging and wiving goes by destiny.
Happiest of all is that her gentle spirit
Happy in this, she is not yet so old
Hard food for Midas, I will none of thee;
Harp not on that; nor do not banish reason
Hast thou of me as she is for a wife.
Hast thou or word, or wit, or impudence,
Haste still pays haste, and leisure answers leisure;
Hate counsels not in such a quality.
Hath all his ventures fail'd? What, not one hit?
Hath been most sound; I charge you by the law,
Hath blister'd her report. She is with child;
Hath come so near creation? Move these eyes?
Hath fear'd the valiant; by my love, I swear
Hath full relation to the penalty,
Hath left me gag'd. To you, Antonio,
Hath look'd upon my passes. Then, good Prince,
Hath not a Jew hands, organs, dimensions, senses, affections,
Hath not her fellow.
Hath not the ring upon it; it is gone.
Hath often still'd my brawling discontent.          Exit BOY
Hath sent you here this ring, and doth entreat
Hath set the women on to this complaint.
Hath yet a kind of medicine in itself
Hath yet the deputy sent my brother's pardon?
Have by your wisdom been this day acquitted
Have hent the gates, and very near upon
Have lov'd it too. I would not change this hue,
Have power to bid you welcome. By your leave,
Have, sure, more lack of reason. What would you say?
Having bound up the threat'ning twigs of birch,
He calls again; I pray you answer him.        Exit FRANCISCA
He can command, lets it straight feel the spur;
He did entreat me, past all saying nay,
He doth with holy abstinence subdue
He finds the joys of heaven here on earth;
He hates our sacred nation; and he rails,
He hath but as offended in a dream!
He hath got his friend with child.
He is my brother too. But fitter time for that.
He is your husband on a pre-contract.
He knew me as a wife. As this is true,
He lends out money gratis, and brings down
He loves the gallimaufry. Ford, perpend.
He only lived but till he was a man,
He plies the Duke at morning and at night,
He presently become a Christian;
He says, to veil full purpose.
He seek the life of any citizen,
He seeks my life; his reason well I know:
He shall have merely justice, and his bond.
He shall have nothing but the penalty.
He shall not pass you. Twice have the trumpets sounded;
He should receive his punishment in thanks:
He speak against me on the adverse side,
He stuck them up before the fulsome ewes,
He will not wake.
He would have weigh'd thy brother by himself,
He would not take it. Never did I know
He would not, but by gift of my chaste body
He wrung Bassanio's hand; and so they parted.
He's coming; I perceive 't.
He's not prepar'd for death. Even for our kitchens
He- to give fear to use and liberty,
Hear me yourself; for that which I must speak
Hearing applause and universal shout,
Heaven doth with us as we with torches do,
Heaven forgive me! Why, I'll exhibit a bill in the parliament
Heaven give your spirits comfort!               Exit CLAUDIO
Heaven let me bear it! You granting of my suit,
Heaven shield my mother play'd my father fair!
Hence hath offence his quick celerity,
Henceforth be Earls, the first that ever Scotland
Her brother's ghost his paved bed would break,
Her husband has a marvellous infection to the little page;
Her madness hath the oddest frame of sense,
Her name is Portia- nothing undervalu'd
Her shall you hear disproved to her eyes,
Here are a few of the unpleasant'st words
Here comes Bassanio, your most noble kinsman,
Here comes a man of comfort, whose advice
Here do I choose, and thrive I as I may!
Here dwells my father Jew. Ho! who's within?
Here in the court, of all he dies possess'd
Here in the prison. Do me the common right
Here is Lord Angelo shall give you justice;
Here is a letter; read it at your leisure;
Here to this devil, to deliver you.
Here will we sit and let the sounds of music
Herself the glory of a creditor,
Hiding the grossness with fair ornament?
Highness said even now I made you a duke; good my lord, do not
His act did not o'ertake his bad intent,
His borrowed purse. Well, Jessica, go in;
His dove will prove, his gold will hold,
His filth within being cast, he would appear
His givings-out were of an infinite distance
His glassy essence, like an angry ape,
His head is off and sent to Angelo.
His jewish heart. Therefore, I do beseech you,
His pleasure; may be he will relent. Alas,
His purpose surfeiting, he sends a warrant
His rigorous course; but since he stands obdurate,
His ring I do accept most thankfully,
His sceptre shows the force of temporal power,
His tedious measures with the unbated fire
His wife who wins me by that means I told you,
Hold up your hands, say nothing; I'll speak all.
Hold, therefore, Angelo-
Hooking both right and wrong to th' appetite,
Hoping you'll find good cause to whip them all.
Hourly afflict. Merely, thou art Death's fool;
How Falstaff, varlet vile,
How I have ever lov'd the life removed,
How I may formally in person bear me
How I persuaded, how I pray'd, and kneel'd,
How I shall take her from her father's house;
How could he see to do them? Having made one,
How dear a lover of my lord your husband,
How dost thou like the Lord Bassanio's wife?
How doth that royal merchant, good Antonio?
How far that little candle throws his beams!
How he refell'd me, and how I replied,
How honourable ladies sought my love,
How it goes with us, and do look to know
How like a younker or a prodigal
How like the prodigal doth she return,
How little is the cost I have bestowed
How many be commanded that command!
How many cowards, whose hearts are all as false
How many then should cover that stand bare!
How many things by season season'd are
How might she tongue me! Yet reason dares her no;
How much I have disabled mine estate
How much I was a braggart. When I told you
How much low peasantry would then be gleaned
How much more elder art thou than thy looks!
How much unlike art thou to Portia!
How much unlike my hopes and my deservings!
How much ye would?
How now! what news?
How now! what's the news with you?
How now, Shylock? What news among the merchants?
How now, fair maid?
How now, what noise! That spirit's possess'd with haste
How now, who's there?
How often dost thou with thy case, thy habit,
How shall I know if I do choose the right?
How sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bank!
How to choose right, but then I am forsworn;
How to get clear of all the debts I owe.
How true a gentleman you send relief,
How you do leave me to mine own protection.
How, Simple! Where have you been? I must wait on
Hugg'd and embraced by the strumpet wind;
Hungary's!
I 'gin to be aweary of the sun
I am affianc'd this man's wife as strongly
I am combined by a sacred vow,
I am content, so he will let me have
I am glad 'tis night, you do not look on me,
I am no gibbet for you. Go-a short knife and a throng!-
I am not bid for love; they flatter me;
I am not to his manners. O Lorenzo,
I am not well; send the deed after me
I am not yet instructed.
I am provided of a torch-bearer.
I am sure he had more hair of his tail than I have of my face
I am that Isabella, and his sister.
I am to learn;
I be misconst'red in the place I go to
I bear Antonio, that I follow thus
I bear a charmed life, which must not yield
I believe I know the cause of his withdrawing.
I beseech you, look into Master Froth here, sir, a man of
I bid my very friends and countrymen,
I came to her from Claudio, and desir'd her
I can speak to him, I will open my lips in vain, or discover his
I cannot instantly raise up the gross
I cannot strike at wretched kerns, whose arms
I care not if thou dost for me as much.
I chanced on this letter.
I combat challenge of this latten bilbo.
I come about my brother.
I come by note, to give and to receive.
I come to know your pleasure.
I come to visit the afflicted spirits
I could come to such honour!
I could not do withal. Then I'll repent,
I could not for my heart deny it him.
I crave no other, nor no better man.
I cry you mercy, sir, and well could wish
I dare be sworn for him he would not leave it
I did receive fair speechless messages.
I do arrest your words. Be that you are,
I do beseech you, let it be his fault,
I do in birth deserve her, and in fortunes,
I do is to pleasure you, coz. Can you love the maid?
I do not like the man; had he been lay, my lord,
I drink, I eat, array myself, and live.'
I feel too much thy blessing. Make it less,
I find an apt remission in myself;
I freely told you all the wealth I had
I gave my love a ring, and made him swear
I got a promise of this fair one here
I got possession of Julietta's bed.
I had a brother, then. Heaven keep your honour!
I had myself twenty angels given me this morning; but I
I had rather give my body than my soul.
I hate him for he is a Christian;
I have a father, you a daughter, lost.                  Exit
I have a mind presages me such thrift
I have a motion much imports your good;
I have a servant comes with me along,
I have bethought me of another fault.
I have confess'd her, and I know her virtue.
I have deliver'd to Lord Angelo,
I have engag'd myself to a dear friend,
I have great hope in that; for in her youth
I have hope to Eve, and am prepar'd to die.
I have known my husband; yet my husband
I have no mind of feasting forth to-night;
I have not yet made known to Mariana
I have on Angelo impos'd the office;
I have reserv'd alive.
I have sent twenty out to seek for you.
I have some business.
I have stood by, my lord, and I have heard
I have sworn an oath that I will have my bond.
I have toward heaven breath'd a secret vow
I hold you as a thing enskied and sainted,
I hope it is some pardon or reprieve
I hope you will not mock me with a husband.
I know Anne's mind for that; never a woman in Windsor
I know he will be glad of our success:
I know no law; bring them away.
I know not what. 'Tis the heart, Master Page; 'tis here,
I know you would be prouder of the work
I leave him to your hand. What muffl'd fellow's that?
I look'd toward Birnam, and anon, methought,
I lose your company; therefore forbear a while.
I love thee, and 'tis my love that speaks-
I might in virtues, beauties, livings, friends,
I must away this night toward Padua,
I must be one of these same dumb wise men,
I never more will break an oath with thee.
I never spake with her, saw her, nor heard from her,
I now begin with grief and shame to utter:
I oft deliver'd from his forfeitures
I oft found both. I urge this childhood proof,
I owe the most, in money and in love;
I owe you much; and, like a wilful youth,
I pardon thee thy life before thou ask it.
I pray thee, let us go and find him out,
I pray you be acquainted with this maid;
I pray you show my youth old Shylock's house.
I pray you tell me hath anybody inquir'd for me here to-day. Much
I pray you tell me how my good friend doth.
I pray you, have in mind where we must meet.
I pray you, is my master yet return'd?
I pray you, know me when we meet again;
I prithee, Lucio, do me this kind service:
I pull in resolution and begin
I reason'd with a Frenchman yesterday,
I saw Bassanio and Antonio part.
I saw them at the prison; a saucy friar,
I say! Go, John, go inquire for my master; I doubt he be
I say, a moving grove.
I say, bid come before us, Angelo.         Exit an ATTENDANT
I say, in a lower chair, sir; 'twas in the Bunch of Grapes,
I say, with child, and being great-bellied, and longing, as I
I see thee compass'd with thy kingdom's pearl
I shall attend your leisure; but make haste;
I shall digest it.
I shall obey you in an fair commands.
I sheathe again undeeded. There thou shouldst be;
I shot his fellow of the self-same flight
I should be guiltier than my guiltiness,
I should not see the sandy hour-glass run
I should not think it strange; for 'tis a physic
I should report that which I say I saw,
I something do excuse the thing I hate
I speak too long, but 'tis to peize the time,
I stagger in. But this new governor
I stand for judgment; answer; shall I have it?
I swear to thee, even by thine own fair eyes,
I take it your own business calls on you,
I tell thee, lady, this aspect of mine
I thank thee, Jew, for teaching me that word.
I think, hath appointed them contrary places; for, believe
I thought it was a fault, but knew it not;
I thought upon Antonio when he told me,
I thought your marriage fit; else imputation,
I throw my warlike shield! Lay on, Macduff,
I took 't upon mine honour thou hadst it not.
I view the fight than thou that mak'st the fray.
I was always plain with you, and so now I speak my agitation of
I was beset with shame and courtesy;
I was enforc'd to send it after him;
I will assume desert. Give me a key for this,
I will be bound to pay it ten times o'er
I will be content to be a lawful hangman. I would be glad to
I will become as liberal as you;
I will discuss the humour of this love to Page.
I will encounter darkness as a bride
I will execute; and itshall go hard but I will better the
I will feed fat the ancient grudge I bear him.
I will find you twenty lascivious turtles ere one chaste
I will have more time to prepare me, or they shall beat out my
I will make haste; but, till I come again,
I will not choose what many men desire,
I will not fail her; speak it privately.
I will not shame myself to give you this.
I will proclaim thee, Angelo, look for't.
I will survey th' inscriptions back again.
I will try confusions with him.
I will, as 'twere a brother of your order,
I wish you all the joy that you can wish,
I wish you well, and so I take my leave.
I would be friends with you, and have your love,
I would be trebled twenty times myself,
I would deny it; but you see my finger
I would detain you here some month or two
I would entreat you rather to put on
I would lose all, ay, sacrifice them all
I would not be ambitious in my wish
I would not draw them; I would have my bond.
I would not lose you; and you know yourself
I would not wish them to a fairer death.
I would not- though 'tis my familiar sin
I would o'erstare the sternest eyes that look,
I would prove-
I would say the truth; but to accuse him so,
I would she were in heaven, so she could
I'd throw it down for your deliverance
I'll be with you.
I'll break a custom.  [To BASSANIO]  Is he yet possess'd
I'll die for't but some woman had the ring.
I'll end my exhortation after dinner.
I'll follow him no more with bootless prayers.
I'll have mine action of batt'ry on thee.
I'll have my bond; and therefore speak no more.
I'll have no speaking; I will have my bond.             Exit
I'll have that doctor for mine bedfellow.
I'll lend you all my life to do you service.
I'll lend you thus much moneys'?
I'll ne'er be drunk whilst I live again, but in honest,
I'll not be made a soft and dull-ey'd fool,
I'll not deny him anything I have,
I'll pay it instantly with all my heart.
I'll perfect him withal; and he shall bring you
I'll pray a thousand prayers for thy death,
I'll privily away. I love the people,
I'll prove a tyrant to him. As for you,
I'll prove the lie thou speak'st.
I'll prove the prettier fellow of the two,
I'll rather dwell in my necessity.
I'll send him certain word of my success.
I'll stay no longer question.
I'll take it as a peril to my soul
I'll tell him of you.
I'll tell him yet of Angelo's request,
I'll tell thee more of this another time.
I'll then nor give nor hazard aught for lead.
I'll watch as long for you then. Approach;
I, in probation of a sisterhood,
I, now the voice of the recorded law,
If He, which is the top of judgment, should
If Hercules and Lichas play at dice
If I can catch him once upon the hip,
If I do fail in fortune of my choice,
If I do lose thee, I do lose a thing
If I do not put on a sober habit,
If I forgive him!
If I pervert your course. Who's here?
If I would yield him my virginity
If any woman wrong'd by this lewd fellow-
If e'er the Jew her father come to heaven,
If he be less, he's nothing; but he's more,
If he had been as you, and you as he,
If he should break his day, what should I gain
If he were known alive?
If he will take it, so; if not, adieu;
If it be proved against an alien
If law, authority, and power, deny not,
If not a fedary but only he
If not already.
If power change purpose, what our seemers be.         Exeunt
If she be mad, as I believe no other,
If she were by to hear you make the offer.
If so your heart were touch'd with that remorse
If that be sin, I'll make it my morn prayer
If that the youth of my new int'rest here
If the first that did th' edict infringe
If they but hear perchance a trumpet sound,
If they deny him justice. Twenty merchants,
If they should speak, would almost damn those ears
If this which he avouches does appear,
If this will not suffice, it must appear
If thou beest rated by thy estimation,
If thou best slain and with no stroke of mine,
If thou keep promise, I shall end this strife,
If thou wert near a lewd interpreter!
If thou wilt lend this money, lend it not
If worthier friends had not prevented me.
If yet her brother's pardon be come hither;
If you advise it.
If you be one, as you are well express'd
If you choose that wherein I am contain'd,
If you choose that, then I am yours withal.
If you deny it, let the danger light
If you deny me, fie upon your law!
If you did know for whom I gave the ring,
If you did know to whom I gave the ring,
If you do love me, you will find me out.
If you do not, if I be left alone,
If you had pleas'd to have defended it
If you poison us, do we not die? And if you wrong us, shall we
If you repay me not on such a day,
If you will hang me for it, you may; but I had rather it would
If you would walk in absence of the sun.
If you'll implore it, that will free your life,
Imagine howling- 'tis too horrible.
Immediate sentence then, and sequent death,
Immediately to leave you and be gone.
Implore her, in my voice, that she make friends
In a neat's tongue dried, and a maid not vendible.
In action all of precept, he did show me
In all his dressings, characts, titles, forms,
In any chastisement. I for a while will leave you;
In base appliances. This outward-sainted deputy,
In bearing thus the absence of your lord.
In both my eyes he doubly sees himself,
In corporal sufferance finds a pang as great
In countenance! Heaven shield your Grace from woe,
In doing courtesies; and one in whom
In each eye one; swear by your double self,
In end of autumn turned to the rams;
In faith, I gave it to the judge's clerk.
In graces, and in qualities of breeding;
In hand, and hope of action; but we do learn,
In hateful practice. First, his integrity
In her imagin'd person.
In law, what plea so tainted and corrupt
In levity. Since which time of five years
In lieu of this, last night did lie with me.
In love and service to you evermore.
In making question of my uttermost
In measure rain thy joy, scant this excess!
In our remove be thou at full ourself;
In place of Lord Bassanio and myself.
In precise guards! Dost thou think, Claudio,
In profiting by them. Nay, call us ten times frail;
In purchasing the semblance of my soul
In reason he should never come to heaven.
In self-same manner doth accuse my husband;
In special business from his Holiness.
In speed to Padua; see thou render this
In stamps that are forbid; 'tis all as easy
In such a place, such sum or sums as are
In such an honor named. What's more to do,
In summer, where the ways are fair enough.
In that good path that I would wish it go,
In that he did the thing for which he died;
In the Rialto you have rated me
In the unshrinking station where he fought,
In this I'll be impartial; be you judge
In thrilling region of thick-ribbed ice;
In underprizing it, so far this shadow
In way of marriage; therefore be advis'd.
In what part of your body pleaseth me.
In which predicament, I say, thou stand'st;
In your retirement, I had swing'd him soundly.
Indies, and I will trade to them both. Go, bear thou this
Infus'd itself in thee; for thy desires
Injurious world! Most damned Angelo!
Intended 'gainst Lord Angelo- came I hither
Intends you for his swift ambassador,
Intents but merely thoughts.
Into a manly stride; and speak of frays
Into my cousin's hands, Doctor Bellario;
Into the main of waters. Music! hark!
Into the trunks of men. Thy currish spirit
Is all the grace I beg.
Is an unlesson'd girl, unschool'd, unpractis'd;
Is dearly bought, 'tis mine, and I will have it.
Is fit for treasons, stratagems, and spoils;
Is he pardon'd; and for your lovely sake,
Is it not strange and strange?
Is like a villain with a smiling cheek,
Is more to bread than stone. Hence shall we see,
Is not so estimable, profitable neither,
Is nothing kin to foul redemption.
Is now converted. But now I was the lord
Is sad to think upon his merchandise.
Is still a dying horror!
Is sum of something which, to term in gross,
Is that my prize? Are my deserts no better?
Is that temptation that doth goad us on
Is the fair hand that writ.
Is thick inlaid with patines of bright gold;
Is this the man that you did tell us of?
Is this the witness, friar?
Is to come fairly off from the great debts
Is true and false; and what he, with his oath
Is very snow-broth, one who never feels
Is't like that lead contains her? 'Twere damnation
Is't not a kind of incest to take life
Is't not enough thou hast suborn'd these women
Is, like a good thing being often read,
Issuing life-blood. But is it true, Salerio?
It blesseth him that gives and him that takes.
It comes from Padua, from Bellario;
It doth appear you are a worthy judge;
It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven
It hath no end.
It is Lord Angelo.
It is an attribute to God himself;
It is enacted in the laws of Venice,
It is enthroned in the hearts of kings,
It is no sin at all, but charity.
It is the law, not I condemn your brother.
It looks a little paler; 'tis a day
It must appear in other ways than words,
It should be thus with him. He must die to-morrow.
It was the swift celerity of his death,
It wearies me; you say it wearies you;
It will be for his gentle daughter's sake;
It will go hard with poor Antonio.
Italy have a fairer table which doth offer to swear upon a book- I
JOHN FALSTAFF.'
Jew is forfeit; and since, in paying it, it is impossible I
Jew is the very devil incarnation; and, in my conscience, my
Jew my master. The fiend is at mine elbow and tempts me, saying
Joint by joint, but we will know his purpose.
Joy to you, Mariana! Love her, Angelo;
Julietta with child.
Just of his colour. What if we do omit
Justice! the law! My ducats and my daughter!
Keep me in patience; and, with ripened time,
King.
Kneel down before him, hang upon his gown;
Knock there, and ask your heart what it doth know
Know him I shall, I am well sure of it.
Know you that Friar Lodowick that she speaks of?
Knows not that ever he knew me.
Labouring to save his life, and would not rather
Lastly,
Launcelot, the Jew's man, and I am sure Margery your wife is my
Launcelot, thou art mine own flesh and blood. Lord worshipp'd
Launcelot?
Lay by all nicety and prolixious blushes
Lead our first battle. Worthy Macduff and we
Lean, rent, and beggar'd by the strumpet wind!
Lend me your knees, and all my life to come
Lent him our terror, dress'd him with our love,
Lest thou a feverous life shouldst entertain,
Let all of his complexion choose me so.               Exeunt
Let but your honour know,
Let fall thy blade on vulnerable crests;
Let fortune go to hell for it, not I.
Let her have needful but not lavish means;
Let him be sent for.
Let him be whipt and hang'd.
Let him not die. My brother had but justice,
Let his deservings, and my love withal,
Let it not enter in your mind of love;
Let it not sound a thought upon your tongue
Let it presage the ruin of your love,
Let me excuse me, and believe me so,
Let me have judgment, and the Jew his will.
Let me in safety raise me from my knees,
Let me intreat you speak the former language.
Let mine own judgment pattern out my death,
Let music sound while he doth make his choice;
Let no such man be trusted. Mark the music.
Let not the sound of shallow fopp'ry enter
Let there be some more test made of my metal,
Let us be beaten if we cannot fight.
Let us be keen, and rather cut a little
Let's see once more this saying grav'd in gold:
Let's write 'good angel' on the devil's horn;
Lie all unlock'd to your occasions.
Lie hid moe thousand deaths; yet death we fear,
Lie not a night from home; watch me like Argus;
Lies all within. Deliver me the key;
Life's but a walking shadow, a poor player
Like Sir Actaeon he, with Ringwood at thy heels.
Like a fine bragging youth; and tell quaint lies,
Like a true friar. Moe reasons for this action
Like doth quit like, and Measure still for Measure.
Like man new made.
Like one of two contending in a prize,
Like one well studied in a sad ostent
Like rats that ravin down their proper bane,
Like signiors and rich burghers on the flood,
Live in thy tongue and heart. Old Escalus,
Live thou, I live. With much much more dismay
Lives not to act another. Be satisfied;
Lock up my doors, and when you hear the drum,
Longer or shorter, he may be so fitted
Look forward on the journey you shall go.
Look that you love your wife; her worth worth yours.
Look to my house. I am right loath to go;
Look you speak justly.
Look, here comes one; a gentlewoman of mine,
Look, here's the warrant, Claudio, for thy death;
Look, if it please you, on this man condemn'd,
Looks in a glass that shows what future evils-
Lord Angelo hath to the public ear
Lord Angelo, having affairs to heaven,
Lord's sake.'
Lorenzo and his amorous Jessica;
Lorenzo, I commit into your hands
Lorenzo, who is thy new master's guest.
Made me a looker-on here in Vienna,
Make no moe offers, use no farther means,
Make rash remonstrance of my hidden pow'r
Make thee the father of their idle dream,
Make us pay down for our offence by weight
Making both it unable for itself
Making them lightest that wear most of it;
Many that have at times made moan to me;
Mark what I say, which you shall find
Master Copperspur, and Master Starvelackey, the rapier and dagger
Master Froth here, this very man, having eaten the rest, as I
Master Froth, and you will hang them. Get you gone, and let me
Master Froth, look upon his honour; 'tis for a good purpose. Doth
Master Launcelot.
Master Page, fidelicet Master Page; and there is myself,
Master Parson, who writes himself 'Armigero' in any bill,
Master Rash; he's in for a commodity of brown paper and old
Matters of needful value. We shall write to you,
May call it back again. Well, believe this:
May in the sworn twelve have a thief or two
May not extend so far as to the lady;
May seem as shy, as grave, as just, as absolute,
May stand more proper, my eye shall be the stream
May turn by fortune from the weaker band.
Meantime, the court shall hear Bellario's letter.
Medea gathered the enchanted herbs
Meetest for death; the weakest kind of fruit
Men give like gods; but when they weep and kneel,
Mercury.
Mercy is not itself that oft looks so;
Mercy to thee would prove itself a bawd;
Methinks I see a quick'ning in his eye.
Methinks it should have power to steal both his,
Methinks it sounds much sweeter than by day.
Methoughts you said you neither lend nor borrow
Michaelmas?
Might in the times to come have ta'en revenge,
Might there not be a charity in sin
Mine own, I would say; but if mine, then yours,
Mine were the very cipher of a function,
Misfortune to my ventures, out of doubt,
Miss that which one unworthier may attain,
Mistress Anne Page; but notwithstanding that, I know
Mistress Kate Keepdown was with child by him in the Duke's time;
Mistress of passion, sways it to the mood
More fit to do another such offence
More grave and wrinkled than the aims and ends
More guarded than his fellows'; see it done.
More hateful to mine ear.
More than a lodg'd hate and a certain loathing
More than our brother is our chastity.
More than the wild-cat; drones hive not with me,
Morocco, who brings word the Prince his master will be here
Mortality and mercy in Vienna
Most audible, even from his proper tongue,
Most ignorant of what he's most assur'd,
Most wrongfully accus'd your substitute;
Must either punish me, not being believ'd,
Must give- for what? For lead? Hazard for lead!
Must have a word anon. Lay hold on him.
Must needs appear offence.
Must needs be like my lord. If it be so,
Must needs give sentence 'gainst the merchant there.
Must not be measured by his worth, for then
Must yield to such inevitable shame
My Lord Bassanio, upon more advice,
My absolute power and place here in Vienna,
My best esteem'd acquaintance; hie thee, go.
My body up to shame.
My clerk hath some good comforts too for you.
My conscience says 'No; take heed, honest Launcelot, take heed,
My eyes, my lord, can look as swift as yours:
My friend Stephano, signify, I pray you,
My honour would not let ingratitude
My lodging out.  [To a SERVANT]  Give him a livery
My maid Nerissa and myself meantime
My master's a very Jew. Give him a present! Give him a halter. I
My mind was never yet more mercenary.
My mirth it much displeas'd, but pleas'd my woe.
My mistress will before the break of day
My name is Corporal Nym; I speak, and I avouch;
My patience here is touch'd. I do perceive
My patience to his fury, and am arm'd
My purpose was not to have seen you here;
My purse, my person, my extremest means,
My ships come home a month before the day.            Exeunt
My sisterly remorse confutes mine honour,
My sober house. By Jacob's staff, I swear
My soul upon the forfeit, that your lord
My state was nothing, I should then have told you
My strength can give you; then no more remains
My unsoil'd name, th' austereness of my life,
My ventures are not in one bottom trusted,
My voice is in my sword, thou bloodier villain
My vouch against you, and my place i' th' state,
My wife and children's ghosts will haunt me still.
My words express my purpose.
Myself and what is mine to you and yours
Nature dispenses with the deed so far
Nature hath fram'd strange fellows in her time:
Nay more, while grace is saying hood mine eyes
Nay, it is ten times true; for truth is truth
Ne'er issu'd from his blood. Take my defiance;
Nearest the merchant's heart. Be merciful.
Neither have I money nor commodity
Nerissa and the rest, stand all aloof;
Nerissa teaches me what to believe:
Nerissa there her clerk. Lorenzo here
Never to part with it, and here he stands;
Never to speak to lady afterward
New come from Padua.
Nips youth i' th' head, and follies doth enew
No bed shall e'er be guilty of my stay,
No better a musician than the wren.
No ceremony that to great ones longs,
No countermand; no such example have we.
No earthly mean to save him but that either
No higher than thyself, the judge's clerk;
No longer session hold upon my shame,
No longer staying but to give the Mother
No masque to-night; the wind is come about;
No more pertains to me, my lord, than you.
No note at all of our being absent hence;
No woman had it, but a civil doctor,
No word to save thee.
No, not for Venice.
No, not my body, nor my husband's bed.
No, not the hangman's axe, bear half the keenness
No; I would tell what 'twere to be a judge
Nor do I now make moan to be abridg'd
Nor do I think the man of safe discretion
Nor here provincial. My business in this state
Nor is not mov'd with concord of sweet sounds,
Nor is the wide world ignorant of her worth;
Nor need you, on mine honour, have to do
Nor none of thee, thou pale and common drudge
Nor pluck it from his finger for the wealth
Nor rest be interposer 'twixt us twain.               Exeunt
Nor shall not now; for in companions
Nor thrust your head into the public street
Nor to one place; nor is my whole estate
Nor well, unless in mind; his letter there
Nor wish'd to hold my peace.
Nor you, Lorenzo; Jessica, nor you.        [A tucket sounds]
Not I, but my affairs, have made you wait.
Not as fee. Grant me two things, I pray you,
Not changing heart with habit, I am still
Not learning more than the fond eye doth teach;
Not light them for themselves; for if our virtues
Not scurvy, nor a temporary meddler,
Not she; nor doth she tempt; but it is I
Not that, I hope, which you receiv'd of me.
Not the king's crown nor the deputed sword,
Not to be weary with you, he's in prison.
Not to deny me, and to pardon me.
Not to deny this imposition,
Nothing but thunder. Merciful Heaven,
Nothing goes right; we would, and we would not.         Exit
Notice of my affair. I humbly thank you.
Notice to Escalus and Angelo,
Now lays upon you.
Now make your choice.
Now puts the drowsy and neglected act
Now took your brother's life; or, to redeem him,
Now will I write letters to Angelo-
Now, Balthasar,
Now, by mine honour which is yet mine own,
Now, good my lord, give me the scope of justice;
Now, infidel, I have you on the hip.
Now, sir, what news?
Nym; or else you had look'd through the grate, like a
O Isabel, will you not lend a knee?
O cunning enemy, that, to catch a saint,
O faithless coward! O dishonest wretch!
O happy torment, when my torturer
O heaven, the vanity of wretched fools!
O love, be moderate, allay thy ecstasy,
O my Antonio, I do know of these
O my Antonio, had I but the means
O sinful thought! Never so rich a gem
O that estates, degrees, and offices,
O wise young judge, how I do honour thee!
O worthy Prince, dishonour not your eye
O, odious is the name!
O, then be bold to say Bassanio's dead!
O, these deliberate fools! When they do choose,
O, what a goodly outside falsehood hath!
OFFICERS with MISTRESS OVERDONE]  Provost, my brother Angelo will
Obscures the show of evil? In religion,
Of Ragozine, more like to Claudio?
Of a poor worm. Thy best of rest is sleep,
Of a strange fever. Upon his mere request-
Of an unthrifty knave, and presently
Of any constant man. What, worse and worse!
Of burning youth.
Of double ducats, stol'n from me by my daughter!
Of forfeiture, of justice, and his bond.
Of full three thousand ducats. What of that?
Of godlike amity, which appears most strongly
Of gracious order, late come from the See
Of greatest port, have all persuaded with him;
Of grievous penalties; in lieu whereof
Of his return. He answered 'Do not so;
Of lineaments, of manners, and of spirit,
Of merchant-marring rocks?
Of my conception. The state whereon I studied
Of my dear friend. What should I say, sweet lady?
Of necessary fitness?
Of one poor scruple; nay, if the scale do turn
Of our own power. What think you of it?
Of outward order; this we came not to,
Of palsied eld; and when thou art old and rich,
Of sacred chastity and of promise-breach,
Of starved people.
Of such misery doth she cut me off.
Of the Duke only, 'gainst all other voice.
Of the all-binding law; and that there were
Of the defendant; and thou hast incurr'd
Of the right casket, never in my life
Of these events at full. Let us go in,
Of this dead butcher and his fiend-like queen,
Of this fair mansion, master of my servants,
Of those that lawless and incertain thought
Of thrice three times the value of this bond.
Of thy sharp envy. Can no prayers pierce thee?
Of usance for my moneys, and you'll not hear me.
Of what it likes or loathes. Now, for your answer:
Of wide Arabia are as throughfares now
Of wisdom, gravity, profound conceit;
Of wondrous virtues. Sometimes from her eyes
Of your commissions.
Of your fair flesh, to be cut off and taken
Of your own cause.
On forfeit of my hands, my head, my heart;
On him so near us? This needs must be a practice.
On me, my bargains, and my well-won thrift,
On mine own sword? Whiles I see lives, the gashes
On twenty bloody blocks, he'd yield them up
On whom it will not, so; yet still 'tis just.
Once stir my temper; but this virtuous maid
One Ragozine, a most notorious pirate,
One all of luxury, an ass, a madman!
One drop of Christian blood, thy lands and goods
One half of me is yours, the other half yours-
One of our covent, and his confessor,
One of these three contains her heavenly picture.
One that is a prisoner nine years old.
One that is well-nigh worn to pieces with age to show
Only attended by Nerissa here,
Only for propagation of a dow'r
Only for this, I pray you, pardon me.
Only my blood speaks to you in my veins;
Only to stick it in their children's sight
Only, this one: Lord Angelo is precise;
Or I am much deceiv'd, of Portia.
Or any air of music touch their ears,
Or any kind of light,
Or as it were the pageants of the sea-
Or bring your latter hazard back again
Or else for ever be confixed here,
Or else he must not only die the death,
Or else my sword, with an unbatter'd edge,
Or else thou art suborn'd against his honour
Or else thou diest to-morrow.
Or go to bed now, being two hours to day.
Or half her worthiness that gave the ring,
Or he shall pay for this.
Or hollowly put on.
Or in his eminence that fills it up,
Or is your gold and silver ewes and rams?
Or less than a just pound- be it but so much
Or of the deadly seven it is the least.
Or race of youthful and unhandled colts,
Or seem so, craftily; and that's not good.
Or shall I think in silver she's immur'd,
Or stones, whose rate are either rich or poor
Or swear before you choose, if you choose wrong,
Or that the resolute acting of our blood
Or the division of the twentieth part
Or whether riding on the balls of mine
Or whether that the body public be
Or wring redress from you. Hear me, O, hear me, here!
Or your own honour to contain the ring,
Or, by the affection that now guides me most,
Or, if you show your face, you must not speak.
Or, with an outstretch'd throat, I'll tell the world aloud
Our city's institutions, and the terms
Our corn's to reap, for yet our tithe's to sow.       Exeunt
Our haste from hence is of so quick condition
Our house is hell; and thou, a merry devil,
Our masquing mates by this time for us stay.
Our old and faithful friend, we are glad to see you.
Out of his envy's reach, I do oppose
Outbrave the heart most daring on the earth,
Over your threshold; moneys is your suit.
Owe and succeed thy weakness.
PETER. It shall be speeded well.                  Exit FRIAR
PISTOL. He hath studied her well, and translated her will out
Page's wife acquainted each other how they love me?
Page, which is daughter to Master George Page, which is
Page.
Page.
Page.
Page; and the letter is to desire and require her to solicit
Painted upon a pole, and underwrit,
Pardon is still the nurse of second woe.
Pardon this fault, and by my soul I swear
Parted with sugar breath; so sweet a bar
Partly for that her promised proportions
Parts from this finger, then parts life from hence;
Parts that become thee happily enough,
Pawn'd with the other; for the poor rude world
Pay him six thousand, and deface the bond;
Peace, ho! The moon sleeps with Endymion,
Peering in maps for ports, and piers, and roads;
Perhaps I will return immediately.
Persuade this rude wretch willingly to die.
Pick'd from the chaff and ruin of the times,
Plays such fantastic tricks before high heaven
Please but your honour hear me.
Pluck the young sucking cubs from the she-bear,
Plucking the grass to know where sits the wind,
Portia, adieu! I have too griev'd a heart
Pray you take note of it; and when you have
Prefix'd by Angelo. See this be done,
Presenting me a schedule! I will read it.
Proceed to judgment. By my soul I swear
Proceeded to you; therefore take your honours.
Proclaim an enshielded beauty ten times louder
Proclaim it, Provost, round about the city,
Proclaim you are no less. Can you so stead me
Producing forth the cruel ministers
Profess'd the contrary.
Pronounce a sentence on your brother's life;
Provost, how came it Claudio was beheaded
Provost.
Psalm to the tune of 'Greensleeves.' What tempest, I trow,
Put them in secret holds, both Barnardine and Claudio.
Puts bars between the owners and their rights;
Queen o'er myself; and even now, but now,
Quick Cupid's post that comes so mannerly.
Quit their own part, and in obsequious fondness
Ran in my veins- I was a gentleman;
Rating myself at nothing, you shall see
Reason for his precisian, he admits him not for his counsellor.
Release my brother; and, after much debatement,
Rely upon it till my tale be heard,
Remaining in the coffer of her friends.
Remit thy other forfeits. Take him to prison;
Renowned suitors, and her sunny locks
Repair thy wit, good youth, or it will fall
Repent but you that you shall lose your friend,
Repented o'er his doom.
Reprieve thee from thy fate, it should proceed.
Return him here again. Go with him, Provost.
Return in haste, for I do feast to-night
Reveal yourself to him.
Revenge. If a Christian wrong a Jew, what should his sufferance
Ring the alarum bell! Blow, wind! Come, wrack!
Rogues, hence, avaunt! vanish like hailstones, go;
Run with these false, and most contrarious quest
SHALLOW following]  Cavaleiro Justice, I say.
Sackerson loose twenty times, and have taken him by the
Sail like my pinnace to these golden shores.
Save that his riotous youth, with dangerous sense,
Save that we do the denunciation lack
Say I will come.
Say how I lov'd you; speak me fair in death;
Say this:
Say what you can: my false o'erweighs your true.        Exit
Say, by this token, I desire his company
Say, wast thou e'er contracted to this woman?
See me in talk with thee.
See to my house, left in the fearful guard
See you the fornicatress be remov'd;
Seem they in motion? Here are sever'd lips,
Seems bruited. Let me find him, Fortune!
Send after the Duke, and appeal to him.
Servile to all the skyey influences,
Setting it up to fear the birds of prey,
Shall I attend your lordship?
Shall I bend low and, in a bondman's key,
Shall I lay perjury upon my soul?
Shall lose a hair through Bassanio's fault.
Shall seize one half his goods; the other half
Shall she be placed in my constant soul.
Shall take upon 's what else remains to do,
Shall thereby be the sweeter. Reason thus with life.
Shall we desire to raze the sanctuary,
Shall with my cousin, your right noble son,
Shall witness I set forth as soon as you,
Shall witness to him I am near at home,
She comes to do you good.
She hath been a suitor to me for her brother,
She hath the stones upon her and the ducats.'
She is not bred so dull but she can learn;
She speaks this in th' infirmity of sense.
She that accuses him of fornication,
She would not hold out enemy for ever
She's very near her hour.
She, Claudio, that you wrong'd, look you restore.
Shed thou no blood, nor cut thou less nor more
Shortcake upon Allhallowmas last, a fortnight afore
Should die for ever.
Should fall as Jacob's hire, the ewes, being rank,
Should see salvation; we do pray for mercy,
Should she kneel down in mercy of this fact,
Should slip so grossly, both in the heat of blood
Should sunder such sweet friends. Here in her hairs
Show your wisdom, daughter, in your close patience,
Showing we would not spare heaven as we love it,
Shylock and you, sir: you have the grace of God, sir, and he hath
Shylock thy master spoke with me this day,
Shylock, the world thinks, and I think so too,
Sign me a present pardon for my brother
Signifying nothing.
Signior Lucio, did not you say you knew that Friar Lodowick to be
Since I am put to know that your own science
Since I suppose we are made to be no stronger
Since he hath got the jewel that I loved,
Since nought so stockish, hard, and full of rage,
Since that the trade and profit of the city
Since you are dear bought, I will love you dear.
Since you do take it, love, so much at heart.
Sir John affects thy wife.
Sirrah, thou art said to have a stubborn soul,
Sit like his grandsire cut in alabaster,
Sit with my cousin; lend him your kind pains
Sit, Jessica. Look how the floor of heaven
Sith 'twas my fault to give the people scope,
Sith that the justice of your title to him
Slander her love, and he forgave it her.
Sleep when he wakes, and creep into the jaundice
Slubber not business for my sake, Bassanio,
Snail-slow in profit, and he sleeps by day
So are those crisped snaky golden locks
So can I give no reason, nor I will not,
So every scope by the immoderate use
So fare you well till we shall meet again.
So for this time, Pompey, fare you well.
So great a day as this is cheaply bought.
So happy is your brother.
So is Alcides beaten by his page;
So keen and greedy to confound a man.
So let me find thee still. Take this same letter,
So likely an ambassador of love.
So long that nineteen zodiacs have gone round
So much besmear it. Pardon me, good lady;
So play the foolish throngs with one that swoons;
So says the bond; doth it not, noble judge?
So shines a good deed in a naughty world.
So sore as keeping safe Nerissa's ring.               Exeunt
So stinkingly depending? Go mend, go mend.
So strange, outrageous, and so variable,
So thanks to all at once and to each one,
So to enforce or qualify the laws
So to offend him still. This night's the time
So vulgarly and personally accus'd-
So will I never be; so may you miss me;
So, bring us to our palace, where we'll show
So, thrice-fair lady, stand I even so,
Some dear friend dead, else nothing in the world
Some mark of virtue on his outward parts.
Some men there are love not a gaping pig;
Some rise by sin, and some by virtue fall;
Some run from breaks of ice, and answer none,
Some that are mad if they behold a cat;
Some that will evermore peep through their eyes,
Some welcome for the mistress of the house.
Something too liberal. Pray thee, take pain
Songs and Sonnets here.
Spits in the face of heaven, is no bar
Splits the unwedgeable and gnarled oak
Stamp'd in gold; but that's insculp'd upon.
Stand like the forfeits in a barber's shop,
Stand more for number than for accompt.
Stands at a guard with envy; scarce confesses
Stands without blemish; next, it imports no reason
Stealing her soul with many vows of faith,
Still have I borne it with a patient shrug,
Still quiring to the young-ey'd cherubins;
Stol'n by my daughter! Justice! Find the girl;
Stood Dido with a willow in her hand
Straight shall our nuptial rites be solemniz'd;
Subdues me quite. Ever till now,
Such a dependency of thing on thing,
Such as I am. Though for myself alone
Such as move men; beside, she hath prosperous art
Such as the day is when the sun is hid.
Such goodness of your justice that our soul
Such harmony is in immortal souls,
Such sense that my sense breeds with it.- Fare you well.
Supply me with the habit, and instruct me
Supply your present wants, and take no doit
Sweet Isabel, do yet but kneel by me;
Sweet Portia, welcome.
Take heed, ere summer comes, or cuckoo birds do sing.
Take heed, have open eye, for thieves do foot by night;
Take him hence; to th' rack with him! We'll touze you
Take leave of thy old master, and inquire
Take some remembrance of us, as a tribute,
Take then thy bond, take thou thy pound of flesh;
Take thrice thy money; bid me tear the bond.
Take thy commission.
Takes note of what is done, and, like a prophet,
Talk with respect, and swear but now and then,
Tapster?
Tarry you a little-a-while.                        [Writes]
Tell Master Parson Evans I will do what I can for your
Tell her the process of Antonio's end;
Tell me once more what title thou dost bear.
Tell thee, Macduff was from his mother's womb
Tester I'll have in pouch when thou shalt lack,
Th' impression of keen whips I'd wear as rubies,
Th' offence pardons itself. Dear Isabel,
Th' one has my pity; not a jot the other,
Than a perpetual honour. Dar'st thou die?
Than any is in hell.
Than any that draws breath in Italy.
Than at the strangeness of it.
Than beauty could, display'd. But mark me:
Than customary bounty can enforce you.
Than die for this.
Than fall and bruise to death. Alas! this gentleman,
Than faults may shake our frames, let me be bold.
Than if you had made waste of all I have.
Than in Lord Angelo.
Than is her custom. It is still her use
Than is thy strange apparent cruelty;
Than let him so be lost. O most kind maid,
Than my faint means would grant continuance;
Than my heart cool with mortifying groans.
Than terms can give thee out!                    They fight.
Than that a sister, by redeeming him,
Than that which lives to fear. Make it your comfort,
Than the soft myrtle. But man, proud man,
Than this is all as true as it is strange;
Than to be under sail and gone to-night.              Exeunt
Than to demand what 'tis. Your brother cannot live.
Than to live still, and write mine epitaph.
Than twenty times the value of the sum
Than woman's lightness? Having waste ground enough,
Than you expect. Unseal this letter soon;
Than young Alcides when he did redeem
Thanks, Provost, for thy care and secrecy;
Thanks, good friend Escalus, for thy much goodness;
That Angelo is an adulterous thief,
That Angelo's a murderer, is't not strange?
That Angelo's forsworn, is it not strange?
That I am touch'd with madness. Make not impossible
That I crave death more willingly than mercy;
That I desire to hear her speak again,
That I had been forsworn. Beshrew your eyes!
That I have much ado to know myself.
That I shall hardly spare a pound of flesh
That I should do what I abhor to name,
That I should neither sell, nor give, nor lose it.
That I should questionless be fortunate.
That I was worse than nothing; for indeed
That I, your vassal have employ'd and pain'd
That age, ache, penury, and imprisonment,
That all the eanlings which were streak'd and pied
That apprehends no further than this world,
That banish what they sue for; redeem thy brother
That bear in them one and the self-same tongue
That bears the name of life? Yet in this life
That brain'd my purpose. But peace be with him!
That by direct or indirect attempts
That calls upon us, by the grace of Grace
That comes to hazard for my worthless self.
That creep into the dreaming bridegroom's ear
That curtsy to them, do them reverence,
That did renew old AEson.
That do converse and waste the time together,
That does affect it. Once more, fare you well.
That dost this habitation where thou keep'st
That doth sustain my house; you take my life
That ever blotted paper! Gentle lady,
That ever kept with men.
That fled the snares of watchful tyranny,
That for the fault's love is th' offender friended.
That from the seedness the bare fallow brings
That goes not out to prey. Now, as fond fathers,
That have of late so huddled on his back-
That have stood by and seen our wishes prosper
That he did owe him; and I know, my lord,
That he did pace them first? All things that are
That he would rather have Antonio's flesh
That his blood flows, or that his appetite
That his soul sicken not.
That holds this present question in the court?
That in a gondola were seen together
That in himself which he spurs on his pow'r
That in the course of justice none of us
That in your knowledge may by me be done,
That indirectly, and directly too,
That is now answer'd.
That is thy means to live. Do thou but think
That is your part. Yet I am advis'd to do it;
That is, a woman; if you be more, you're none;
That is, were I under the terms of death,
That issue out of dust. Happy thou art not;
That it becomes a virtue.
That it prefers itself, and leaves unquestion'd
That justice seizes. What knows the laws
That keep the word of promise to our ear
That lately stole his daughter-
That lies like truth. "Fear not, till Birnam Wood
That life is better life, past fearing death,
That longing have been sick for, ere I'd yield
That make her good? O, let her brother live!
That makes his opening with this bigger key;
That makes these odds all even.
That malice bears down truth. And, I beseech you,
That men shall swear I have discontinued school
That modesty may more betray our sense
That my Nerissa shall be sworn on is,
That no particular scandal once can touch
That none but fools would keep. A breath thou art,
That only to stand high in your account
That outward courtesies would fain proclaim
That patter with us in a double sense,
That perish'd by the way. Thoughts are no subjects;
That purpose merriment. But fare you well;
That respites me a life whose very comfort
That sets them on. Let me have way, my lord,
That shall be rack'd, even to the uttermost,
That shall be up at heaven and enter there
That she did give me, whose posy was
That she is issue to a faithless Jew.
That should by private order else have died,
That skins the vice o' th' top. Go to your bosom,
That slew the Sophy and a Persian prince,
That souls of animals infuse themselves
That speak my salutation in their minds,
That stays upon me; whose persuasion is
That steals the colour from Bassanio's cheek:
That strike beside us.
That struts and frets his hour upon the stage
That such a thing bechanc'd would make me sad?
That the world masters. Now, in faith, Gratiano,
That therefore only are reputed wise
That they did give the rings away to men;
That they shall think we are accomplished
That they'll not show their teeth in way of smile
That thieves do pass on thieves? 'Tis very pregnant,
That thinks he hath done well in people's eyes,
That this same paper brings you.
That thou but leadest this fashion of thy malice
That thou neglect me not with that opinion
That thus can make him bite the law by th' nose
That to th' observer doth thy history
That took away the match from Isabel,
That took some pains in writing, he begg'd mine;
That want no ear but yours.
That was not born of woman? Such a one
That we may bring you something on the way.
That we remember. There is our commission,
That which I owe is lost; but if you please
That which but seems unlike: 'tis not impossible
That with such vehemency he should pursue
That won three fields of Sultan Solyman,
That wounds th' unsisting postern with these strokes.
That yet can do thee office? If thou hast,
That you extol me thus?
That you have slander'd so?
That you shall stifle in your own report,
That you to-day promis'd to tell me of?
That you would wear it till your hour of death,
That you yet know not of; we'll see our husbands
That's bitter to sweet end.
That's like my brother's fault. If it confess
That's seal'd in approbation? You, Lord Escalus,
That, had he twenty heads to tender down
That, in the working of your own affections,
That, lying by the violet in the sun,
The Duke comes home to-morrow. Nay, dry your eyes.
The Duke himself, and the magnificoes
The Duke is ent'ring; therefore, hence, away.         Exeunt
The Duke is very strangely gone from hence;
The Duke shall grant me justice. I do wonder,
The French and English, there miscarried
The Hebrew will turn Christian: he grows kind.
The Hyrcanian deserts and the vasty wilds
The Jew shall have all justice. Soft! No haste.
The Jew shall have my flesh, blood, bones, and all,
The Lord Bassanio live an upright life,
The Prince of Arragon hath ta'en his oath,
The Provost knows our purpose and our plot.
The Provost, he shall bear them- whose contents
The Wood began to move.
The ancient Roman honour more appears
The attribute to awe and majesty,
The baby beats the nurse, and quite athwart
The bargain of your faith, I do beseech you
The beards of Hercules and frowning Mars;
The best condition'd and unwearied spirit
The best courtier of them all, when the court lay at Windsor,
The best-regarded virgins of our clime
The better part of my affections would
The clerk will ne'er wear hair on's face that had it.
The continent and summary of my fortune.
The court awards it and the law doth give it.
The cry is still, "They come!" Our castle's strength
The damned'st body to invest and cover
The danger formerly by me rehears'd.
The day almost itself professes yours,
The dearest ring in Venice will I give you,
The deeds of mercy. I have spoke thus much
The deputy cannot abide a whoremaster; if he be a whoremonger,
The devil can cite Scripture for his purpose.
The difference of old Shylock and Bassanio.-
The evil that thou causest to be done,
The flesh?
The follower of so poor a gentleman.
The fool hath planted in his memory
The general subject to a well-wish'd king
The generous and gravest citizens
The head of Ragozine for Claudio's:
The husbandry and manage of my house
The issue of th' exploit. Go, Hercules!
The jewel that we find, we stoop and take't,
The jury, passing on the prisoner's life,
The law against it! But that her tender shame
The law allows it and the court awards it.
The law hath yet another hold on you.
The man that hath no music in himself,
The marshal's truncheon nor the judge's robe,
The matter being afoot, keep your instruction
The mere effusion of thy proper loins,
The motions of his spirit are dull:as night,
The nature of their crimes, that I may minister
The needful bits and curbs to headstrong steeds,
The noble Thanes do bravely in the war,
The other half comes to the general state,
The other half in use, to render it
The other, that he do record a gift,
The painter plays the spider, and hath woven
The paper as the body of my friend,
The pardon that I late pronounced here.
The party 'gainst the which he doth contrive
The penalty and forfeit of my bond.
The pendent world; or to be worse than worst
The phrase is to the matter.
The pound of flesh which I demand of him
The present money to discharge the Jew,
The pretty follies that themselves commit,
The prodigal Christian. Jessica, my girl,
The rate of usance here with us in Venice.
The rather, for I now must make you know
The rest aloof are the Dardanian wives,
The ring of me to give the worthy doctor.
The scarfed bark puts from her native bay,
The second, silver, which this promise carries:
The seeming truth which cunning times put on
The self-same way, with more advised watch,
The sense of death is most in apprehension;
The several caskets to this noble Prince.
The shadowed livery of the burnish'd sun,
The skilful shepherd pill'd me certain wands,
The skull that bred them in the sepulchre.
The smallest scruple of her excellence
The stealth of our most mutual entertainment,
The steeled gaoler is the friend of men. [Knocking within]
The substance of my praise doth wrong this shadow
The tempter or the tempted, who sins most?
The third possessor; ay, he was the third-
The thoughts of others! Pray you, tell me this:
The throned monarch better than his crown;
The time has been, my senses would have cool'd
The tyrant's people on both sides do fight,
The usurper's cursed head. The time is free.
The valiant heart's not whipt out of his trade.         Exit
The vaporous night approaches.
The very mercy of the law cries out
The very tyranny and rage of his.
The virgin tribute paid by howling Troy
The wanton stings and motions of the sense,
The watery kingdom, whose ambitious head
The way to dusty death. Out, out, brief candle!
The way twice o'er.
The weariest and most loathed worldly life
The which my love and some necessity
The which no sooner had his prowess confirm'd
The whitest virtue strikes. What king so strong
The wish would make else an unquiet house.
The words expressly are 'a pound of flesh.'
The words of heaven: on whom it will, it will;
The world is still deceiv'd with ornament.
Their loud applause and Aves vehement;
Their perch, and not their terror.
Their saucy sweetness that do coin heaven's image
Their savage eyes turn'd to a modest gaze
Then I am yours.                [He opens the golden casket]
Then do but say to me what I should do
Then have we here young Dizy, and young Master Deepvow, and
Then howsome'er thou speak'st, 'mong other things
Then is your cause gone too. The Duke's unjust
Then, Angelo, thy fault's thus manifested,
Then, Isabel, live chaste, and, brother, die:
Then, O you blessed ministers above,
Then, if he lose, he makes a swan-like end,
Then, if you speak, you must not show your face,
There are a sort of men whose visages
There are my keys. But wherefore should I go?
There died this morning of a cruel fever
There do I give to you and Jessica,
There have I made my promise
There is a devilish mercy in the judge,
There is a kind of character in thy life
There is a monastery two miles off,
There is a prone and speechless dialect
There is a written scroll! I'll read the writing.
There is another comfort than this world,
There is another friar that set them on;
There is either liquor in his pate or money in his purse
There is no force in the decrees of Venice.
There is no power in the tongue of man
There is no vice so simple but assumes
There is nor flying hence nor tarrying here.
There is some ill a-brewing towards my rest,
There may as well be amity and life
There must be needs a like proportion
There shall be order for't.
There to give up their pow'r. If you can, pace your wisdom
There where your argosies, with portly sail-
There would have been a time for such a word.
There you shall find that Portia was the doctor,
There you shall find three of your argosies
There's many have committed it.
There's more behind that is more gratulate.
There's my purse; I am yet thy debtor. Boy, go along with
There's not a soldier of us all that, in the thanksgiving before
There's not the smallest orb which thou behold'st
There's something tells me- but it is not love-
Therefore I part with him; and part with him
Therefore I scant this breathing courtesy.
Therefore fasten your ear on my advisings; to the love I have in
Therefore he hates me.
Therefore my merchandise makes me not sad.
Therefore thou must be hang'd at the state's charge.
Therefore, I pray you, lead me to the caskets
Therefore, no more of it; hear other things.
Therefore, your best appointment make with speed;
Thereon dependent, for your brother's life-
These griefs and losses have so bated me
These poor informal women are no more
These things being bought and orderly bestowed,
They are entirely welcome.
They have o'erlook'd me and divided me;
They have the wisdom by their wit to lose.
They in themselves, good sooth, are too too light.
They lose it that do buy it with much care.
They say best men moulded out of faults;
They say he parted well and paid his score,
They were not with Bassanio in his ship.
Thieves for their robbery have authority
Thine own true knight,
Think you I can a resolution fetch
This Jacob from our holy Abram was,
This being granted in course- and now follows all: we shall
This bond doth give thee here no jot of blood:
This bond expires- I do expect return
This casket threatens; men that hazard all
This comes too near the praising of myself;
This day my sister should the cloister enter,
This deed unshapes me quite, makes me unpregnant
This deed will be well welcome to Lorenzo.
This house, these servants, and this same myself,
This is a gentle provost; seldom when
This is his lordship's man.
This is kind I offer.
This is that face, thou cruel Angelo,
This is the fool that lent out money gratis.
This is the hand which, with a vow'd contract,
This is the man, this is Antonio,
This other doth command a little door
This reprobate till he were well inclin'd,
This sensible warm motion to become
This third, dull lead, with warning all as blunt:
This was a way to thrive, and he was blest;
Those clamorous harbingers of blood and death.
Those many had not dar'd to do that evil
Thou almost mak'st me waver in my faith,
Thou art the list.
Thou art too noble to conserve a life
Thou art too wild, too rude, and bold of voice-
Thou bear'st thy heavy riches but a journey,
Thou but offend'st thy lungs to speak so loud;
Thou call'dst me dog before thou hadst a cause,
Thou cam'st here to complain.
Thou comest to use thy tongue; thy story quickly.
Thou diest, and all thy goods are confiscate.
Thou dost deserve enough, and yet enough
Thou foolish friar, and thou pernicious woman,
Thou hast contrived against the very life
Thou hast neither heat, affection, limb, nor beauty,
Thou hast not left the value of a cord;
Thou mak'st thy knife keen; but no metal can,
Thou mightst be freed?
Thou must be made immortal. Where's Barnardine?
Thou naughty gaoler, that thou art so fond
Thou rather, with thy sharp and sulphurous bolt,
Thou shalt have justice, more than thou desir'st.
Thou shalt not know the sound of thine own tongue.
Thou spend'st such high-day wit in praising him.
Thou wilt not only loose the forfeiture,
Thou wilt prove his. Take him to prison, officer;
Thou wilt say anon he is some kin to thee,
Thou'lt show thy mercy and remorse, more strange
Though Birnam Wood be come to Dunsinane,
Though Nestor swear the jest be laughable.
Though all the world's vastidity you had,
Though first in question, is thy secondary.
Though he hath fall'n by prompture of the blood,
Though it do well, I do not relish well
Though justice be thy plea, consider this-
Though not for me, yet for your vehement oaths,
Though sometimes you do blench from this to that
Though they would swear down each particular saint,
Though you change your place you need not change your trade; I'll
Three months from twelve; then let me see, the rate-
Three thousand ducats, due unto the Jew,
Three thousand ducats. I'll not answer that,
Thus ornament is but the guiled shore
Thus to retort your manifest appeal,
Thus with my hat, and sigh, and say amen,
Thy death, which is no more. Thou art not thyself;
Thy plainness moves me more than eloquence,
Thy sin's not accidental, but a trade.
Thy skipping spirit; lest through thy wild behaviour
Thy slanders I forgive; and therewithal
Thyself upon thy virtues, they on thee.
Till I again see mine.
Till I were couching with the doctor's clerk.
Till famine and the ague eat them up.
Till famine cling thee; if thy speech be sooth,
Till he did look on me; since it is so,
Till it o'errun the stew: laws for all faults,
Till she herself confess it.
Till time had made them for us. But it chances
Till you have heard me in my true complaint,
To Cato's daughter, Brutus' Portia.
To Christian intercessors. Follow not;
To Lucio] You, sirrah, that knew me for a fool, a coward,
To Tubal and to Chus, his countrymen,
To Valentinus, Rowland, and to Crassus,
To a determin'd scope.
To a most dangerous sea; the beauteous scarf
To a new-crowned monarch; such it is
To accuse this worthy man, but, in foul mouth,
To allay with some cold drops of modesty
To alter me. I stay here on my bond.
To bathe in fiery floods or to reside
To be asham'd to be my father's child!
To be imprison'd in the viewless winds,
To be new varnish'd! Well, but to my choice.
To be received plain, I'll speak more gross-
To be so taken at thy peril, Jew.
To be the dowry of a second head-
To bring thee to the gallows, not to the font.
To bring you thus together 'tis no sin,
To buy his favour, I extend this friendship;
To buy you a better husband.
To call him villain; and then to glance from him
To call upon him.
To cleave a heart in twain.
To come abroad with him at his request.
To come again to Carthage.
To come with him along.
To courtship, and such fair ostents of love
To cozen fortune, and be honourable
To cry 'Good joy.' Good joy, my lord and lady!
To cureless ruin. I stand here for law.
To die for 't!
To do a great right do a little wrong,
To do him good?
To do in slander. And to behold his sway,
To doubt the equivocation of the fiend
To eke it, and to draw it out in length,
To enter publicly. Him I'll desire
To entrap the wisest. Therefore, thou gaudy gold,
To excuse the current of thy cruelty.
To feed my means. Here is a letter, lady,
To find out this abuse, whence 'tis deriv'd.
To find the other forth; and by adventuring both
To find this practice out.
To fine the faults whose fine stands in record,
To follow as it draws! I'll to my brother.
To furnish thee to Belmont to fair Portia.
To furnish us.
To gaze on Christian fools with varnish'd faces;
To give me secret harbour hath a purpose
To give the judgment.
To have a giant's strength! But it is tyrannous
To have free speech with you; and it concerns me
To have her love, provided that your fortune
To have it added to the faults of mine,
To have it ban'd? What, are you answer'd yet?
To have it of my trust or for my sake.                Exeunt
To have the due and forfeit of my bond.
To have what we would have, we speak not what we mean:
To hear a night-shriek, and my fell of hair
To her unhappy brother Claudio?
To him, I say.
To his concupiscible intemperate lust,
To hold a rival place with one of them,
To hold opinion with Pythagoras
To justify this worthy nobleman,
To keep obliged faith unforfeited!
To kiss her burial. Should I go to church
To kiss the ground before young Malcolm's feet,
To kiss this shrine, this mortal-breathing saint.
To know your answer, whether you'll admit him.
To leave a rich Jew's service to become
To let me see them, and to make me know
To let the wretched man outlive his wealth,
To lie in cold obstruction, and to rot;
To ling'ring sufferance. Answer me to-morrow,
To live in prayer and contemplation,
To lock it in the wards of covert bosom,
To look into the bottom of my place:
To lose his head; condemn'd by Angelo.
To make a false one.
To make bad good and good provoke to harm.
To make her heavenly comforts of despair
To make him an example. All hope is gone,
To make me blest or cursed'st among men!
To make the truth appear where it seems hid,
To make thy riches pleasant. What's yet in this
To meet me at the consecrated fount,
To mitigate the justice of thy plea,
To my heart's hope! Gold, silver, and base lead.
To nothing temporal.
To offices of tender courtesy.
To one of woman born.
To one that I would have him help to waste
To one that can my part in him advertise.
To our gross selves? Good, good my lord, bethink you.
To pardon him that hath from nature stol'n
To part so slightly with your wife's first gift,
To pay the petty debt twenty times over.
To please his grandam, never trust me more.
To pluck on others.
To prattle for himself.
To prison with her! Shall we thus permit
To prove whose blood is reddest, his or mine.
To qualify in others. Were he meal'd with that
To quit the fine for one half of his goods;
To raise a present sum; therefore go forth,
To render them redoubted. Look on beauty
To rib her cerecloth in the obscure grave.
To save me from the danger that might come
To save this brother's life?
To seal love's bonds new made than they are wont
To see me pay his debt, and then I care not.          Exeunt
To see me thus transformed to a boy.
To several subjects. Heaven hath my empty words,
To shake the head, relent, and sigh, and yield,
To shoot another arrow that self way
To show how costly summer was at hand
To signify th' approaching of his lord,
To signify their coming.
To sin in loving virtue. Never could the strumpet,
To soften Angelo. And that's my pith of business
To some more fitter place, and that with speed.
To speak before your time. Proceed.
To speak, as from his mouth, what he doth know
To spit on thee again, to spurn thee too.
To stay you from election.
To stop his wounds, lest he do bleed to death.
To stop the foreign spirits, but they come
To such abhorr'd pollution.
To sue to live, I find I seek to die;
To suffer with a quietness of spirit
To take a tedious leave; thus losers part.
To teeming foison, even so her plenteous womb
To th' Duke himself, to tax him with injustice?
To th' end of reck'ning.
To th' hopeful execution do I leave you
To the last hour of act; and then, 'tis thought,
To the last syllable of recorded time;
To the sea-monster. I stand for sacrifice;
To the strict deputy; bid herself assay him.
To the under generation, you shall find
To their right praise and true perfection!
To them accordingly.
To think I can be undiscernible,
To think on this, and shall I lack the thought
To think so base a thought; it were too gross
To this pernicious caitiff deputy.
To this supposed, or else to let him suffer-
To thy false seeming! Blood, thou art blood.
To try her gracious fortune with Lord Angelo
To try my fortune. By this scimitar,
To unburden all my plots and purposes
To undergo such ample grace and honour,
To unloose this tied-up justice when you pleas'd;
To urge the thing held as a ceremony?
To use it for my time. I am a brother
To use it like a giant.
To view with hollow eye and wrinkled brow
To wag their high tops and to make no noise
To wear an undeserved dignity.
To what we fear of death.
To whom I am a neighbour, and near bred.
To whom I am so infinitely bound.
To whom you swore a secret pilgrimage,
To win thee, lady. But, alas the while!
To wind about my love with circumstance;
To wish it back on you. Fare you well, Jessica.
To wish myself much better, yet for you
To wit, besides commends and courteous breath,
To woo a maid in way of marriage;
To-morrow to my bloody creditor.
To-morrow you set on.
Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury,
Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow
Tongue far from heart- play with all virgins so:
Took off her life; this, and what needful else
Touching that point.
Troilus methinks mounted the Troyan walls,
Trudge, plod away i' th' hoof; seek shelter, pack!
Try what my credit can in Venice do;
Tubal, a wealthy Hebrew of my tribe,
Turn you the key, and know his business of him:
Turning his face, he put his hand behind him,
Turns to a wild of nothing, save of joy
Turns to restraint. Our natures do pursue,
Two things provided more; that, for this favour,
Uncapable of pity, void and empty
Under whose heavy sense your brother's life
Under your good correction, I have seen
Unfold the evil which is here wrapt up
Unless Bellario, a learned doctor,
Unless he live until he be a man.
Unless she do it under this excuse,
Unless you have the grace by your fair prayer
Until I see the ring.
Until a king be by, and then his state
Until confirm'd, sign'd, ratified by you.
Until her husband and my lord's return.
Until my husband bid me.
Until my lord's return; for mine own part,
Untimely ripp'd.
Unto Antonio's house. Away, make haste.        Exit GRATIANO
Unto his son Lorenzo and his daughter.
Unto the judge that begg'd it, and indeed
Unto the state of Venice.
Unto the traject, to the common ferry
Upon a knife, 'Love me, and leave me not.'
Upon a wrong'd- I would fain have said a maid!
Upon advantage.
Upon his death unto the gentleman
Upon my faith and honour.
Upon supposed fairness often known
Upon the fortune of this present year;
Upon the heavy middle of the night
Upon the next tree shalt thou hang alive,
Upon the place beneath. It is twice blest:
Upon the sisterhood, the votarists of Saint Clare.
Upon the wild sea-banks, and waft her love
Upon these slanderers.
Upon thy doings. Thousand escapes of wit
Upon your charter and your city's freedom.
Use all the observance of civility
Vailing her high top lower than her ribs
Veiling an Indian beauty; in a word,
Venetian, a scholar and a soldier, that came hither in company of
Venice that swear he cannot choose but break.
Visit both prince and people. Therefore, I prithee,
Was fast belock'd in thine; this is the body
Was mutually committed.
Was sent to by my brother; one Lucio
Was set in worse than gold. They have in England
Was this inserted to make interest good?
We all expect a gentle answer, Jew.
We are no tell-tales, madam, fear you not.
We are the Jasons, we have won the fleece.
We do condemn thee to the very block
We do instate and widow you withal
We freely cope your courteous pains withal.
We have made inquiry of you, and we hear
We have with a leaven'd and prepared choice
We kill the fowl of season; shall we serve heaven
We leave you now with better company.
We might have met them dareful, beard to beard,
We shall employ thee in a worthier place.
We shall proceed with Angelo.
We tread upon, and never think of it.
We trifle time; I pray thee pursue sentence.
We two will leave you; but at dinner-time,
We will perform in measure, time, and place.
We'll borrow place of him. [To ANGELO] Sir, by your leave.
We'll have thee, as our rarer monsters are,
Wear prayer-books in my pocket, look demurely,
Welcome, father.
Welcome, how agreed?
Well then, it now appears you need my help;
Well then, your bond; and, let me see- but hear you,
Well, Angelo, your evil quits you well.
Well, gaoler, on; pray God Bassanio come
Well, go, prepare yourself. [Knocking within] But hark, what
Well, while I live, I'll fear no other thing
Were but a weak disabling of myself.
Were damnable.
Were equal poise of sin and charity.
Were he my kinsman, brother, or my son,
Were in six parts, and every part a ducat,
Were not deriv'd corruptly, and that clear honour
Were purchas'd by the merit of the wearer!
Were testimonies against his worth and credit,
Were they not forced with those that should be ours,
What 'tis to cram a maw or clothe a back
What a Herod of Jewry is this! O wicked, wicked world!
What damned error but some sober brow
What dost thou, or what art thou, Angelo?
What doth befall you here. So, fare you well.
What figure of us think you he will bear?
What gold and jewels she is furnish'd with;
What harm a wind too great might do at sea.
What if I stray'd no farther, but chose here?
What if my house be troubled with a rat,
What is that noise?
What is the news from this good deputy?
What man is there so much unreasonable,
What man thou art.
What many men desire- that 'many' may be meant
What news, friar, of the Duke?
What page's suit she hath in readiness.
What say you to this, sir?
What says the golden chest? Ha! let me see:
What says the silver with her virgin hue?
What says this leaden casket?
What shall be done, sir, with the groaning Juliet?
What shall become of me?
What should I say to him? I was then frugal of my mirth.
What should I say to you? Should I not say
What sin you do to save a brother's life,
What stuff 'tis made of, whereof it is born,
What treason there is mingled with your love.
What would you do?
What's mine is yours, and what is yours is mine.
What's o'clock, think you?
What's this, what's this? Is this her fault or mine?
What's thy offence, Claudio?
What's yet behind that's meet you all should know.
What, 'unjust'!
What, Jessica!- Thou shalt not gormandize
What, and my old Venetian friend, Salerio!
What, are we cuckolds ere we have deserv'd it?
What, art thou come? On, gentlemen, away;
When I am absent, then lie with my wife.
When I am in my coach, which stays for us
When I did first impart my love to you,
When I perceive your Grace, like pow'r divine,
When I'll depose I had him in mine arms,
When I, that censure him, do so offend,
When Laban and himself were compromis'd
When every goose is cackling, would be thought
When evil deeds have their permissive pass
When he would force it? Sure it is no sin;
When it deserves, with characters of brass,
When it doth tax itself; as these black masks
When it is borne in high authority.
When it is least expected.
When it is paid, bring your true friend along.
When it lies starkly in the traveller's bones.
When judges steal themselves. What, do I love her,
When men were fond, I smil'd and wond'red how.          Exit
When mercy seasons justice. Therefore, Jew,
When neither is attended; and I think
When nights are longest there; I'll take my leave,
When nought would be accepted but the ring,
When she will play with reason and discourse,
When the sweet wind did gently kiss the trees,
When they are fretten with the gusts of heaven;
When vice makes mercy, mercy's so extended
When we are both accoutred like young men,
When you depart from him, but, soft and low,
When you do take the means whereby I live.
When you have vow'd, you must not speak with men
When you shall please to play the thieves for wives,
When, after execution, judgment hath
Whensoever he's convented. First, for this woman-
Where Claudio stoop'd to death, and with like haste.
Where Cressid lay that night.
Where I have seen corruption boil and bubble
Where Phoebus' fire scarce thaws the icicles,
Where every something, being blent together,
Where is he?
Where is the Duke? 'Tis he should hear me speak.
Where is the horse that doth untread again
Where men enforced do speak anything.
Where money is; and I no question make
Where prayers cross.
Where you may have such vantage on the Duke
Where you shall be an everlasting leiger.
Where youth, and cost, a witless bravery keeps.
Wherein I see myself-
Wherein doth sit the dread and fear of kings;
Wherein have I so deserv'd of you
Wherein my time, something too prodigal,
Wherein- let no man hear me- I take pride,
Whereof you are a well-deserving pillar,
Whereto if you'll a willing ear incline,
Whether Bassanio had not once a love.
Whether it be the fault and glimpse of newness,
Whether the tyranny be in his place,
Whether those peals of praise be his or no;
Whether till the next night she had rather stay,
Whether you had not sometime in your life
Which I denying, they fell sick and died-
Which I did make him swear to keep for ever.
Which I did think with slower foot came on,
Which I will practise.
Which a dismiss'd offence would after gall,
Which are as easy broke as they make forms.
Which casket 'twas I chose; next, if I fail
Which did refuse three thousand ducats of me,
Which for this fourteen years we have let slip;
Which from the vineyard to the garden leads.
Which had you rather- that the most just law
Which have for long run by the hideous law,
Which have, like unscour'd armour, hung by th' wall
Which he calls interest. Cursed be my tribe
Which he corrects, then were he tyrannous;
Which here appeareth due upon the bond.
Which here you come to accuse.
Which humbleness may drive unto a fine.
Which if thou follow, this strict court of Venice
Which in the soldier is flat blasphemy.
Which is a pound of this poor merchant's flesh,
Which is as dear to me as life itself;
Which is the better man, the greater throw
Which is the hot condition of their blood-
Which is the merchant here, and which the Jew?
Which make such wanton gambols with the wind
Which makes her seat of Belmont Colchos' strond,
Which makes me fear th' enjoying of my love;
Which makes me think that this Antonio,
Which once thou swor'st was worth the looking on;
Which pries not to th' interior, but, like the martlet,
Which rather threaten'st than dost promise aught,
Which seems a little fouler than it is,
Which sorrow is always toward ourselves, not heaven,
Which speed, we hope, the better for our words.
Which the air beats for vain. O place, O form,
Which therein works a miracle in nature,
Which trades to Venice. Waste no time in words,
Which when you part from, lose, or give away,
Which would be planted newly with the time,
Which you did shoot the first, I do not doubt,
Which, but for him that had your husband's ring,
Which, fike your asses and your dogs and mules,
Which, hearing them, would call their brothers fools.
Which, though thou wouldst deny, denies thee vantage.
Which, touching but my gentle vessel's side,
Whiles we shut the gate upon one wooer, another knocks at the
Whilst my invention, hearing not my tongue,
Whip me? No, no; let carman whip his jade;
Who do prepare to meet him at the gates,
Who hath a story ready for your ear.
Who if he break thou mayst with better face
Who is as free from touch or soil with her
Who is it that hath died for this offence?
Who knew of your intent and coming hither?
Who may, in th' ambush of my name, strike home,
Who should have died when Claudio lost his head;
Who thinks he knows that he ne'er knew my body,
Who told me, in the narrow seas that part
Who went with him to search Bassanio's ship.
Who would believe me? O perilous mouths
Who, as 'tis thought, by self and violent hands
Who, falling in the flaws of her own youth,
Who, inward search'd, have livers white as milk!
Who, newly in the seat, that it may know
Who, then conceiving, did in eaning time
Whom I believe to be most strait in virtue,
Whom I have sent for to determine this,
Whom I would save, had a most noble father.
Whom he begot with child, let her appear,
Whom it concerns to hear this matter forth,
Whom we invite to see us crown'd at Scone.
Whose credit with the judge, or own great place,
Whose own hard dealings teaches them suspect
Whose salt imagination yet hath wrong'd
Whose settled visage and deliberate word
Whose souls do bear an equal yoke of love,
Whose voices I desire aloud with mine-
Whose western side is with a vineyard back'd;
Why does my blood thus muster to my heart,
Why dost thou ask again?
Why he cannot abide a gaping pig;
Why he hath made the ewe bleat for the lamb;
Why he, a harmless necessary cat;
Why he, a woollen bagpipe, but of force
Why should a man whose blood is warm within
Why sweat they under burdens?- let their beds
Why would he for the momentary trick
Why, 'tis an office of discovery, love,
Why, Jessica, I say!
Why, all the souls that were were forfeit once;
Why, every fault's condemn'd ere it be done;
Why, if two gods should play some heavenly match,
Why, that's the lady! All the world desires her;
Why, then to thee, thou silver treasure-house!
Will bless it, and approve it with a text,
Will furnish me. But soft! how many months
Will greet us here anon. My gentle Varrius!           Exeunt
Will laugh a siege to scorn. Here let them lie
Will live as maids and widows. Come, away;
Will much impeach the justice of the state,
Will never grant this forfeiture to hold.
Will never more break faith advisedly.
Will not proclaim against her maiden loss,
Will rush into the state; it cannot be.
Will show you his estate.        [BASSANIO opens the letter]
Will so your accusation overweigh
Will you go, Mistress Page?
Will you prepare you for this masque to-night?
Wilt thou be made a man out of my vice?
Windsor leads a better life than she does; do what she will,
Windsor, whoe'er be the other; and she bade me tell your
With a light heart; trust not my holy order,
With a reed voice; and turn two mincing steps
With all her double vigour, art and nature,
With all his might,
With all th' effect of love.
With an unquiet soul. You shall have gold
With any scruple: your scope is as mine own,
With any terms of zeal, wanted the modesty
With bated breath and whisp'ring humbleness,
With bleared visages come forth to view
With blood of thine already.
With character too gross, is writ on Juliet.
With him is Gratiano gone along;
With leave, Bassanio: I am half yourself,
With less respect than we do minister
With maids to seem the lapwing, and to jest,
With mirth and laughter let old wrinkles come;
With no less presence, but with much more love,
With oaths of love, at last- if promise last-
With over-weather'd ribs and ragged sails,
With profits of the mind, study and fast.
With purpose to be dress'd in an opinion
With ransom of such shame. Would yet he had liv'd!
With saints dost bait thy hook! Most dangerous
With some delight or other.
With some moe ducats, and be with you straight.
With sweetest touches pierce your mistress' ear.
With that keen appetite that he sits down?
With that we lack. I'll hold thee any wager,
With thy keen sword impress as make me bleed.
With us in Venice, if it be denied,
With whispering and most guilty diligence,
Within the eye of honour, be assur'd
Within the house, your mistress is at hand;
Within these two months- that's a month before
Within this three mile may you see it coming;
Without the stamp of merit? Let none presume
Women, help heaven! Men their creation mar
Word of denial in thy labras here!
Word of denial! Froth and scum, thou liest.
Would all themselves laugh mortal.
Would any of the stock of Barrabas
Would at a dismal treatise rouse and stir
Would bark your honour from that trunk you bear,
Would blow me to an ague when I thought
Would he were gelt that had it, for my part,
Would make me sad.
Would not have been so stern.
Would scatter all her spices on the stream,
Would seem in me t' affect speech and discourse,
Would use his heaven for thunder,
Wrench awe from fools, and tie the wiser souls
Wrest once the law to your authority;
Yea, mock the lion when 'a roars for prey,
Yea, twice the sum; if that will not suffice,
Yet I live like a poor gentleman born.
Yet I will try the last. Before my body
Yet did repent me, after more advice;
Yet do not suddenly, for it may grieve him.
Yet hath he in him such a mind of honour
Yet in such rule that the Venetian law
Yet, to supply the ripe wants of my friend,
You are not young, no more am I; go to, then, there's
You are too cold: if you should need a pin,
You bid me seek redemption of the devil!
You call me misbeliever, cut-throat dog,
You call'd me dog; and for these courtesies
You cannot better be employ'd, Bassanio,
You could not with more tame a tongue desire it.
You give your wife too unkind a cause of grief;
You grow exceeding strange; must it be so?
You had not found me here so musical.
You have a noble and a true conceit
You have among you many a purchas'd slave,
You have too much respect upon the world;
You know the lady; she is fast my wife,
You know the law; your exposition
You lov'd, I lov'd; for intermission
You may as well do anything most hard
You may as well forbid the mountain pines
You may as well go stand upon the beach
You may as well use question with the wolf,
You may not so extenuate his offence
You may, I may not; you are yet unsworn;
You must be gone from hence immediately.
You must lay down the treasures of your body
You must prepare your bosom for his knife.
You must walk by us on our other hand,
You saw the mistress, I beheld the maid;
You shall hear more ere morning.
You shall look fairer ere I give or hazard.
You shall not know by what strange accident
You shall perceive them make a mutual stand,
You should have been respective and have kept it.
You something know; yet I believe there comes
You spurn'd me such a day; another time
You stand within his danger, do you not?
You swore to me, when I did give it you,
You take my house when you do take the prop
You taught me first to beg, and now, methinks,
You teach me how a beggar should be answer'd.
You that did void your rheum upon my beard
You use in abject and in slavish parts,
You will demand of me why I do this.
You will not do it, you!
You would abate the strength of your displeasure.
You would have slipp'd like him; but he, like you,
You would not then have parted with the ring.
You'll ask me why I rather choose to have
Your Grace hath ta'en great pains to qualify
Your boldest suit of mirth, for we have friends
Your brother and his lover have embrac'd.
Your brother dies to-morrow; be content.
Your brother is to die.
Your brother's death, I know, sits at your heart;
Your company at dinner.
Your fortune stood upon the caskets there,
Your friar is now your prince. As I was then
Your hand, Salerio. What's the news from Venice?
Your hazard shall be made.
Your partner, as I hear, must die to-morrow,
Your provost knows the place where he abides,
Your royal ear abus'd. First, hath this woman
Your safety manifested.
Your sense pursues not mine; either you are ignorant
Your single bond, and, in a merry sport,
Your unknown sovereignty.
Your well-defended honour, you must pardon
Your worship was the last man in our mouths.
Yourself, renowned Prince, then stood as fair
[Aloud]  Away, make haste, thou know'st where I will tarry.
[Aside to MRS. FORD]  Look who comes yonder; she shall
[Aside to PORTIA]  I'll See if I can get my husband's ring,
[Exit ANGELO] Now, sir, come on; what was done to Elbow's wife,
[Knocking continues] By and by.
[Knocks]  What, hoa! Got pless your house here!
[Pulling SIMPLE out]  Rugby, my rapier!
[To ANTONIO]  Give me your gloves, I'll wear them for your sake.
[To BASSANIO]  And, for your love, I'll take this ring from you.
[To JULIET] I have provided for you; stay awhile
[To Lucio] Sneak not away, sir, for the friar and you
a box of the ear of the Englishman, and swore he would pay him
a coward, as you then reported him to be?
a dangerous courtesy.
a dishonest person?
a greedy intention that the appetite of her eye did seem to
a little worse than a man, and when he is worst, he is little
a master of fence-three veneys for a dish of stew'd prunes
a three-pil'd piece, I warrant thee. I had as lief be a list of
a wise burgher put in for them.
a'leven widows and nine maids is a simple coming-in for one man.
abide 'em; they are very ill-favour'd rough things.
about him. Good then; if his face be the worst thing about him,
about to abuse me.
above deck.
absolutely resolve you. Come away; it is almost clear dawn.
abuses!
accounted a merciful man; good my lord.
action of slander too.
adultery, and all uncleanliness there.
advise this wronged maid to stead up your appointment, go in your
affection.
after?
afternoon?
again when he was able; I think the Frenchman became his surety,
again. Fourscore ducats at a sitting! Fourscore ducats!
agree? I have brought him a present. How 'gree you now?
all fears out of you. Look you, sir, here is the hand and seal of
all this.
allowed in Vienna.
always with my heart, la! with my heart.
am famish'd in his service; you may tell every finger I have with
am glad of it.
am glad this parcel of wooers are so reasonable; for there is not
amazement how these things should be: all difficulties are but
an English kersey as be pil'd, as thou art pil'd, for a French
an honest gentleman; but Anne loves him not; for I know
an honest man's son' or rather 'an honest woman's son'; for
an ill life with him! He's a very jealousy man; she leads a
an old cloak makes a new jerkin; a wither'd serving-man a
an undoubted proof.
and Pistol. They carried me to the tavern, and made me
and a boy yet, till my mother be dead. But what though?
and against your cony-catching rascals, Bardolph, Nym,
and all his ancestors, that come after him, may: they may
and all the rest from their functions: they put forth to steal.
and be hang'd an hour! Will't not off?
and broke open my lodge.
and cheese to come.                                   Exeunt
and comes before him, he were as good go a mile on his errand.
and cooled by the same winter and summer, as a Christian is? If
and dismiss him. He cannot plead his estimation with you; he hath
and dissolutely.
and go between you both; and in any case have a
and hanging.
and his head borne to Angelo.
and it shall bite upon my necessity. He loves your wife;
and let him abide here with you; if not, use him for the present,
and my name is Elbow; I do lean upon justice, sir, and do bring
and of other wooers.
and seal'd under for another.
and see if you can see my master, Master Doctor
and so conclusions pass'd the careers.
and such odd sayings, the Sisters Three and such branches of
and that instructed him to mercy.
and the lips; but this I can let you understand: the greater file
and then it is the complexion of them all to leave the dam.
and there is also another device in my prain, which
and there's Madam Juliet.                             Exeunt
and to lurch; and yet you, rogue, will ensconce your rags,
and truly Master Page is an honest man. Never a wife in
and vetch me in my closet un boitier vert-a box, a green-a
and we will afterwards ork upon the cause with as great
and when Mistress Bridget lost the handle of her fan,
and yet there has been earls, nay, which is more,
and, by my troth, I cannot abide the smell of hot meat
and, to run away from the Jew, I should be ruled by the fiend,
anon over-read it at your pleasure, where you shall find within
another Nan; but, I detest, an honest maid as ever broke
another to Page's wife, who even now gave me good eyes
answer. To-morrow morning are to die Claudio and Barnardine. Here
answer?
antiquity, too; bawd-born. Farewell, good Pompey. Commend me to
any complaint whatsoever- no, not for dwelling where you do; if I
any is between this and his head; he hath fought with a
any man in all Venice. His reasons are as two grains of wheat hid
any of us all.
any room in a taphouse but I am drawn in.
anything that appears not foul in the truth of my spirit.
anything which profess'd to make him rejoice; a gentleman of all
approach; if he have the condition of a saint and the complexion
are in supposition: he hath an argosy bound to Tripolis, another
are made of puddings.
art full of error; I am sound.
as I take it, it is almost day.
as it is, as dangerous to be aged in any kind of course as it is
ashore at Windsor? How shall I be revenged on him? I
ask.
assay me? Why, he hath not been thrice in my company!
at Hallowmas, Master Froth?
at the least, if the love of soldier can suffice-that I love
at the moated grange, resides this dejected Mariana. At that
awak'd him, as if to carry him to execution, and show'd him a
bald-pated lying rascal, you must be hooded, must you? Show your
bawd, why, 'tis his right. Bawd is he doubtless, and of
be beholding to his friend for a man. I keep but three men
be by Christian example? Why, revenge. The villainy you teach me
be considered.
be gone. I will make an end of my dinner; there's pippins
be laid upon the children; therefore, I promise you, I fear you.
be no great love in the beginning, yet heaven may decrease
be our messenger to this paltry knight.
be too big for your thief, your thief thinks it little enough; so
be touch'd?
be your tapster still. Courage, there will be pity taken on you;
bear loose, are you not?
because I am a Jew's daughter; and he says you are no good member
beds, and do all myself-
been a bawd.
before us. Away with her to prison. Go to; no more words. [Exeunt
before, e'en as many as could well live one by another. This
beguiles me; but in the boldness of my cunning I will lay myself
benefit; redeem your brother from the angry law; do no stain to
better than a beast. An the worst fall that ever fell, I hope I
better woodman than thou tak'st him for.
between Master Abraham and Mistress Anne Page.
between jet and ivory; more between your bloods than there is
between red wine and Rhenish. But tell us, do you hear whether
between ten and eleven.
between two stock-fishes. But it is certain that when he makes
between you.
bought his doublet in Italy, his round hose in France, his bonnet
box. Do intend vat I speak? A green-a box.
boy.
brains with billets. I will not consent to die this day, that's
bread. We had an hour's talk of that wart; I shall never
breathing; no tears but o' my shedding!
breed-bate; his worst fault is that he is given to prayer; he is
business.
but I say, Love me. By me,
but grace, being the soul of your complexion, shall keep the body
but let that pass. Peter Simple you say your name is?
but see you at my death. Notwithstanding, use your pleasure; if
but that is all one. If Sir John Falstaff have committed
but the best is, he lives not in them.
but these that accuse him in his intent towards our
buy and sell men and women like beasts, we shall have all the
by you, Launcelot.
can bid the other four farewell, I should be glad of his
can easier teach twenty what were good to be done than to be one
can the getting up of the negro's belly; the Moor is with child
cannot enough commend- comes with him at my importunity to fill
carcases of many a tall ship lie buried, as they say, if my
cardinally given, might have been accus'd in fornication,
carried away; and, which is more, within these three days his
cause; and that, I hope, is an unmeasurable distance.
certain of my creditors; and yet, to say the truth, I had as lief
certain.
chain; but I warrant you, the women have so cried and
chapels had been churches, and poor men's cottages princes'
charge, that you swerve not from the smallest article of it,
child.
children should know any wickedness. Old folks, you
choose me a husband. O me, the word 'choose'! I may neither
choose who I would nor refuse who I dislike; so is the will of a
chosen by any rightly but one who you shall rightly love. But
chosen, they are glad to choose me for them; I do it for some
civil, godly company, for this trick. If I be drunk, I'll be
clothes; and one that hath spoke most villainous speeches of the
coals for money.
coat.
come Philip and Jacob; I have kept it myself; and see how he goes
come a little nearer this ways.
come anon to my lodging.                      Exit a SERVANT
come.
come; I'll take my leave of the Jew in the twinkling.
comes.
comfort; swallowed his vows whole, pretending in her discoveries
commendable in none only but parrots. Go in, sirrah; bid them
commendation.'
common. If anything fall to you upon this more than thanks and
commonweal that do nothing but use their abuses in common houses,
company!-
compel him to her recompense; and here, by this, is your brother
competency lives longer.
compremises between you.
concerning your marriage.
conscience is but a kind of hard conscience to offer to counsel
consequence; it must be so. Art going to prison, Pompey?
continued in it some time. You say seven years together?
contract and limit of the solemnity her brother Frederick was
converse with a dumb-show? How oddly he is suited! I think he
could never have brought her to such a canary. Yet
counsel the cripple. But this reasoning is not in the fashion to
counsel well.' To be rul'd by my conscience, I should stay with
counsel. I will run, fiend; my heels are at your commandment; I
courses till thou know'st what they are.
court.
cousin, in any reason.
crossing the plain highway of talk, that the good Antonio, the
cut all his two stones; by gar, he shall not have a stone
damn'd. There is but one hope in it that can do you any good, and
dark'ned in your malice.
daughter's flight.
daughter-
daughter?
day's news. I pray you, sir, of what disposition was the Duke?
day.
days' respite; for the which you are to do me both a present and
defy all angels, in any such sort, as they say, but in the
deliver to a joyful resurrections!-give, when she is able to
delivered, put the liveries to making, and desire Gratiano to
describe them; and according to my description, level at my
description the matter to you, if you be capacity of it.
deserves it; for if there be a kind woman in Windsor, she
desire better sympathy? Let it suffice thee, Mistress Page
desire you to make your answer before him. If it be honest you
despise one that is false; or as I despise one that is not
devised in these three chests, of gold, silver, and lead- whereof
die by the law than my son should be unlawfully born. But, O, how
different names-sure, more!-and these are of the second
discreetly as we can.
disparagements unto you, I am of the church, and will be
disposition of natures. She, having the truth of honour in her,
dissolution of it must cure it. Novelty is only in request; and,
distracts me.
do you your master what good I can; and the very yea and
do yourself wrong indeed, la!                         Exeunt
do, Pompey, I shall beat you to your tent, and prove a shrewd
doing good a remedy presents itself. I do make myself believe
doing it.
done to Elbow's wife that he hath cause to complain of? Come me
dost thou not speak, Elbow?
dote upon a man: surely I think you have charms, la! Yes,
doubleness of the benefit defends the deceit from reproof. What
drunk himself out of his five sentences.
drunk with those that have the fear of God, and not with
drunk, and afterwards pick'd my pocket.
drunk, yet I am not altogether an ass.
drunken knaves.
drunken sleep; careless, reckless, and fearless, of what's past,
ducats.
dukes it well in his absence; he puts transgression to't.
easily. She was in his company at Page's house, and what
easy when they are known. Call your executioner, and off with
eating and drinking be put down. They say this Angelo was not
edition. He will print them, out of doubt; for he cares not
else have married me to the rotten medlar.
endanger my soul gratis? At a word, hang no more about me,
enemies. And what's his reason? I am a Jew. Hath not a Jew eyes?
enforce them against him. We shall find this friar a notable
enjoying of thy life, who I would be sorry should be thus
enough upon him; let him speak no more. Away with those giglets
enough.
ent'ring that, if any crave redress of injustice, they should
every true man's apparel fits your thief.
execution. If you think it meet, compound with him by the year,
exhibit their petitions in the street?
express command, under penalty, to deliver his head in the view
facing.
fairest, that would have won any woman's heart; and I
faith, at the latter end of a sea-coal fire.  [Exit RUGBY]  An
familiar style; and the hardest voice of her behaviour, to be
familiarity will grow more contempt. But if you say
fartuous a civil modest wife, and one, I tell you, that will
father; for the young gentleman, according to Fates and Destinies
favour you have but that you have a hanging look- do you call,
fear of Got in a riot; the Council, look you, shall desire
fearful, that neither my coat, integrity, nor persuasion, can
feed my revenge. He hath disgrac'd me and hind'red me half a
fellow.
fidelicet myself; and the three party is, lastly and
fiend bids me pack. 'Via!' says the fiend; 'away!' says the
fiend. 'For the heavens, rouse up a brave mind' says the fiend
fight.                                   Exeunt all but FORD
finally, mine host of the Garter.
find the thief; and no satisfaction, no revenge; nor no ill luck
first affection; his unjust unkindness, that in all reason should
fitted for't.
flesh. What's that good for?
followers.
following; but I will not eat with you, drink with you, nor pray
foolishly lost at a game of tick-tack. I'll to her.
for I never knew so young a body with so old a head. I leave him
for a monkey.
for example, thou thyself art a wicked villain, despite of all
for here he comes in the likeness of a Jew.
for it is a naughty house.
for me, you rogue! You stand upon your honour! Why,
for the old women were all dead. Then is there here one Master
for the putting down of men. How shall I be
for thee; let me have thy voice in my behalf. If thou seest
for untrussing. Farewell, good friar; I prithee pray for me. The
for you.
for, look you, the warrant's come.
fortune hath convey'd to my understanding; and, but that frailty
fortune! Here comes the man. To him, father, for I am a Jew, if I
forty more- all great doers in our trade, and are now 'for the
four o'clock.
fourscore ducats.
fourscore pound a year; whose father died at Hallowmas- was't not
frailty, many deceiving promises of life; which I, by my good
free.
fresh tapster. Go; adieu.
friends for three reprieves for you and your coach-fellow,
frowning than the Count Palatine; he is every man in no man. If a
fruit dish, a dish of some three pence; your honours have seen
fruitful meal would set me to't. But they say the Duke will be
full of unmannerly sadness in his youth. I had rather be married
geminy of baboons. I am damn'd in hell for swearing to
gentle; and one that is your friend, I can tell you that by
gentleman to the extremest shore of my modesty; but my brother
gentlemen my friends you were good soldiers and tall fellows;
gentry.
getting a hundred bastards, he would have paid for the nursing a
gifts.
ginger or made her neighbours believe she wept for the death of a
ginger, nine score and seventeen pounds, of which he made five
give the dozen white luces in their coat.
given too much to allicholy and musing; but for you-well,
gives the leer of invitation; I can construe the action of her
glad to do my benevolence, to make atonements and
glass of Rhenish wine on the contrary casket; for if the devil be
glover's paring-knife?
go to your knees and make ready.
go to.
go.
gold and bounty. I will be cheaters to them both, and they
gold, and silver, is her grandsire upon his death's-bed-Got
good Tubal; at our synagogue, Tubal.                  Exeunt
good fortune, by the saint whom I profess, I will plead against
good parts aside, I have no other charms.
goodness that is cheap in beauty makes beauty brief in goodness;
gossip Report be an honest woman of her word.
government.
gown to keep him warm; and furr'd with fox on lamb-skins too, to
grace of wit will shortly turn into silence, and discourse grow
grace, I hope-that were a trick indeed! But Mistress Page
grace.
grant them a fair departure.
great world.
greater forfeit to the law than Angelo who hath sentenc'd him. To
ha?
had been throughly moved, you should have heard him
had rather be a giantess and lie under Mount Pelion. Well,
hanged betimes in the morning may sleep the sounder all the next
hard, Nerissa, that I cannot choose one, nor refuse none?
hark you: I advise you, let me not find you before me again upon
hath a thousand of these letters, writ with blank space for
hath examples for his falling, I should wonder at Angelo. How
hath made him that gracious denial which he is most glad to
hath this Flemish drunkard pick'd-with the devil's name!
hath, squand'red abroad. But ships are but boards, sailors but
have I forgot?                                          Exit
have a desire, as my father shall specify-
have borne the humour'd letter to her; but I have a sword,
have brought her into such a canaries as 'tis wonderful.
have dark deeds darkly answered; he would never bring them to
have given it for a wilderness of monkeys.
have good inspirations; therefore the lott'ry that he hath
have made you four tall fellows skip like rats.
have more occasion to know one another. I hope upon
have no words of it-my master himself is in love with
have nothing lie on my head. I cannot be thus satisfied.
have quenched her love, hath, like an impediment in the current,
have spoke, you have courage to maintain it; I am bound to call
have the foppery of freedom as the morality of imprisonment.
have you?
he gets more of her than sharp words, let it lie on my head.
he is indeed Justice.
he is wronged.
he not hold up his head, as it were, and strut in his gait?
he promis'd her marriage. His child is a year and a quarter old
he shall not abuse Robert Shallow, esquire.
he was outrun on Cotsall.
he went not in himself; if he had found the young man,
he will avoid your accusation: he made trial of you only.
he will prove the weeping philosopher when he grows old, being so
he would have been horn-mad.
head sent me by five. Let this be duly performed, with a thought
head to be chopp'd off.
head; what matter have you against me?
heads; if this law hold in Vienna ten year, I'll rent the fairest
hear it.
hear no more of you.
heard in Genoa.
heard speak of Mariana, the sister of Frederick, the great
hears'd at my foot, and the ducats in her coffin! No news of
heart, says very wisely to me 'My honest friend Launcelot, being
helper; if you will take it on you to assist him, it shall redeem
her before me, commend me.
her by my company.
her ever most kind and natural; with him the portion and sinew of
her fortune, her marriage-dowry; with both, her combinate
her so much as sip on a cup with the proudest of them all;
her. She bears the purse too; she is a region in Guiana, all
her. [Exit an ATTENDANT] Pray you, my lord, give me leave to
her; she'll fit it.
here to-morrow. By my troth, Isabel, I lov'd thy brother. If the
here's a small trifle of wives; alas, fifteen wives is nothing;
herself in the tub.
him for a better place. Yet you are amaz'd, but this shall
him for th' entertainment of death.
him on with a fine-baited delay, till he hath pawn'd his
him that may not sully the chariness of our honesty. O
him, if he forfeit; for, were he out of Venice, I can make what
him. He would be drunk too; that let me inform you.
himself a young gallant! What an unweighed behaviour
his attempt. If you think well to carry this as you may, the
his face, so she defied him.
his fact, till now in the government of Lord Angelo, came not to
his horse; and he makes it a great appropriation to his own good
his house-eaves because they are lecherous. The Duke yet would
his own shadow; if I should marry him, I should marry twenty
his wife's frailty, yet I cannot put off my opinion so
hold that the lips is parcel of the mouth. Therefore,
holds,
honest Antonio- O that I had a title good enough to keep his name
honest Gobbo' or, as aforesaid, 'honest Launcelot Gobbo, do not
honest, I lose not my labour; if she be otherwise, 'tis labour
honest, willing, kind fellow, as ever servant shall come in
honesty and constancy. If I read it not truly, my ancient skill
honour's reverence, for stew'd prunes. Sir, we had but two in the
honour.
hopes there will come a time. I never knew a woman so
horn full of good news; my master will be here ere morning.
horse better than the Neapolitan's, a better bad habit of
horses to mine host of the Garter.
hot venison pasty to dinner; come, gentlemen, I hope we
house in it, after threepence a bay. If you live to see this come
house withal; and, I warrant you, no tell-tale nor no
house, for here be many of her old customers. First, here's young
house, here will be an old abusing of God's patience and
house, which at that very distant time stood, as it were, in a
house.
house.
how I might be knighted. I shall think the worse of fat
how could Master Froth do the constable's wife any harm? I would
humour-letter; I will keep the haviour of reputation.
hundred years.
husband's purse; he hath a legion of angels.
husband, this well-seeming Angelo.
husband, will be from home. Alas, the sweet woman leads
husbands. If he would despise me, I would forgive him; for if he
i' th' morning, falling out that year on Ash Wednesday was four
if she be less than an honest woman, she is indeed more than I
if you can carry her your desires towards her.
imposition, depending on the caskets.
imprisonment, and your deliverance with an unpitied whipping, for
in Germany, and his behaviour everywhere.
in Rome; but where is he, think you?
in controversy between the Jew and Antonio the merchant; we
in hanging, if I should be hang'd, I cannot imagine.
in hazard. Claudio, whom here you have warrant to execute, is no
in here before your good honour two notorious benefactors.
in that. If a Jew wrong a Christian, what is his humility?
in the English. He is a proper man's picture; but alas, who can
in the fire, and need not.
in the way of marriage.
in truth.
in, two bushels of chaff: you shall seek all day ere you find
indeed my father did something smack, something grow to, he had a
indeed to return to their home, and to trouble you with no more
inherit first, for, I protest, mine never shall. I warrant he
instruction.
is a motion generative; that's infallible.
is absent have done this? Ere he would have hang'd a man for the
is but heading and hanging.
is but three skirts for yourself, in my simple conjectures;
is dat knave, Rugby?
is in our prison a common executioner, who in his office lacks a
is in the manner of his nurse, or his dry nurse, or his cook,
is it? Dispense with trifles; what is it?
is one. You must send her your page; no remedy.
is the way; and there dwells one Mistress Quickly, which
is to have you understand me that he is sufficient; yet his means
it agrees well, passant; it is a familiar beast to man, and
it as any man in England. You are afraid, if you see the
it is a shallenge; I will cut his troat in de park; and I will
it upon better acquaintance, when we are married and
it with my life.
it your good heart! I wish'd your venison better; it was ill
it, though old man, yet poor man, my father.
judge, but most willingly humbles himself to the determination of
justice have I found so severe that he hath forc'd me to tell him
justice. Yet had he framed to himself, by the instruction of his
keep the terms of my honour precise. I, I, I myself
kill'd. How doth good Mistress Page?-and I thank you
kind of burr; I shall stick.                          Exeunt
kind of taste- well, my conscience says 'Launcelot, budge not.'
knave's visage, with a pox to you! Show your sheep-biting face,
knight. Will you go, Mynheers?
know himself.
know some strain in me that I know not myself, he would
know that of your honour.
know that of your mouth or of your lips; for divers philosophers
know, Master Froth, I could not give you three pence again-
know, have discretion, as they say, and know the world.
knowing me: it is a wise father that knows his own child. Well,
knows more of Anne's mind than I do; nor can do more
la cour-la grande affaire.
land-thieves- I mean pirates; and then there is the peril of
last rain, ha? What say'st thou, trot? Is the world as it was,
late; but notwithstanding-to tell you in your ear, I would
laugh but in that maid's company! But, indeed, she is
laws for the blood, but a hot temper leaps o'er a cold decree;
lay my countenance to pawn. I have grated upon my good
learning, is indeed deceased; or, as you would say in plain
leave our pribbles and prabbles, and desire a marriage
leave; and there is a forerunner come from a fifth, the Prince of
leisure, have discredited to him, and now he is resolv'd to die.
let it be as humours and conceits shall govern.
letter to Mistress Page; and thou this to Mistress Ford. We
letter, gift after gift; smelling so sweetly, all musk, and so
light. Would he were return'd! Marry, this Claudio is condemned
like to madness; pray heaven his wisdom be not tainted! And why
likewise your own benefit.
liking. And yet he would not swear; prais'd women's
likings.
list, rise when she list, all is as she will; and truly she
little for your thief, your true man thinks it big enough; if it
little yellow beard, a Cain-colour'd beard.
live! But how out of this can she avail?
lived.                                         Exit ISABELLA
living daughter curb'd by the will of a dead father. Is it not
look'd upon, was the best deserving a fair lady.
love me to madness, I shall never requite him.
love.
lying. He hath wronged me in some humours; I should
mad!
made an assay of her virtue to practise his judgment with the
made by man and woman after this downright way of creation. Is it
made it more violent and unruly. Go you to Angelo; answer his
maid, widow, nor wife.
make you understand this in a manifested effect, I crave but four
making of Christians will raise the price of hogs; if we grow all
malefactors?
man, and young Dropheir that kill'd lusty Pudding, and Master
man.
man; go into this closet.  [Shuts SIMPLE in the closet]  He
man? Which is the way? Is it sad, and few words? or how? The
manner to do so.
marks ready money. Marry, then ginger was not much in request,
married man, he's his wife's head, and I can never cut of a
marry her?
master Jew's?
master Jew's?
master. Anne is a good girl, and I wish-
match'd, unless the devil himself turn Jew.
may be gone; it is not good you tarry here. By gar, I will
may be your guide. Let this Barnardine be this morning executed,
may prove prosperous; and let me desire to know how you find
may, but in the end truth will out.
me see.                                              [Reads]
me to stay with the Jew. The fiend gives the more friendly
me whether one Launcelot, that dwells with him, dwell with him or
me wrong, doth cause me, as my father, being I hope an old man,
me your blessing; I am Launcelot, your boy that was, your son
me, I hear the parson is no jester. Hark, I will tell you
me; that is the very note of it.
measure our weapon. By gar, I will myself have Anne
meat, do relish the petition well that prays for peace.
meet him at the gates, and redeliver our authorities there?
meeting, give him a show of comfort in his suit, and lead
men as long as I have an eye to make difference of men's
men; there be land-rats and water-rats, water-thieves and
merchandise I will. Go, Tubal, and meet me at our synagogue; go,
merry host hath had the measuring of their weapons; and,
messenger came, in loving visitation was with me a young doctor
met; by your leave, good mistress.              [Kisses her]
might he be, what a beard hast thou got! Thou hast got more hair
million; laugh'd at my losses, mock'd at my gains, scorned my
mine honour in my necessity, am fain to shuffle, to hedge,
mine own people.
mine,
modesty, and gave such orderly and well-behaved reproof
monastery; but, by chance, nothing of what is writ. Look, th'
more adhere and keep place together than the Hundredth
more of this. Canst thou tell if Claudio die to-morrow or no?
more said? He is good, and fair. Is Sir John Falstaff here?
more sympathy. You love sack, and so do I; would you
mortal.
most sufficient of your parish.
most sweet Jew! If a Christian do not play the knave and get
mother play'd false with a smith.
mother should be visited upon me.
mother.
mother; thus when I shun Scylla, your father, I fall into
much is the good Duke deceiv'd in Angelo! If ever he return, and
must give folks leave to prate. What the good-year!
my creditors grow cruel, my estate is very low, my bond to the
my master, look you, for I keep his house; and I wash,
my ribs. Father, I am glad you are come; give me your present to
my suit?
my venison, Master Shallow.
my ward; for thence will not I to-day.                  Exit
myself, must I? You have not the Book of Riddles about you,
name.
nation till now; I never felt it till now. Two thousand ducats in
nation, thwarted my bargains, cooled my friends, heated mine
nay-word, that you may know one another's mind, and the boy
ne nightingale, if she should sing by day,
nearer this ways. I myself dwell with Master Doctor
need not to fear the bawds.
neither in time, matter, or other circumstance. Good morrow; for
nephew?
never come in mine own great chamber again else!-of
never have boarded me in this fury.
never need to understand any thing; for 'tis not good that
newly made woman, to be had now for putting the hand in the
no honest man dat shall come in my closet.
no?
nor I him: he hath neither Latin, French, nor Italian, and you
not Anne Page, I shall turn your head out of my door.
not be alter'd: Claudio must die to-morrow. Let him be furnish'd
not have me, choose.' He hears merry tales and smiles not. I fear
not inclin'd that way.
not miss you morning nor evening prayer, as any is in
not only saves your brother, but keeps you from dishonour in
not revenge? If we are like you in the rest, we will resemble you
not strange to you.
not well that he comes not home.  [Singing]
not; for he this very day receives letters of strange tenour,
notwithstanding, Master Fenton, I'll be sworn on a book
now; now will I raise the waters.- Talk you of young Master
oath, and the nuptial appointed; between which time of the
of Angelo? I may make my case as Claudio's, to cross this in the
of Rome- his name is Balthazar. I acquainted him with the cause
of Yead Miller, by these gloves.
of a codpiece to take away the life of a man! Would the Duke that
of a devil, I had rather he should shrive me than wive me.
of dishonour; in few, bestow'd her on her own lamentation, which
of honesty into English.
of it ever fair. The assault that Angelo hath made to you,
of mine.
of my beauty, and am I now a subject for them? Let
of other affairs; but I will attend you awhile.
of rich lading wreck'd on the narrow seas; the Goodwins I think
of the commonwealth, for in converting Jews to Christians you
of the subject held the Duke to be wise.
of the twenty to follow mine own teaching. The brain may devise
of thee.
of years be no impediment to let him lack a reverend estimation,
of your letter I am very sick; but in the instant that your
office, awakens me with this unwonted putting-on; methinks
officer; bespeak him a fortnight before. I will have the heart of
old fantastical Duke of dark corners had been at home, he had
old man, I will tell you news of your son. Give me your blessing;
oman that altogether's acquaintance with Mistress Anne
on thy chin than Dobbin my fill-horse has on his tail.
once more?
one Master Bassanio, who indeed gives rare new liveries; if I
one among them but I dote on his very absence, and I pray God
one that I am not acquainted withal; for, sure, unless he
opinions, here's the twin-brother of thy letter; but let thine
or his laundry, his washer, and his wringer.
or so, I could be knighted.
ord 'dissolutely': the ort is, according to our meaning,
out; he tells me flatly there's no mercy for me in heaven,
overtake seventeen years old. It were a goot motion if we
palaces. It is a good divine that follows his own instructions; I
parts that he can shoe him himself; I am much afear'd my lady his
passions, fed with the same food, hurt with the same weapons,
past it yet; and, I say to thee, he would mouth with a beggar
patiently, why, your mettle is the more. Adieu trusty Pompey.
penitent to be so bar'd before his death. You know the course is
penitent trade than your bawd; he doth oftener ask forgiveness.
pensioners; but, I warrant you, all is one with her.
peradventure he shall ever return to have hearing of this
peradventure prings goot discretions with it. There is Anne
perchance of the Duke's death, perchance entering into some
phrase!
piece of money, and go through with all.
place call upon me; and dispatch with Angelo, that it may be
place. If the encounter acknowledge itself hereafter, it may
plain man in his plain meaning: go to thy fellows, bid them cover
please you I might be whipt.
pocket and extracting it clutch'd? What reply, ha? What say'st
portly belly.
praise.
pray, Pompey, to increase your bondage. If you take it not
precise villains they are, that I am sure of, and void of all
precisely, can you carry your good will to the maid?
prepare dinner.
prepare for dinner.
present, or to come; insensible of mortality and desperately
pretty virginity.
priest; and I have appointed mine host of de Jarteer to
princely suitors that are already come?
prison! Where is the Provost? Away with him to prison! Lay bolts
prison; give him leave to escape hence, he would not; drunk many
profanation in the world that good Christians ought to have.
profession; one would think it were Mistress Overdone's own
promise of satisfaction. I will presently to Saint Luke's; there,
prop? Do you know me, father?
prophet, the Nazarite, conjured the devil into! I will buy with
prove it.
prove my occupation a mystery; but what mystery there should be
pull'd down?
purchas'd as many diseases under her roof as come to-
question; you shall see how I'll handle her.
quickly.
raise the price of pork.
rapier.
ready at the farthest by five of the clock. See these letters
reasonable demands.
receive some instructions from my fellow partner.
receive. I am confessor to Angelo, and I know this to be true;
recompense me in making me a cuckold.
refuse to accept him.
report; you, indeed, spoke so of him; and much more, much worse.
reproach.
requiring with a plausible obedience; agree with his demands to
resolution with hopes that are fallible; to-morrow you must die;
respected with her before I was married to her! If ever I was
respected with her, or she with me, let not your worship think me
rest to run away, so I will not rest till I have run some ground.
reveng'd on him? for reveng'd I will be, as sure as his guts
revenge.
revolt of mine is dangerous. That is my true humour.
right; but to the point. As I say, this Mistress Elbow, being, as
ruled by your well-willers. I will peat the door for Master
run; scorn running with thy heels.' Well, the most courageous
rushling, I warrant you, in silk and gold; and in such alligant
sack to give me recourse to him, and tell him my name is
said I well?-and thy name shall be Brook. It is a merry
said, and, as I say, paying for them very honestly; for, as you
said, for prunes; and having but two in the dish, as I said,
said.
same abundance as your good fortunes are; and yet, for aught I
same kind! This would make mercy swear and play the tyrant.
saved, your honour untainted, the poor Mariana advantaged, and
say what she will, take all, pay all, go to bed when she
say't, is an honest exceeding poor man, and, God be thanked, well
scale.                                                  Exit
scarce cater-cousins-
sciatica?
scorch me up like a burning-glass! Here's another letter to
sea with the Ten Commandments, but scrap'd one out of the table.
seated in the mean: superfluity come sooner by white hairs, but
see thee froth and lime. I am at a word; follow.   Exit HOST
see, they are as sick that surfeit with too much as they that
seeming warrant for it; it hath not moved him at all.
sentenc'd himself.
servants!
serve not him, I will run as far as God has any ground. O rare
serve the Jew any longer.
seven groats in mill-sixpences, and two Edward
shadow and silence in it; and the place answer to convenience.
shall be exchequers to me; they shall be my East and West
shall become him well; wherein if he chance to fail, he hath
shall crave your forbearance a little. May be I will call upon
shall do that that is reason.
shall drink down all unkindness.
shall find it a great charge; and to be up early and down
shall follow it as the flesh and fortune shall better determine.
shall frutify unto you-
shall have Anne Page for myself? By gar, I vill kill de Jack
shall have good fortune. Go to, here's a simple line of life;
shall make shift to go without him.
shall see a masque, but if you do, then it was not for nothing
shall tell you another tale, if matters grow to your
shall then have no power to stand against us.
she loves you. Have not your worship a wart above your eye?
she yet wears for his sake; and he, a marble to her tears, is
shift.
shin th' other day with playing at sword and dagger with
ship.
should end it.
should live, all debts are clear'd between you and I, if I might
shoulders that a milkmaid, if she be in love, may sigh it off.
shovel-boards that cost me two shilling and two pence apiece
shriek'd at it that it pass'd; but women, indeed, cannot
signifies love.
signify that craft, being richer than innocency, stands for the
simple though I stand here.
since, and he was ever precise in promise-keeping.
since. Why do your dogs bark so? Be there bears i' th'
singer-he kept not time.
sir, as my father shall specify-
sir, for your kindness I owe you a good turn.
sir, it shall be cover'd; for your coming in to dinner, sir, why,
sir, your occupation a mystery?
sirrah, for all you are my man, go wait upon my cousin
sister. Angelo had never the purpose to corrupt her; only he hath
sister. But mark how heavily this befell to the poor gentlewoman:
sit till you come.
sleep afterwards.
smallest.
so loud and so melancholy. But notwithstanding, man, I'll
so red. Thou must be patient. I am fain to dine and sup with
so, Master Page? He hath wrong'd me; indeed he hath; at a
sola!
soldier who miscarried at sea?
some speech with you; the satisfaction I would require is
something drown my manly spirit; adieu!
something peevish that way; but nobody but has his fault;
something too crabbed that way, friar.
sometimes the beam of her view gilded my foot, sometimes my
sometimes, leaving the fear of God on the left hand, and hiding
sooner confess; perchance, publicly, she'll be asham'd.
speak a good word to Mistress Anne Page for my master,
speak unskilfully; or, if your knowledge be more, it is much
speak with you both.
speaks small like a woman.
speech we had to such a purpose.
spy entertainment in her; she discourses, she carves, she
starve with nothing. It is no mean happiness, therefore, to be
state and usurp the beggary he was never born to. Lord Angelo
stirring but what lights o' my shoulders; no sighs but o' my
strange picklock, which we have sent to the deputy.
strangely, for he hath not us'd it before.
stream of his life, and the business he hath helmed, must, upon a
subject to the same diseases, healed by the same means, warmed
suburbs; and now she professes a hot-house, which, I think, is a
such a hare is madness the youth, to skip o'er the meshes of good
such dishes; they are not China dishes, but very good dishes.
sufficient to serve it?
sufficient. Three thousand ducats- I think I may take his bond.
suit, unless you may be won by some other sort than your father's
suits of peach-colour'd satin, which now peaches him a beggar.
sword will open.
sympathy. You are merry, so am I; ha! ha! then there's
tales of the Duke.
talk offend you, we'll have very little of it. Nay, friar, I am a
tapster. Are you not? Come, tell me true; it shall be the better
teach a scurvy jack-a-nape priest to meddle or make. You
temperance. But leave we him to his events, with a prayer they
tender, a kind of tender, made afar off by Sir Hugh here. Do
terms, gone to heaven.
terms; and in such wine and sugar of the best and the
testimonied in his own bringings-forth, and he shall appear to
th' town commended him for a true man.
than I do with her, I thank heaven.
that I will sue to be rid of it.
that are hollow: thy bones are hollow; impiety has made a feast
that is but a kind of bastard hope, neither.
that is, your child that shall be.
that more depends on it than we must yet deliver. Thus fail not
that my husband saw this letter! It would give eternal food
that my nose fell a-bleeding on Black Monday last at six o'clock
that such a one and such a one were past cure of the thing you
that you may most uprighteously do a poor wronged lady a merited
that, and other precious, precious jewels. I would my daughter
that, in the beastliest sense, you are Pompey the Great. Pompey,
the Duke. You know the character, I doubt not; and the signet is
the Jew my master, who- God bless the mark!- is a kind of devil;
the King's English.
the King?
the Marquis of Montferrat?
the Welsh priest and Caius the French doctor.
the city?
the contrary.
the contrary. O Mistress Page, give me some counsel.
the corrupt deputy scaled. The maid will I frame and make fit for
the envious a scholar, a statesman, and a soldier. Therefore you
the head and tie the beard; and say it was the desire of the
the justice of your dealing?
the matter; therefore be o' good cheer, for truly I think you are
the next turning of all, on your left; marry, at the very next
the no is, the French doctor, my master-I may call him
the picture, she says, that you wot of. Master Ford, her
the point; only refer yourself to this advantage: first, that
the poor Duke's officer. Prove this, thou wicked Hannibal, or
the prison, Pompey. You will turn good husband now, Pompey; you
the prison, in the absence of the Duke.
the stones of the foresaid prunes-
the table, serve in the meat, and we will come in to dinner.
the very debt of your calling. I have labour'd for the poor
the way; I praise heaven for it.
the wicked fire of lust have melted him in his own grease.
the wings she flew withal.
the world! What corruption in this life that it will let this man
thee the hearing.
thee, I am much deceived. But, adieu! these foolish drops do
thee. I will not say, Pity me: 'tis not a soldier-like phrase;
thefts were too open; his filching was like an unskilful
their coaches; I warrant you, coach after coach, letter after
them, and when you have them they are not worth the search.
them? Why, so- and I know not what's spent in the search. Why,
there has been knights, and lords, and gentlemen, with
there she lost a noble and renowned brother, in his love toward
there's the humour of it. Adieu.                    Exit Nym
there's the short and the long.
there?
there? What are you?
therefore prepare yourself to death. Do not satisfy your
these two days he will be here. This is a thing that Angelo knows
these. God defend me from these two!
they be out of service.
they call the place, a very dangerous flat and fatal, where the
they have acquainted me with their determinations, which is
they made there I know not. Well, I will look further into
think of the trade, Pompey? Is it a lawful trade?
think the best way were to entertain him with hope, till
think you of it?
third at Mexico, a fourth for England- and other ventures he
third husband. But it is true, without any slips of prolixity or
this house, if it be not a bawd's house, it is pity of her life,
this is a respected fellow; and his mistress is a respected
this woman.  [Exeunt QUICKLY and ROBIN]  This news
thither. For debt, Pompey- or how?
thou led in triumph? What, is there none of Pygmalion's images,
thou sure of this?
thou to this tune, matter, and method? Is't not drown'd i' th'
thou unconfinable baseness, it is as much as I can do to
thou varlet; thou art to continue.
thou wouldst discover if thou couldst, let him continue in his
thou- loss upon loss! The thief gone with so much, and so much to
though I cannot remember what I did when you made me
though I did.
though she smelt brown bread and garlic. Say that I said so.
thousand. He had some feeling of the sport; he knew the service,
three umpires in this matter, as I understand: that is,
threw this whale, with so many tuns of oil in his belly,
thrift. Briefly, I do mean to make love to Ford's wife; I
throstle sing he falls straight a-cap'ring; he will fence with
thus get my wife into corners.
thy health; but, whilst I live, forget to drink after thee.
thy speech. I will, out of thine own confession, learn to begin
thy speeches?
tightly;
times a day, if not many days entirely drunk. We have very oft
times you stand on distance, your passes, stoccadoes, and
to a death's-head with a bone in his mouth than to either of
to all uncomeliness that I would have sworn his disposition
to be a thief too, sir, for we have found upon him, sir, a
to be pork-eaters, we shall not shortly have a rasher on the
to depart, I am come to advise you, comfort you, and pray with
to do your office, as you will answer it at your peril.'
to hear the fear of Got, and not to hear a riot; take your
to his jealousy.
to his liberty or executed him? I have heard it was ever his
to lend money for a Christian courtesy; let him look to his bond.
to live.
to make fellowships accurst. Much upon this riddle runs the
to me 'Gobbo, Launcelot Gobbo, good Launcelot' or 'good Gobbo' or
to notify that her husband will be absence from his house
to pass, say Pompey told you so.
to prison was worth five thousand of you all.
to put you so oft upon't. Are there not men in your ward
to rise and be put to death.
to sea again. Let's be reveng'd on him; let's appoint him a
to signify.
to the Indies; I understand, moreover, upon the Rialto, he hath a
to throw at his dog.                             Exit SIMPLE
to use me for your own turn, you shall find me yare; for truly,
to what was done to her.
to you too; and let me tell you in your ear, she's as
to your gracious acceptance, whose trial shall better publish his
to your manor of Pickt-hatch; go. You'll not bear a letter
to your worship. Mistress Page hath her hearty commendations
to-night with my new master, the Christian.
to-night.
tongue in my head!  [Looking on his palm]  Well; if any man in
too unhurtful an opposite. But, indeed, I can do you little harm:
too, and with the other confederate companion!
too, examin'd my parts with most judicious oeillades;
too; he's as far from jealousy as I am from giving him
took her for.
toward my wife, I would turn her loose to him; and what
town?
traveller, and wild Halfcan that stabb'd Pots, and, I think,
trick of it?
troop on.                                             Exeunt
trot.
true, think you?
true. The knight Sir John is there; and, I beseech you, be
true; if not true, none were enough.
true?
truth enough alive to make societies secure; but security enough
truth of it. He came of an errand to me from Parson Hugh.
truth will come to light; murder cannot be hid long; a man's son
truth, I know it is a sin to be a mocker, but he- why, he hath a
turn them together. A man may be too confident. I would
turn'd o'er many books together; he is furnished with my opinion
turning, turn of no hand, but turn down indirectly to the Jew's
turquoise; I had it of Leah when I was a bachelor; I would not
twenty, good Master Page! Master Page, will you go with
two thousand ducats in Frankfort! The curse never fell upon our
two yards about; but I am now about no waste; I am about
under one body's hand.
unfolding star calls up the shepherd. Put not yourself into
unpeople the province with continency; sparrows must not build in
up your Grace's request in my stead. I beseech you let his lack
upon this time have I promis'd here to meet.
upon you; and I pray you your name?
us'd to come so smug upon the mart. Let him look to his bond. He
us, I pray.
us? We have sport in hand.
varld I shall leave behind.
varlet, now, what's come upon thee: thou art to continue now,
velvet. Do I speak feelingly now?
very frampold life with him, good heart.
very ill house too.
very ill.
very prop.
very words. What doth he think of us?
vilely in the afternoon when he is drunk. When he is best, he is
virtuous to be constant in any undertakeing. There is scarce
visitation.
vizaments in that.
warrant you, they could never get an eye-wink of her.
warrant, quittance, or obligation-'Armigero.'
warranted need, give him a better proclamation. Let him be but
warrener.
was put down, and the worser allow'd by order of law a furr'd
was to put a ducat in her clack-dish. The Duke had crotchets in
was wont to call me usurer; let him look to his bond. He was wont
washed with them, but relents not.
water and bran; I dare not for my head fill my belly; one
water his urine is congeal'd ice; that I know to be true. And he
waters, winds, and rocks. The man is, notwithstanding,
way of honesty; and, I warrant you, they could never get
we talk of were return'd again. This ungenitur'd agent will
well allied; but it is impossible to extirp it quite, friar, till
well bestowed.                                          Exit
well, bully Hector?
well.
were dead at my foot, and the jewels in her ear; would she were
what he puts into the press when he would put us two. I
what our sport shall be.               [They converse apart]
what warmth is there in your affection towards any of these
when I last saw him.
when he looks so merrily. How now, mine host!
where, indeed, you have a delight to sit, have you not?
which else would stand under grievous imposition, as for the
which she thanks you a thousand times; and she gives you
which, bettered with his own learning-the greatness whereof I
who chooses his meaning chooses you- will no doubt never be
who dare scarce show his head on the Rialto; a beggar, that was
who, being more than sand-blind, high-gravel blind, knows me not.
who- saving your reverence!- is the devil himself. Certainly the
whole wealth of thy wit in an instant? I pray thee understand a
whores, sir, being members of my occupation, using painting, do
wield?                                         Exit BARDOLPH
will bethink me. May I speak with Antonio?
will come into the court and swear that I have a poor pennyworth
will desire; and seven hundred pounds of moneys, and
will do anything, Nerissa, ere I will be married to a sponge.
will entertain Bardolph; he shall draw, he shall tap; said I
will grow to a most prosperous perfection.
will hack; and so thou shouldst not alter the article of thy
will keep the house.
will not fail her.
will not stay long. What, John Rugby! John! what, John,
will run.
will thrive, lads, we will thrive.
will you do to content this substitute, and to save your brother?
wisdom of the world. This news is old enough, yet it is every
wisely.
with divines, and have all charitable preparation. If my brother
with ear'? Why, it is affectations.
with ease attempt you, I will go further than I meant, to pluck
with poison; I will possess him with yellowness; for the
with the King of Hungary, why then all the dukes fall upon the
with the edge of a feather-bed-here are simple scapes. Well, if
with the gallows, and what with poverty, I am custom-shrunk.
with the maid; my mind promises with my habit no loss shall touch
with you, coz; marry, this, coz: there is, as 'twere, a
with you.           Exeunt MISTRESS PAGE, MISTRESS FORD, and
with you. What news on the Rialto? Who is he comes here?
within and that temptation without, I know he will choose it. I
without bidding.
wives are a yoke of his discarded men; very rogues, now
woman's head.
woman.
woman; whose house, sir, was, as they say, pluck'd down in the
word, he hath, believe me; Robert Shallow, esquire, saith
world drink brown and white bastard.
worship more of the wart the next time we have confidence;
worship that her husband is seldom from home, but she
worship's a wanton! Well, heaven forgive you, and all of
worship's pleasure I shall do with this wicked caitiff?
worship; and my suit is-
worships' company.
wot of, unless they kept very good diet, as I told you-
would desire you to send her your little page of all loves.
would do reason.
would have gone to the truth of his words; but they do no
would not have you acquainted with tapsters: they will draw you,
wrangle with mine own honesty. I'll entertain myself like
wreck'd at sea, having in that perished vessel the dowry of his
wring, brew, bake, scour, dress meat and drink, make the
wrought by my pity, it should not be so with him.
year together, you'll be glad to give out a commission for more
year, in th' afternoon.
yet to come that she was ever respected with man, woman, or
you anon, for some advantage to yourself.
you are partly a bawd, Pompey, howsoever you colour it in being a
you from your gyves; if not, you shall have your full time of
you have been a notorious bawd.
you have said.
you of young Master Launcelot?
you pardon me; he's a justice of peace in his country,
you prick us, do we not bleed? If you tickle us, do we not laugh?
you should refuse to perform your father's will, if you should
you tell me, is my boy- God rest his soul!- alive or dead?
you that have worn your eyes almost out in the service, you will
you that wrong.
you understand me?
you'll be laugh'd at.
you'll forswear this again.
you, sell with you, talk with you, walk with you, and so
you, sir?
you.
you.
you.
you.
young for your sake, Mistress Anne!
your bold-beating oaths, under the shelter of your honour!
your cat-a-mountain looks, your red-lattice phrases, and
your fresh whore and your powder'd bawd- an unshunn'd
your honour mark his face?
your love do not persuade you to come, let not my letter.'
your master's desires to Mistress Anne Page. I pray you
your own gracious person; and much please the absent Duke, if
your stay with him may not be long; that the time may have all
your will?
your worship shall know by this honest old man; and, though I say
your worship will take order for the drabs and the knaves, you
heard of the proclamation, have you?
that you are not the Jew's daughter.
A JUSTICE
ABHORSON, an executioner
ABHORSON. A bawd, sir? Fie upon him! He will discredit our mystery.
ABHORSON. Ay, sir; a mystery.
ABHORSON. Come on, bawd; I will instruct thee in my trade; follow.
ABHORSON. Do you call, sir?
ABHORSON. Every true man's apparel fits your thief: if it be too
ABHORSON. Go in to him, and fetch him out.
ABHORSON. Is the axe upon the block, sirrah?
ABHORSON. Look you, sir, here comes your ghostly father.
ABHORSON. Sir, it is a mystery.
ABHORSON. Sirrah, bring Barnardine hither.
ABHORSON. Tell him he must awake, and that quickly too.
ABHORSON. Truly, sir, I would desire you to clap into your prayers;
ABHORSON. What ho, Barnardine!
ALL.           Ding, dong, bell.
ALL. Hail, King of Scotland!                         Flourish.
ANGELO, ESCALUS. Happy return be to your royal Grace!
ANGELO, the Deputy
ANGELO. 'Tis one thing to be tempted, Escalus,
ANGELO. 'Tis so with me. Let us withdraw together,
ANGELO. Admit no other way to save his life,
ANGELO. Always obedient to your Grace's will,
ANGELO. And his offence is so, as it appears,
ANGELO. And she will speak most bitterly and strange.
ANGELO. And why should we proclaim it in an hour before his
ANGELO. At any time 'fore noon.
ANGELO. Be you content, fair maid.
ANGELO. Believe me, on mine honour,
ANGELO. Benefactors! Well- what benefactors are they? Are they not
ANGELO. Charges she moe than me?
ANGELO. Condemn the fault and not the actor of it!
ANGELO. Did not I tell thee yea? Hadst thou not order?
ANGELO. Dispose of her
ANGELO. From thee; even from thy virtue!
ANGELO. Go to; let that be mine.
ANGELO. Go to; what quality are they of? Elbow is your name? Why
ANGELO. Good night.                               Exit ESCALUS
ANGELO. Ha! Fie, these filthy vices! It were as good
ANGELO. Hark how the villain would close now, after his treasonable
ANGELO. Hath he a sister?
ANGELO. He shall not, Isabel, if you give me love.
ANGELO. He's sentenc'd; 'tis too late.
ANGELO. How now, sir! What's your name, and what's the matter?
ANGELO. How, bribe me?
ANGELO. I am sorry that such sorrow I procure;
ANGELO. I did but smile till now.
ANGELO. I show it most of all when I show justice;
ANGELO. I talk not of your soul; our compell'd sins
ANGELO. I think it well;
ANGELO. I was, my lord.
ANGELO. I will bethink me. Come again to-morrow.
ANGELO. I will not do't.
ANGELO. In most uneven and distracted manner. His actions show much
ANGELO. Look, what I will not, that I cannot do.
ANGELO. Maiden, no remedy.
ANGELO. My lord, I must confess I know this woman;
ANGELO. My lord, her wits, I fear me, are not firm;
ANGELO. Nay, I'll not warrant that; for I can speak
ANGELO. Nay, but hear me;
ANGELO. Nay, women are frail too.
ANGELO. Now, good my lord,
ANGELO. Now, what's the matter, Provost?
ANGELO. O my dread lord,
ANGELO. Plainly conceive, I love you.
ANGELO. Pleas'd you to do't at peril of your soul,
ANGELO. Pray you be gone.
ANGELO. Say you so? Then I shall pose you quickly.
ANGELO. See that Claudio
ANGELO. Stay a little while. [To ISABELLA] Y'are welcome; what's
ANGELO. Teach her the way. [Exit SERVANT] O heavens!
ANGELO. That you might know it would much better please me
ANGELO. The heavens give safety to your purposes!
ANGELO. The law hath not been dead, though it hath slept.
ANGELO. Then must your brother die.
ANGELO. This is a strange abuse. Let's see thy face.
ANGELO. This will last out a night in Russia,
ANGELO. Thus wisdom wishes to appear most bright
ANGELO. We are all frail.
ANGELO. We must not make a scarecrow of the law,
ANGELO. Well, I beseech you, let it be proclaim'd;
ANGELO. Well, let her be admitted.                Exit SERVANT
ANGELO. Well; come to me to-morrow.
ANGELO. Well; the matter?
ANGELO. Well; what's your suit?
ANGELO. Were not you, then, as cruel as the sentence
ANGELO. What are you, sir?
ANGELO. What can you vouch against him, Signior Lucio?
ANGELO. What, resists he? Help him, Lucio.
ANGELO. When I would pray and think, I think and pray
ANGELO. Where is the Provost?
ANGELO. Who will believe thee, Isabel?
ANGELO. Why do you put these sayings upon me?
ANGELO. Yea.
ANGELO. Yet give leave, my lord,
ANGELO. Yet may he live awhile, and, it may be,
ANGELO. You make my bonds still greater.
ANGELO. You seem'd of late to make the law a tyrant;
ANGELO. Your brother is a forfeit of the law,
ANGELO. [Aside] Amen; for I
ANGELO. [Aside] She speaks, and 'tis
ANNE. Ay, indeed, sir.
ANNE. I may not go in without your worship; they will not
ANNE. I pray you, sir, walk in.
ANNE. I pray you, sir.
ANNE. I think there are, sir; I heard them talk'd of.
ANNE. Not I, sir; pray you keep on.
ANNE. The dinner attends you, sir.
ANNE. The dinner is on the table; my father desires your
ANNE. Will't please your worship to come in, sir?
ANTONIO, a merchant of Venice
ANTONIO.  [Aside]  Mark you this, Bassanio,
ANTONIO. And for three months.
ANTONIO. And stand indebted, over and above,
ANTONIO. And what of him? Did he take interest?
ANTONIO. Ay, so he says.
ANTONIO. Believe me, no; I thank my fortune for it,
ANTONIO. But little: I am arm'd and well prepar'd.
ANTONIO. Come on; in this there can be no dismay;
ANTONIO. Content, in faith; I'll seal to such a bond,
ANTONIO. Fare you well; I'll grow a talker for this gear.
ANTONIO. Fie, fie!
ANTONIO. Fie, fie, Gratiano, where are all the rest?
ANTONIO. Hear me yet, good Shylock.
ANTONIO. Here, Lord Bassanio, swear to keep this ring.
ANTONIO. Hie thee, gentle Jew.                    Exit SHYLOCK
ANTONIO. I am a tainted wether of the flock,
ANTONIO. I am as like to call thee so again,
ANTONIO. I am dumb.
ANTONIO. I am th' unhappy subject of these quarrels.
ANTONIO. I do never use it.
ANTONIO. I do.
ANTONIO. I have heard
ANTONIO. I hold the world but as the world, Gratiano-
ANTONIO. I once did lend my body for his wealth,
ANTONIO. I pray thee hear me speak.
ANTONIO. I pray you, good Bassanio, let me know it;
ANTONIO. I pray you, think you question with the Jew.
ANTONIO. In sooth, I know not why I am so sad.
ANTONIO. Is that anything now?
ANTONIO. Let him alone;
ANTONIO. Most heartily I do beseech the court
ANTONIO. My Lord Bassanio, let him have the ring.
ANTONIO. No more than I am well acquitted of.
ANTONIO. Ready, so please your Grace.
ANTONIO. Shylock, albeit I neither lend nor borrow
ANTONIO. So please my lord the Duke and all the court
ANTONIO. Sweet lady, you have given me life and living;
ANTONIO. The Duke cannot deny the course of law;
ANTONIO. This was a venture, sir, that Jacob serv'd for;
ANTONIO. Thou know'st that all my fortunes are at sea;
ANTONIO. Well, Shylock, shall we be beholding to you?
ANTONIO. Well; tell me now what lady is the same
ANTONIO. Who's there?
ANTONIO. Why, fear not, man; I will not forfeit it;
ANTONIO. Yes, Shylock, I will seal unto this bond.
ANTONIO. You know me well, and herein spend but time
ANTONIO. Your worth is very dear in my regard.
ARRAGON. And so have I address'd me. Fortune now
ARRAGON. I am enjoin'd by oath to observe three things:
ARRAGON. What is here?  [Reads]
ARRAGON. What's here? The portrait of a blinking idiot
BALTHASAR, servant to Portia
BALTHASAR. Madam, I go with all convenient speed.         Exit
BARDOLPH
BARDOLPH. And being fap, sir, was, as they say, cashier'd;
BARDOLPH. It is a life that I have desir'd; I will thrive.
BARDOLPH. Why, sir, for my part, I say the gentleman had
BARDOLPH. You Banbury cheese!
BARNARDINE, a dissolute prisoner
BARNARDINE. Friar, not I; I have been drinking hard all night, and
BARNARDINE. How now, Abhorson, what's the news with you?
BARNARDINE. I swear I will not die to-day for any man's persuasion.
BARNARDINE. Not a word; if you have anything to say to me, come to
BARNARDINE. You rogue, I have been drinking all night; I am not
BARNARDINE. [ Within ] Away, you rogue, away; I am sleepy.
BARNARDINE. [Within] A pox o' your throats! Who makes that noise
BASSANIO, his friend, suitor to Portia
BASSANIO.  [Aside]  Why, I were best to cut my left hand off,
BASSANIO.  [Opening the leaden casket]  What find I here?
BASSANIO.  [Reads]  'Sweet Bassanio, my ships have all miscarried,
BASSANIO. 'Confess' and 'love'
BASSANIO. 'Tis not unknown to you, Antonio,
BASSANIO. And do you, Gratiano, mean good faith?
BASSANIO. Antonio, I am married to a wife
BASSANIO. Ay, sir, for three months.
BASSANIO. Be assur'd you may.
BASSANIO. By heaven, it is the same I gave the doctor!
BASSANIO. Dear sir, of force I must attempt you further;
BASSANIO. Do all men kill the things they do not love?
BASSANIO. Ere I ope his letter,
BASSANIO. Every offence is not a hate at first.
BASSANIO. For me, three thousand ducats.
BASSANIO. For the which, as I told you, Antonio shall be bound.
BASSANIO. For thy three thousand ducats here is six.
BASSANIO. Go, Gratiano, run and overtake him;
BASSANIO. Good cheer, Antonio! What, man, courage yet!
BASSANIO. Good signiors both, when shall we laugh? Say when.
BASSANIO. Good sir, this ring was given me by my wife;
BASSANIO. Gramercy; wouldst thou aught with me?
BASSANIO. Gratiano speaks an infinite deal of nothing, more than
BASSANIO. Gratiano!
BASSANIO. Have you heard any imputation to the contrary?
BASSANIO. Here is the money.
BASSANIO. I have it ready for thee; here it is.
BASSANIO. I know thee well; thou hast obtain'd thy suit.
BASSANIO. I like not fair terms and a villain's mind.
BASSANIO. I pray thee, good Leonardo, think on this.
BASSANIO. I thank you, madam; give welcome to my friend.
BASSANIO. I will not fail you.
BASSANIO. If I could add a lie unto a fault,
BASSANIO. If it please you to dine with us.
BASSANIO. In Belmont is a lady richly left,
BASSANIO. In my school-days, when I had lost one shaft,
BASSANIO. Let me choose;
BASSANIO. Lorenzo and Salerio, welcome hither,
BASSANIO. Madam, you have bereft me of all words;
BASSANIO. May you stead me? Will you pleasure me? Shall I know your
BASSANIO. Most worthy gentleman, I and my friend
BASSANIO. Nay, but hear me.
BASSANIO. No, by my honour, madam, by my soul,
BASSANIO. No, that were pity;
BASSANIO. None but that ugly treason of mistrust
BASSANIO. O sweet Portia,
BASSANIO. One speak for both. What would you?
BASSANIO. Our feast shall be much honoured in your marriage.
BASSANIO. Portia, forgive me this enforced wrong;
BASSANIO. Promise me life, and I'll confess the truth.
BASSANIO. Shylock, do you hear?
BASSANIO. Since I have your good leave to go away,
BASSANIO. So may the outward shows be least themselves;
BASSANIO. Sweet Portia,
BASSANIO. Sweet doctor, you shall be my bedfellow;
BASSANIO. The dearest friend to me, the kindest man,
BASSANIO. This is Signior Antonio.
BASSANIO. This is no answer, thou unfeeling man,
BASSANIO. This ring, good sir- alas, it is a trifle;
BASSANIO. This were kindness.
BASSANIO. Thou speak'st it well. Go, father, with thy son.
BASSANIO. We should hold day with the Antipodes,
BASSANIO. Well, we shall see your bearing.
BASSANIO. Were you the doctor, and I knew you not?
BASSANIO. Why dost thou whet thy knife so earnestly?
BASSANIO. Why, then you must. But hear thee, Gratiano:
BASSANIO. With all my heart, so thou canst get a wife.
BASSANIO. Yes; here I tender it for him in the court;
BASSANIO. You have obtain'd it.
BASSANIO. You may do so; but let it be so hasted that supper be
BASSANIO. You shall not seal to such a bond for me;
BASSANIO. Your answer to that.
BASSANIO.. There's more depends on this than on the value.
CAIUS. Fe, fe, fe fe! ma foi, il fait fort chaud. Je m'en vais a
CAIUS. It is no matter-a ver dat. Do not you tell-a me dat I
CAIUS. O diable, diable! vat is in my closet? Villainy! larron!
CAIUS. Oui; mette le au mon pocket: depeche, quickly. Vere
CAIUS. Peace-a your tongue. Speak-a your tale.
CAIUS. Rugby, come to the court with me. By gar, if I have
CAIUS. Sir Hugh send-a you? Rugby, baillez me some paper.
CAIUS. Vat is you sing? I do not like des toys. Pray you, go
CAIUS. Vell?
CAIUS. What shall de honest man do in my closet? Dere is
CAIUS. Wherefore shall I be content-a?
CAIUS. You are John Rugby, and you are Jack Rugby.
CAIUS. You jack'nape; give-a this letter to Sir Hugh; by gar,
CLAUDIO, a young gentleman
CLAUDIO. As fast lock'd up in sleep as guiltless labour
CLAUDIO. Ay, but to die, and go we know not where;
CLAUDIO. But in what nature?
CLAUDIO. But is there any?
CLAUDIO. Call it so.
CLAUDIO. Come, officer, away.                           Exeunt
CLAUDIO. Death is a fearful thing.
CLAUDIO. Fellow, why dost thou show me thus to th' world?
CLAUDIO. From too much liberty, my Lucio, liberty;
CLAUDIO. I have done so, but he's not to be found.
CLAUDIO. I humbly thank you.
CLAUDIO. I thank you, good friend Lucio.
CLAUDIO. If it were damnable, he being so wise,
CLAUDIO. Is there no remedy?
CLAUDIO. Let me ask my sister pardon. I am so out of love with life
CLAUDIO. Let me know the point.
CLAUDIO. Most holy sir, I thank you.
CLAUDIO. Nay, hear me, Isabel.
CLAUDIO. No.
CLAUDIO. Now, sister, what's the comfort?
CLAUDIO. O heavens! it cannot be.
CLAUDIO. O, hear me, Isabella.
CLAUDIO. One word, good friend. Lucio, a word with you.
CLAUDIO. Perpetual durance?
CLAUDIO. Sweet sister, let me live.
CLAUDIO. Thanks, dear Isabel.
CLAUDIO. The miserable have no other medicine
CLAUDIO. The precise Angelo!
CLAUDIO. Thou shalt not do't.
CLAUDIO. Thus can the demigod Authority
CLAUDIO. Thus stands it with me: upon a true contract
CLAUDIO. Unhappily, even so.
CLAUDIO. What but to speak of would offend again.
CLAUDIO. Why give you me this shame?
CLAUDIO. Yes. Has he affections in him
CLERK.  [Reads]  'Your Grace shall understand that at the receipt
DOCTOR CAIUS, a French physician
DUKE OF VENICE. Antonio and old Shylock, both stand forth.
DUKE OF VENICE. Bring us the letters; call the messenger.
DUKE OF VENICE. Came you from Padua, from Bellario?
DUKE OF VENICE. Get thee gone, but do it.
DUKE OF VENICE. Go one, and call the Jew into the court.
DUKE OF VENICE. He shall do this, or else I do recant
DUKE OF VENICE. How shalt thou hope for mercy, rend'ring none?
DUKE OF VENICE. I am sorry for thee; thou art come to answer
DUKE OF VENICE. I am sorry that your leisure serves you not.
DUKE OF VENICE. Make room, and let him stand before our face.
DUKE OF VENICE. Sir, I entreat you home with me to dinner.
DUKE OF VENICE. That thou shalt see the difference of our spirit,
DUKE OF VENICE. This letter from Bellario doth commend
DUKE OF VENICE. Upon my power I may dismiss this court,
DUKE OF VENICE. What, is Antonio here?
DUKE OF VENICE. With all my heart. Some three or four of you
DUKE OF VENICE. YOU hear the learn'd Bellario, what he writes;
DUKE OF VENICE. You are welcome; take your place.
DUKE. 'Tis false.
DUKE. 'Tis good; though music oft hath such a charm
DUKE. 'Tis meet so, daughter; but lest you do repent
DUKE. 'Tis not possible.
DUKE. 'Tis well borne up.
DUKE. A creature unprepar'd, unmeet for death;
DUKE. A ghostly father, belike. Who knows that Lodowick?
DUKE. A widow, then?
DUKE. Against all sense you do importune her.
DUKE. And here comes Claudio's pardon.
DUKE. And you, good brother father. What offence hath this man made
DUKE. And you.
DUKE. Angelo,
DUKE. Are there no other tokens
DUKE. Are you a maid?
DUKE. As near the dawning, Provost, as it is,
DUKE. Away with her. Poor soul,
DUKE. Ay, with my heart;
DUKE. Be absolute for death; either death or life
DUKE. Be not so hot; the Duke
DUKE. Bliss and goodness on you!
DUKE. Boldly, at least. But, O, poor souls,
DUKE. Bound by my charity and my blest order,
DUKE. Bring me to hear them speak, where I may be conceal'd.
DUKE. But hear you-
DUKE. But shall you on your knowledge find this way?
DUKE. By heaven, fond wretch, thou know'st not what thou speak'st,
DUKE. By mine honesty,
DUKE. By the vow of mine order, I warrant you, if my instructions
DUKE. Come hither, Isabel.
DUKE. Come hither, Mariana.
DUKE. Convenient is it. Make a swift return;
DUKE. Dear sir, ere long I'll visit you again.
DUKE. Did you such a thing?
DUKE. Do you persuade yourself that I respect you?
DUKE. Either this is envy in you, folly, or mistaking; the very
DUKE. Escalus!
DUKE. Fie, sirrah, a bawd, a wicked bawd!
DUKE. For the benefit of silence, would thou wert so too!
DUKE. For this new-married man approaching here,
DUKE. For which I do discharge you of your office;
DUKE. Go, do it instantly.                        Exit PROVOST
DUKE. Go, take her hence and marry her instantly.
DUKE. Good friar, let's hear it.         Exit ISABELLA guarded
DUKE. Good morning to you, fair and gracious daughter.
DUKE. Had you a special warrant for the deed?
DUKE. Hail to you, Provost! so I think you are.
DUKE. Hath he borne himself penitently in prison? How seems he to
DUKE. Have you no countermand for Claudio yet
DUKE. He dies for Claudio's death.
DUKE. He does well in't.
DUKE. He hath releas'd him, Isabel, from the world.
DUKE. He professes to have received no sinister measure from his
DUKE. He shall know you better, sir, if I may live to report you.
DUKE. He wants advice.
DUKE. Hold you there. Farewell. [Exit CLAUDIO] Provost, a word with
DUKE. How came it that the absent Duke had not either deliver'd him
DUKE. How should he be made, then?
DUKE. I can hardly believe that, since you know not what you speak.
DUKE. I do constantly believe you. The time is come even now. I
DUKE. I do fear, too dreadful.
DUKE. I know none. Can you tell me of any?
DUKE. I know not where; but wheresoever, I wish him well.
DUKE. I know you'd fain be gone. An officer!
DUKE. I never heard the absent Duke much detected for women; he was
DUKE. I protest I love the Duke as I love myself.
DUKE. I remember you, sir, by the sound of your voice. I met you at
DUKE. I thank thee, Varrius; thou hast made good haste.
DUKE. I thank you. Fare you well.                         Exit
DUKE. I wish you now, then;
DUKE. I would thou hadst done so by Claudio.
DUKE. I'll teach you how you shall arraign your conscience,
DUKE. If his own life answer the straitness of his proceeding, it
DUKE. In the delaying death.
DUKE. It is a rupture that you may easily heal; and the cure of it
DUKE. It is no other.
DUKE. It is not my consent,
DUKE. It is now apparent?
DUKE. It is too general a vice, and severity must cure it.
DUKE. It is your husband mock'd you with a husband.
DUKE. It lies much in your holding up. Haste you speedily to
DUKE. It may be right; but you are i' the wrong
DUKE. Know you this woman?
DUKE. Left her in her tears, and dried not one of them with his
DUKE. Let this be done:
DUKE. Look where he comes.
DUKE. Love talks with better knowledge, and knowledge with dearer
DUKE. Love you the man that wrong'd you?
DUKE. Many and hearty thankings to you both.
DUKE. Many that are not mad
DUKE. Mended again. The matter- proceed.
DUKE. Might you dispense with your leisure, I would by and by have
DUKE. More of him anon. There is written in your brow, Provost,
DUKE. Most notedly, sir.
DUKE. My haste may not admit it;
DUKE. My holy sir, none better knows than you
DUKE. My very worthy cousin, fairly met!
DUKE. Nay, if the devil have given thee proofs for sin,
DUKE. Nay, it is ten times strange.
DUKE. Never crave him; we are definitive.
DUKE. No might nor greatness in mortality
DUKE. No more evasion!
DUKE. No, holy father; throw away that thought;
DUKE. No? You say your husband.
DUKE. None, but that there is so great a fever on goodness that the
DUKE. Nor, gentle daughter, fear you not at all.
DUKE. Not Isabel?
DUKE. Not a resemblance, but a certainty. Yet since I see you
DUKE. Not of this country, though my chance is now
DUKE. Not so, not so; his life is parallel'd
DUKE. Not within, sir.
DUKE. O heavens! what stuff is here?
DUKE. O place and greatness! Millions of false eyes
DUKE. O, 'tis an accident that heaven provides!
DUKE. O, Sir, you must; and therefore I beseech you
DUKE. O, death's a great disguiser; and you may add to it. Shave
DUKE. O, you hope the Duke will return no more; or you imagine me
DUKE. O, your desert speaks loud; and I should wrong it
DUKE. Of government the properties to unfold
DUKE. Peace be with you!            Exeunt ESCALUS and PROVOST
DUKE. Pray you, let's hear.
DUKE. Provost, a word with you.
DUKE. Quick, dispatch, and send the head to Angelo.
DUKE. Relate your wrongs. In what? By whom? Be brief.
DUKE. Repent you, fair one, of the sin you carry?
DUKE. Respect to your great place! and let the devil
DUKE. She should this Angelo have married; was affianced to her by
DUKE. Silence that fellow. I would he had some cause
DUKE. Sir, induced by my charity, and hearing how hastily you are
DUKE. Sir, the Duke is marvellous little beholding to your reports;
DUKE. Sir, your company is fairer than honest. Rest you well.
DUKE. Sirrah, no more.
DUKE. Slandering a prince deserves it.
DUKE. So then, it seems, your most offenceful act
DUKE. So, then you hope of pardon from Lord Angelo?
DUKE. Son, I have overheard what hath pass'd between you and your
DUKE. Stay, sir; stay awhile.
DUKE. Still thus, and thus; still worse!
DUKE. Take, then, this your companion by the hand,
DUKE. That shall not be much amiss; yet, as the matter now stands,
DUKE. That we were all, as some would seem to be,
DUKE. That's somewhat madly spoken.
DUKE. That, now you are come, you will be gone. Leave me a while
DUKE. The best and wholesom'st spirits of the night
DUKE. The contents of this is the return of the Duke; you shall
DUKE. The hand that hath made you fair hath made you good; the
DUKE. The tongue of Isabel. She's come to know
DUKE. The warrant's for yourself; take heed to't.
DUKE. Then was your sin of heavier kind than his.
DUKE. There rest.
DUKE. There was a friar told me of this man.
DUKE. There's some in hope.
DUKE. These letters at fit time deliver me.   [Giving letters]
DUKE. They will then, ere't be long.
DUKE. This forenamed maid hath yet in her the continuance of her
DUKE. This is most likely!
DUKE. This is no witness for Lord Angelo.
DUKE. This letter, then, to Friar Peter give;
DUKE. This nor hurts him nor profits you a jot;
DUKE. Thou art the first knave that e'er mad'st a duke.
DUKE. Unfit to live or die. O gravel heart!
DUKE. Upon mine honour, thou shalt marry her.
DUKE. Very well met, and well come.
DUKE. Virtue is bold, and goodness never fearful. Have you not
DUKE. Vouchsafe a word, young sister, but one word.
DUKE. We did believe no less.
DUKE. We have strict statutes and most biting laws,
DUKE. Well, you'll answer this one day. Fare ye well.
DUKE. Were you sworn to the Duke, or to the deputy?
DUKE. What is that Barnardine who is to be executed in th'
DUKE. What pleasure was he given to?
DUKE. What's he?
DUKE. What, I prithee, might be the cause?
DUKE. What, are you married?
DUKE. When must he die?
DUKE. Which is that Barnardine?
DUKE. Whipt first, sir, and hang'd after.
DUKE. Why should he die, sir?
DUKE. Why, you are nothing then; neither maid, widow, nor wife.
DUKE. Wise? Why, no question but he was.
DUKE. Words against me? This's a good friar, belike!
DUKE. You are pardon'd, Isabel.
DUKE. You are pleasant, sir, and speak apace.
DUKE. You do but lose your labour.
DUKE. You do him wrong, surely.
DUKE. You have told me too many of him already, sir, if they be
DUKE. You must, sir, change persons with me ere you make that my
DUKE. You shall not be admitted to his sight.
DUKE. You were not bid to speak.
DUKE. You will think you have made no offence if the Duke avouch
DUKE. Your suit's unprofitable; stand up, I say.
DUKE. [Aside] This is his pardon, purchas'd by such sin
DUKE. [To ESCALUS] What you have spoke I pardon; sit you down.
DUKE. [To ISABELLA] If he be like your brother, for his sake
ELBOW, a simple constable
ELBOW. And a half, sir.
ELBOW. Ay, sir, by Mistress Overdone's means; but as she spit in
ELBOW. Ay, sir; whom I thank heaven, is an honest woman-
ELBOW. Come your way, sir. Bless you, good father friar.
ELBOW. Come your ways, sir; come.
ELBOW. Come your ways, sir; come.
ELBOW. Come, bring them away; if these be good people in a
ELBOW. Faith, sir, few of any wit in such matters; as they are
ELBOW. First, an it like you, the house is a respected house; next,
ELBOW. For being a bawd, for being a bawd.
ELBOW. He must before the deputy, sir; he has given him warning.
ELBOW. He, sir? A tapster, sir; parcel-bawd; one that serves a bad
ELBOW. His neck will come to your waist- a cord, sir.
ELBOW. I beseech you, sir, ask him what this man did to my wife.
ELBOW. I say, sir, I will detest myself also, as well as she, that
ELBOW. If it please your honour, I am the poor Duke's constable,
ELBOW. If it please your honour, I know not well what they are; but
ELBOW. Marry, I thank your good worship for it. What is't your
ELBOW. Marry, I thank your worship for it. Thou seest, thou wicked
ELBOW. Marry, sir, by my wife; who, if she had been a woman
ELBOW. Marry, sir, he hath offended the law; and, sir, we take him
ELBOW. My Wife, sir, whom I detest before heaven and your honour-
ELBOW. Nay, if there be no remedy for it, but that you will needs
ELBOW. O thou caitiff! O thou varlet! O thou wicked Hannibal! I
ELBOW. Prove it before these varlets here, thou honourable man,
ELBOW. Seven year and a half, sir.
ELBOW. To your worship's house, sir?
ELBOW. Varlet, thou liest; thou liest, wicket varlet; the time is
ESCALUS, an ancient Lord
ESCALUS. Alas, it hath been great pains to you! They do you wrong
ESCALUS. Are you of fourscore pounds a year?
ESCALUS. Ay, but yet
ESCALUS. Ay, sir, very well.
ESCALUS. Be it as your wisdom will.
ESCALUS. But the law will not allow it, Pompey; nor it shall not be
ESCALUS. By the woman's means?
ESCALUS. Call that same Isabel here once again; I would speak with
ESCALUS. Come hither to me, Master Elbow; come hither, Master
ESCALUS. Come on, mistress; here's a gentlewoman denies all that
ESCALUS. Come, sir; did you set these women on to slander Lord
ESCALUS. Come, you are a tedious fool. To the purpose: what was
ESCALUS. Do you hear how he misplaces?
ESCALUS. Dost thou detest her therefore?
ESCALUS. Double and treble admonition, and still forfeit in the
ESCALUS. Every letter he hath writ hath disvouch'd other.
ESCALUS. Go to, go to; no matter for the dish, sir.
ESCALUS. Go, away with her to prison.
ESCALUS. Good even, good father.
ESCALUS. Hath she had any more than one husband?
ESCALUS. He shows his reason for that: to have a dispatch of
ESCALUS. He's in the right, constable; what say you to it?
ESCALUS. How dost thou know that, constable?
ESCALUS. How know you that?
ESCALUS. How would you live, Pompey- by being a bawd? What do you
ESCALUS. How! Know you where you are?
ESCALUS. How! thy wife!
ESCALUS. I am going to visit the prisoner. Fare you well.
ESCALUS. I am sorry one so learned and so wise
ESCALUS. I guess not.
ESCALUS. I pray you home to dinner with me.
ESCALUS. I shall desire you, sir, to give me leave
ESCALUS. I shall, sir; fare you well.
ESCALUS. I think no less. Good morrow to your lordship.
ESCALUS. I thought, by the readiness in the office, you had
ESCALUS. I will go darkly to work with her.
ESCALUS. I'll wait upon your honour.                    Exeunt
ESCALUS. If any in Vienna be of worth
ESCALUS. If he took you a box o' th' ear, you might have your
ESCALUS. In very good time. Speak not you to him till we call upon
ESCALUS. It grieves me for the death of Claudio;
ESCALUS. It is but needful:
ESCALUS. Lead forth and bring you back in happiness!
ESCALUS. Look you, bring me in the names of some six or seven, the
ESCALUS. My lord, I am more amaz'd at his dishonour
ESCALUS. My lord, we'll do it throughly.             Exit DUKE
ESCALUS. My lord.
ESCALUS. Nine! Come hither to me, Master Froth. Master Froth, I
ESCALUS. No, Pompey.
ESCALUS. No, sir, nor I mean it not.
ESCALUS. Of whence are you?
ESCALUS. One that, above all other strifes, contended especially to
ESCALUS. Rather rejoicing to see another merry than merry at
ESCALUS. Say you?
ESCALUS. Slander to th' state! Away with him to prison!
ESCALUS. So. What trade are you of, sir?
ESCALUS. Such a fellow is not to be talk'd withal. Away with him to
ESCALUS. Thank you, good Pompey; and, in requital of your prophecy,
ESCALUS. That fellow is a fellow of much license. Let him be call'd
ESCALUS. The Duke's in us; and we will hear you speak;
ESCALUS. There is pretty orders beginning, I can tell you: but it
ESCALUS. This comes off well; here's a wise officer.
ESCALUS. To my house. Fare you well.              [Exit ELBOW]
ESCALUS. Troth, and your bum is the greatest thing about you; so
ESCALUS. Truly, officer, because he hath some offences in him that
ESCALUS. We shall entreat you to abide here till he come and
ESCALUS. Well, I do so.
ESCALUS. Well, no more of it, Master Froth; farewell. [Exit FROTH]
ESCALUS. Well, sir, what did this gentleman to her?
ESCALUS. What else?
ESCALUS. What news abroad i' th' world?
ESCALUS. Where were you born, friend?
ESCALUS. Which is the wiser here, Justice or Iniquity? Is this
ESCALUS. Why, no.
ESCALUS. Why, thou unreverend and unhallowed friar,
ESCALUS. You have paid the heavens your function, and the prisoner
ESCALUS. Your mistress' name?
ESCALUS. [Aside] Well, heaven forgive him! and forgive us all!
EVANS. Ay, and her father is make her a petter penny.
EVANS. But can you affection the oman? Let us command to
EVANS. But that is not the question. The question is
EVANS. Fery goot. I will make a prief of it in my note-book;
EVANS. Give ear to his motions: Master Slender, I will
EVANS. Go your ways, and ask of Doctor Caius' house which
EVANS. Here is Got's plessing, and your friend, and Justice
EVANS. It is a fery discretion answer, save the fall is in the
EVANS. It is his five senses; fie, what the ignorance is!
EVANS. It is marring indeed, if he quarter it.
EVANS. It is not meet the Council hear a riot; there is no
EVANS. It is petter that friends is the sword and end it;
EVANS. It is spoke as a Christians ought to speak.
EVANS. It is that fery person for all the orld, as just as you
EVANS. Marry is it; the very point of it; to Mistress Anne
EVANS. Nay, Got's lords and his ladies! you must speak possitable,
EVANS. Nay, it is petter yet. Give her this letter; for it is a
EVANS. No, it is false, if it is a pick-purse.
EVANS. Od's plessed will! I will not be absence at the grace.
EVANS. Pauca verba, Sir John; goot worts.
EVANS. Peace, I pray you. Now let us understand. There is
EVANS. Seven hundred pounds, and possibilities, is goot gifts.
EVANS. Shall I tell you a lie? I do despise a liar as I do
EVANS. So Got udge me, that is a virtuous mind.
EVANS. The dozen white louses do become an old coat well;
EVANS. The tevil and his tam! What phrase is this, 'He hears
EVANS. Yes, py'r lady! If he has a quarter of your coat, there
FALSTAFF.  [To ROBIN]  Hold, sirrah; bear you these letters
FALSTAFF. 'Twere better for you if it were known in counsel:
FALSTAFF. Bardolph, follow him. A tapster is a good trade;
FALSTAFF. But not kiss'd your keeper's daughter.
FALSTAFF. But what says she to me? Be brief, my good she-
FALSTAFF. But, I pray thee, tell me this: has Ford's wife and
FALSTAFF. Do so, good mine host.
FALSTAFF. Fare thee well; commend me to them both.
FALSTAFF. Good maid, then.
FALSTAFF. Good morrow, good wife.
FALSTAFF. Good worts! good cabbage! Slender, I broke your
FALSTAFF. I am glad I am so acquit of this tinder-box: his
FALSTAFF. I do believe the swearer. What with me?
FALSTAFF. I have writ me here a letter to her; and here
FALSTAFF. I sit at ten pounds a week.
FALSTAFF. I warrant thee nobody hears-mine own people,
FALSTAFF. I will answer it straight: I have done all this.
FALSTAFF. I will not lend thee a penny.
FALSTAFF. Is this true, Pistol?
FALSTAFF. Let her approach.
FALSTAFF. Mine host of the Garter!
FALSTAFF. Mistress Ford, by my troth, you are very well
FALSTAFF. Mistress Ford; come, Mistress Ford-
FALSTAFF. My honest lads, I will tell you what I am about.
FALSTAFF. No quips now, Pistol. Indeed, I am in the waist
FALSTAFF. Not I, I assure thee; setting the attraction of my
FALSTAFF. Not a penny.
FALSTAFF. Not a penny. I have been content, sir, you should
FALSTAFF. Now, Master Shallow, you'll complain of me to
FALSTAFF. Now, the report goes she has all the rule of her
FALSTAFF. O, she did so course o'er my exteriors with such
FALSTAFF. Pistol!
FALSTAFF. Pistol, did you pick Master Slender's purse?
FALSTAFF. Reason, you rogue, reason. Think'st thou I'll
FALSTAFF. Ten and eleven. Woman, commend me to her; I
FALSTAFF. Ten and eleven?
FALSTAFF. There is no remedy; I must cony-catch; I must
FALSTAFF. Truly, mine host, I must turn away some of my
FALSTAFF. Two thousand, fair woman; and I'll vouchsafe
FALSTAFF. Well, on: Mistress Ford, you say-
FALSTAFF. Well, sirs, I am almost out at heels.
FALSTAFF. Well; Mistress Ford, what of her?
FALSTAFF. What say you, Scarlet and John?
FALSTAFF. Which of you know Ford of this town?
FALSTAFF. Why, I will.
FALSTAFF. You hear all these matters deni'd, gentlemen; you
FENTON, a young gentleman
FENTON.  [Within]  Who's within there? ho!
FENTON. How now, good woman, how dost thou?
FENTON. Shall I do any good, think'st thou? Shall I not lose
FENTON. Well, I shall see her to-day. Hold, there's money
FENTON. Well, farewell; I am in great haste now.
FENTON. What news? How does pretty Mistress Anne?
FENTON. Yes, marry, have I; what of that?
FIRST GENTLEMAN. And thou the velvet; thou art good velvet; thou'rt
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Ay, and more.
FIRST GENTLEMAN. But most of all agreeing with the proclamation.
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Claudio to prison? 'Tis not so.
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Heaven grant us its peace, but not the King of
FIRST GENTLEMAN. How now! which of your hips has the most profound
FIRST GENTLEMAN. I think I have done myself wrong, have I not?
FIRST GENTLEMAN. I think, or in any religion.
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Judge.
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Thou art always figuring diseases in me, but thou
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Well, there went but a pair of shears between us.
FIRST GENTLEMAN. What, in metre?
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Who's that, I pray thee?
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Why, 'twas a commandment to command the captain
FIRST let her show her face, and after speak.
FORD
FORD.  [Aside]  I will be patient; I will find out this.
FORD. 'Twas a good sensible fellow. Well.
FORD. Do you think there is truth in them?
FORD. Good mine host o' th' Garter, a word with you.
FORD. I do not misdoubt my wife; but I would be loath to
FORD. I like it never the better for that. Does he lie at the
FORD. I melancholy! I am not melancholy. Get you home;
FORD. I will seek out Falstaff.
FORD. If I do find it-well.
FORD. Love my wife!
FORD. None, I protest; but I'll give you a pottle of burnt
FORD. Though Page be a secure fool, and stands so firmly on
FORD. Well, I hope it be not so.
FORD. Were they his men?
FORD. What name, sir?
FORD. Why, sir, my wife is not young.
FORD. You heard what this knave told me, did you not?
FRANCISCA, a nun
FRANCISCA. Are not these large enough?
FRANCISCA. It is a man's voice. Gentle Isabella,
FRIAR. Gladly, my lord.
FRIAR. It rested in your Grace
FRIAR. May your Grace speak of it?
FROTH, a foolish gentleman
FROTH. All this is true.
FROTH. All-hallond eve.
FROTH. Ay, so I did indeed.
FROTH. Here in Vienna, sir.
FROTH. I have so; because it is an open room, and good for winter.
FROTH. I thank your worship. For mine own part, I never come into
FROTH. No, indeed.
FROTH. Yes, an't please you, sir.
GOBBO. Alack the day, I know you not, young gentleman; but I pray
GOBBO. Alack, sir, I am sand-blind; I know you not.
GOBBO. Be God's sonties, 'twill be a hard way to hit! Can you tell
GOBBO. God bless your worship!
GOBBO. He hath a great infection, sir, as one would say, to serve-
GOBBO. Her name is Margery, indeed. I'll be sworn, if thou be
GOBBO. Here's my son, sir, a poor boy-
GOBBO. His master and he, saving your worship's reverence, are
GOBBO. I cannot think you are my son.
GOBBO. I have here a dish of doves that I would bestow upon your
GOBBO. Lord, how art thou chang'd! How dost thou and thy master
GOBBO. Marry, God forbid! The boy was the very staff of my age, my
GOBBO. Master young gentleman, I pray you, which is the way to
GOBBO. Master young man, you, I pray you, which is the way to
GOBBO. No master, sir, but a poor man's son; his father, though I
GOBBO. Of Launcelot, an't please your mastership.
GOBBO. Pray you, sir, stand up; I am sure you are not Launcelot my
GOBBO. That is the very defect of the matter, sir.
GOBBO. Your worship's friend, and Launcelot, sir.
GRATIANO,     "    "    "     "     "
GRATIANO.  [To NERISSA]  By yonder moon I swear you do me wrong;
GRATIANO. A Daniel still say I, a second Daniel!
GRATIANO. A halter gratis; nothing else, for God's sake!
GRATIANO. A second Daniel, a Daniel, Jew!
GRATIANO. About a hoop of gold, a paltry ring
GRATIANO. And I must to Lorenzo and the rest;
GRATIANO. And it is marvel he out-dwells his hour,
GRATIANO. Beg that thou mayst have leave to hang thyself;
GRATIANO. Fair sir, you are well o'erta'en.
GRATIANO. He will, an if he live to be a man.
GRATIANO. I am glad on't; I desire no more delight
GRATIANO. I have a wife who I protest I love;
GRATIANO. I have suit to you.
GRATIANO. I thank your lordship, you have got me one.
GRATIANO. In christ'ning shalt thou have two god-fathers;
GRATIANO. Let it be so. The first inter'gatory
GRATIANO. Let me play the fool.
GRATIANO. Love-news, in faith!
GRATIANO. My Lord Bassanio gave his ring away
GRATIANO. My Lord Bassanio, and my gentle lady,
GRATIANO. Nay, but I bar to-night; you shall not gauge me
GRATIANO. Nerissa, cheer yond stranger; bid her welcome.
GRATIANO. No; we shall ne'er win at that sport, and stake down-
GRATIANO. Not on thy sole, but on thy soul, harsh Jew,
GRATIANO. Now by this hand I gave it to a youth,
GRATIANO. Now, by my hood, a gentle, and no Jew.
GRATIANO. O Jew! an upright judge, a learned judge!
GRATIANO. O learned judge! Mark, Jew. A learned judge!
GRATIANO. O upright judge! Mark, Jew. O learned judge!
GRATIANO. O, be thou damn'd, inexecrable dog!
GRATIANO. Signior Antonio?
GRATIANO. Signior Bassanio!
GRATIANO. Signior Bassanio, hear me:
GRATIANO. Thanks, i' faith, for silence is only commendable
GRATIANO. That ever holds: who riseth from a feast
GRATIANO. That will I do.
GRATIANO. This is the pent-house under which Lorenzo
GRATIANO. Was not that letter from fair Jessica?
GRATIANO. We have not made good preparation.
GRATIANO. We'll play with them: the first boy for a thousand
GRATIANO. Well, do you so, let not me take him then;
GRATIANO. Well, keep me company but two years moe,
GRATIANO. Were you the clerk that is to make me cuckold?
GRATIANO. Where's your master?
GRATIANO. Why, this is like the mending of highways
GRATIANO. Yes, faith, my lord.
GRATIANO. You look not well, Signior Antonio;
GRATIANO. You must not deny me: I must go with you to Belmont.
HOST of the Garter Inn
HOST. Discard, bully Hercules; cashier; let them wag; trot,
HOST. Hast thou no suit against my knight, my guest-cavaleiro.
HOST. Here, boys, here, here! Shall we wag?
HOST. How now, bully rook! Thou'rt a gentleman.  [To
HOST. I have spoke; let him follow.  [To BARDOLPH]  Let me
HOST. My hand, bully; thou shalt have egress and regress-
HOST. Tell him, Cavaleiro Justice; tell him, bully rook.
HOST. Thou'rt an emperor-Caesar, Keiser, and Pheazar. I
HOST. What say'st thou, my bully rook?         [They go aside]
HOST. What says my bully rook? Speak scholarly and
ISABELLA, sister to Claudio
ISABELLA. 'Tis set down so in heaven, but not in earth.
ISABELLA. Adoptedly, as school-maids change their names
ISABELLA. Alas! Alas!
ISABELLA. Alas! what poor ability's in me
ISABELLA. Alas, alas!
ISABELLA. And 'twere the cheaper way:
ISABELLA. And have you nuns no farther privileges?
ISABELLA. And is this all?
ISABELLA. And shamed life a hateful.
ISABELLA. As much for my poor brother as myself;
ISABELLA. At what hour to-morrow
ISABELLA. Ay, as the glasses where they view themselves,
ISABELLA. Ay, just; perpetual durance, a restraint,
ISABELLA. Ay, with such gifts that heaven shall share with you.
ISABELLA. Be ready, Claudio, for your death to-morrow.
ISABELLA. Because authority, though it err like others,
ISABELLA. Besides, he tells me that, if peradventure
ISABELLA. But can you, if you would?
ISABELLA. But might you do't, and do the world no wrong,
ISABELLA. By course of justice!
ISABELLA. Can this be so? Did Angelo so leave her?
ISABELLA. Could great men thunder
ISABELLA. Doth he so seek his life?
ISABELLA. Else let my brother die,
ISABELLA. Even so! Heaven keep your honour!
ISABELLA. Gentle my lord, turn back.
ISABELLA. Good sir, adieu.                              Exeunt
ISABELLA. Ha! little honour to be much believ'd,
ISABELLA. Hark how I'll bribe you; good my lord, turn back.
ISABELLA. He hath a garden circummur'd with brick,
ISABELLA. Heaven keep your honour safe!
ISABELLA. Ho, by your leave!
ISABELLA. How say you?
ISABELLA. I am a woeful suitor to your honour,
ISABELLA. I am come to know your pleasure.
ISABELLA. I am directed by you.
ISABELLA. I am now going to resolve him; I had rather my brother
ISABELLA. I am the sister of one Claudio,
ISABELLA. I do desire the like.
ISABELLA. I do, my lord.
ISABELLA. I have a brother is condemn'd to die;
ISABELLA. I have heard of the lady, and good words went with her
ISABELLA. I have no superfluous leisure; my stay must be stolen out
ISABELLA. I have no tongue but one; gentle, my lord,
ISABELLA. I have ta'en a due and wary note upon't;
ISABELLA. I know your virtue hath a license in't,
ISABELLA. I thank you for this comfort. Fare you well, good father.
ISABELLA. I went
ISABELLA. I will about it straight;
ISABELLA. I would to heaven I had your potency,
ISABELLA. I'll see what I can do.
ISABELLA. Ignominy in ransom and free pardon
ISABELLA. In brief- to set the needless process by,
ISABELLA. In such a one as, you consenting to't,
ISABELLA. It is not truer he is Angelo
ISABELLA. Justice, O royal Duke! Vail your regard
ISABELLA. Let me be ignorant, and in nothing good
ISABELLA. Let me hear you speak farther; I have spirit to do
ISABELLA. Little have you to say,
ISABELLA. Most strange, but yet most truly, will I speak.
ISABELLA. Must he needs die?
ISABELLA. My brother did love Juliet,
ISABELLA. My business is a word or two with Claudio.
ISABELLA. My power, alas, I doubt!
ISABELLA. Nay, but it is not so.
ISABELLA. No, none, but only a repair i' th' dark;
ISABELLA. None, but such remedy as, to save a head,
ISABELLA. Not with fond sicles of the tested gold,
ISABELLA. O Prince! I conjure thee, as thou believ'st
ISABELLA. O fie, fie, fie!
ISABELLA. O gracious Duke,
ISABELLA. O just but severe law!
ISABELLA. O that it were as like as it is true!
ISABELLA. O worthy Duke,
ISABELLA. O you beast!
ISABELLA. O, 'tis the cunning livery of hell
ISABELLA. O, I do fear thee, Claudio; and I quake,
ISABELLA. O, I will to him and pluck out his eyes!
ISABELLA. O, give me pardon,
ISABELLA. O, let him marry her!
ISABELLA. O, pardon me, my lord! It oft falls out,
ISABELLA. O, peace! the friar is come.
ISABELLA. O, were it but my life!
ISABELLA. One that I would were here, Friar Lodowick.
ISABELLA. Pardon it;
ISABELLA. Peace and prosperity! Who is't that calls?
ISABELLA. Please you to do't,
ISABELLA. Save your honour!              Exeunt all but ANGELO
ISABELLA. She'll take the enterprise upon her, father,
ISABELLA. Show me how, good father.
ISABELLA. Sir, believe this:
ISABELLA. Sir, make me not your story.
ISABELLA. So you must be the first that gives this sentence,
ISABELLA. So.
ISABELLA. Some one with child by him? My cousin Juliet?
ISABELLA. That I do beg his life, if it be sin,
ISABELLA. That in the captain's but a choleric word
ISABELLA. That's he, indeed.
ISABELLA. The better, given me by so holy a man.
ISABELLA. The image of it gives me content already; and I trust it
ISABELLA. There is a vice that most I do abhor,
ISABELLA. There spake my brother; there my father's grave
ISABELLA. This gentleman told somewhat of my tale.
ISABELLA. To speak so indirectly I am loath;
ISABELLA. To whom should I complain? Did I tell this,
ISABELLA. To-morrow! O, that's sudden! Spare him, spare him.
ISABELLA. Too late? Why, no; I, that do speak a word,
ISABELLA. True.
ISABELLA. Under your sentence?
ISABELLA. Unhappy Claudio! Wretched Isabel!
ISABELLA. We cannot weigh our brother with ourself.
ISABELLA. What a merit were it in death to take this poor maid from
ISABELLA. What is your will?
ISABELLA. What says my brother?
ISABELLA. When? I beseech you; that in his reprieve,
ISABELLA. Which is the least?
ISABELLA. Who's that which calls?
ISABELLA. Why her 'unhappy brother'? Let me ask
ISABELLA. Why,
ISABELLA. Woe me! For what?
ISABELLA. Yes, brother, you may live:
ISABELLA. Yes, he would give't thee, from this rank offence,
ISABELLA. Yes, truly; I speak not as desiring more,
ISABELLA. Yes; I do think that you might pardon him.
ISABELLA. Yet show some pity.
ISABELLA. You do blaspheme the good in mocking me.
ISABELLA. [ Within ] Peace, ho, be here!
ISABELLA. [Kneeling] Most bounteous sir,
ISABELLA. [Within] What, ho! Peace here; grace and good company!
JESSICA, daughter to Shylock
JESSICA. And what hope is that, I pray thee?
JESSICA. Call you? What is your will?
JESSICA. Farewell, good Launcelot.              Exit LAUNCELOT
JESSICA. Farewell; and if my fortune be not crost,
JESSICA. Here, catch this casket; it is worth the pains.
JESSICA. His words were 'Farewell, mistress'; nothing else.
JESSICA. I am never merry when I hear sweet music.
JESSICA. I am sorry thou wilt leave my father so.
JESSICA. I shall be sav'd by my husband; he hath made me a
JESSICA. I will make fast the doors, and gild myself
JESSICA. I wish your ladyship all heart's content.
JESSICA. I would out-night you, did no body come;
JESSICA. I'll tell my husband, Launcelot, what you say; here he
JESSICA. In such a night
JESSICA. In such a night
JESSICA. In such a night
JESSICA. Lorenzo, certain; and my love indeed;
JESSICA. Nay, but ask my opinion too of that.
JESSICA. Nay, let me praise you while I have a stomach.
JESSICA. Nay, you need nor fear us, Lorenzo; Launcelot and I are
JESSICA. Past all expressing. It is very meet
JESSICA. That were a kind of bastard hope indeed; so the sins of my
JESSICA. Well, I'll set you forth.                      Exeunt
JESSICA. What! must I hold a candle to my shames?
JESSICA. When I was with him, I have heard him swear
JESSICA. Who are you? Tell me, for more certainty,
JULIET, beloved of Claudio
JULIET. I do confess it, and repent it, father.
JULIET. I do repent me as it is an evil,
JULIET. I do; and bear the shame most patiently.
JULIET. I'll gladly learn.
JULIET. Must die to-morrow! O, injurious law,
JULIET. Mutually.
JULIET. Yes, as I love the woman that wrong'd him.
JUSTICE. Eleven, sir.
JUSTICE. I humbly thank you.
JUSTICE. Lord Angelo is severe.
LAUNCELOT GOBBO, a clown, servant to Shylock
LAUNCELOT.  [Aside]  O heavens! This is my true-begotten father,
LAUNCELOT. Adieu! tears exhibit my tongue. Most beautiful pagan,
LAUNCELOT. An it shall please you to break up this, it shall seem
LAUNCELOT. And they have conspired together; I will not say you
LAUNCELOT. But I pray you, ergo, old man, ergo, I beseech you, talk
LAUNCELOT. By your leave, sir.
LAUNCELOT. Certainly my conscience will serve me to run from this
LAUNCELOT. Do I look like a cudgel or a hovel-post, a staff or a
LAUNCELOT. Do you not know me, father?
LAUNCELOT. Ergo, Master Launcelot. Talk not of Master Launcelot,
LAUNCELOT. Father, in. I cannot get a service, no! I have ne'er a
LAUNCELOT. For the table, sir, it shall be serv'd in; for the meat,
LAUNCELOT. I beseech you, sir, go; my young master doth expect your
LAUNCELOT. I know not what I shall think of that; but I am
LAUNCELOT. I will go before, sir. Mistress, look out at window for
LAUNCELOT. In very brief, the suit is impertinent to myself, as
LAUNCELOT. Indeed the short and the long is, I serve the Jew, and
LAUNCELOT. It is much that the Moor should be more than reason; but
LAUNCELOT. It should seem, then, that Dobbin's tail grows backward;
LAUNCELOT. Marry, sir, to bid my old master, the Jew, to sup
LAUNCELOT. Marry, you may partly hope that your father got you not-
LAUNCELOT. Nay, indeed, if you had your eyes, you might fail of the
LAUNCELOT. Not a poor boy, sir, but the rich Jew's man, that would,
LAUNCELOT. Not so, sir, neither; I know my duty.
LAUNCELOT. Pray you, let's have no more fooling about it, but give
LAUNCELOT. Serve you, sir.
LAUNCELOT. Sola! Did you see Master Lorenzo? Master Lorenzo! Sola,
LAUNCELOT. Sola! Where, where?
LAUNCELOT. Sola, sola! wo ha, ho! sola, sola!
LAUNCELOT. Talk you of young Master Launcelot?  [Aside]  Mark me
LAUNCELOT. Tell him there's a post come from my master with his
LAUNCELOT. That is done too, sir, only 'cover' is the word.
LAUNCELOT. That is done, sir; they have all stomachs.
LAUNCELOT. The old proverb is very well parted between my master
LAUNCELOT. To be brief, the very truth is that the Jew, having done
LAUNCELOT. To him, father.
LAUNCELOT. Truly then I fear you are damn'd both by father and
LAUNCELOT. Truly, the more to blame he; we were Christians enow
LAUNCELOT. Turn up on your right hand at the next turning, but, at
LAUNCELOT. Well, let his father be what 'a will, we talk of young
LAUNCELOT. Well, well; but, for mine own part, as I have set up my
LAUNCELOT. Why, Jessica!
LAUNCELOT. Yes, truly; for, look you, the sins of the father are to
LAUNCELOT. Your worship was wont to tell me I could do nothing
LEONARDO, servant to Bassanio
LEONARDO. My best endeavours shall be done herein.
LEONARDO. Yonder, sir, he walks.                          Exit
LORENZO, in love with Jessica
LORENZO. 'Tis now but four o'clock; we have two hours
LORENZO. A friend! What friend? Your name, I pray you, friend?
LORENZO. Beshrew me, but I love her heartily,
LORENZO. Dear lady, welcome home.
LORENZO. Descend, for you must be my torch-bearer.
LORENZO. Even such a husband
LORENZO. Fair ladies, you drop manna in the way
LORENZO. Fair thoughts and happy hours attend on you!
LORENZO. Goodly Lord, what a wit-snapper are you! Then bid them
LORENZO. He is not, nor we have not heard from him.
LORENZO. Heaven and thy thoughts are witness that thou art.
LORENZO. Here!
LORENZO. Hold, here, take this. Tell gentle Jessica
LORENZO. How every fool can play upon the word! I think the best
LORENZO. I know the hand; in faith, 'tis a fair hand,
LORENZO. I must needs tell thee all. She hath directed
LORENZO. I shall answer that better to the commonwealth than you
LORENZO. I shall grow jealous of you shortly, Launcelot, if you
LORENZO. I thank your honour. For my part, my lord,
LORENZO. I will anon; first let us go to dinner.
LORENZO. In such a night
LORENZO. In such a night
LORENZO. Leave holloaing, man. Here!
LORENZO. Lorenzo, and thy love.
LORENZO. Madam, although I speak it in your presence,
LORENZO. Madam, they are not yet;
LORENZO. Madam, with all my heart
LORENZO. Meet me and Gratiano
LORENZO. My Lord Bassanio, since you have found Antonio,
LORENZO. Nay, we will slink away in suppertime,
LORENZO. No, pray thee, let it serve for table-talk;
LORENZO. O dear discretion, how his words are suited!
LORENZO. So are you, sweet,
LORENZO. Sweet friends, your patience for my long abode!
LORENZO. Sweet soul, let's in, and there expect their coming.
LORENZO. That is the voice,
LORENZO. The moon shines bright. In such a night as this,
LORENZO. The reason is your spirits are attentive;
LORENZO. Well, we will leave you then till dinner-time.
LORENZO. Whither goest thou?
LORENZO. Who calls?
LORENZO. Who comes so fast in silence of the night?
LORENZO. Who comes with her?
LORENZO. Will you cover, then, sir?
LORENZO. Yet more quarrelling with occasion! Wilt thou show the
LORENZO. Your husband is at hand; I hear his trumpet.
LUCIO, a fantastic
LUCIO. 'Cucullus non facit monachum': honest in nothing but in his
LUCIO. 'Tis he, my lord. Come hither, good-man bald-pate.
LUCIO. A French crown more.
LUCIO. A hundred, if they'll do you any good. Is lechery so look'd
LUCIO. A little more lenity to lechery would do no harm in him;
LUCIO. A very superficial, ignorant, unweighing fellow.
LUCIO. As any in Vienna, on my word.
LUCIO. Assay the pow'r you have.
LUCIO. Away; let's go learn the truth of it.
LUCIO. Ay, that he raz'd.
LUCIO. Ay, why not? Grace is grace, despite of all controversy; as,
LUCIO. Behold, behold, where Madam Mitigation comes! I have
LUCIO. Believe me, this may be; he promis'd to meet me two hours
LUCIO. But speedily.
LUCIO. But yesternight, my lord, she and that friar,
LUCIO. But, after all this fooling, I would not have it so. Art
LUCIO. By my troth, I'll go with thee to the lane's end. If bawdy
LUCIO. Carnally, she says.
LUCIO. Come, sir, I know what I know.
LUCIO. Come, sir; come, sir; come, sir; foh, sir! Why, you
LUCIO. Do not believe it. Fewness and truth, 'tis thus:
LUCIO. Do you so, sir? And was the Duke a fleshmonger, a fool, and
LUCIO. Does Bridget paint still, Pompey, ha?
LUCIO. Enough, my lord.
LUCIO. Faith, my lord, I spoke it but according to the trick.
LUCIO. For that which, if myself might be his judge,
LUCIO. Friar, thou knowest not the Duke so well as I do; he's a
LUCIO. Gentle and fair, your brother kindly greets you.
LUCIO. Go to kennel, Pompey, go.
LUCIO. Good even. Friar, where's the Provost?
LUCIO. Hail, virgin, if you be, as those cheek-roses
LUCIO. Has censur'd him
LUCIO. He was drunk, then, my lord; it can be no better.
LUCIO. How doth my dear morsel, thy mistress? Procures she still,
LUCIO. How now, noble Pompey! What, at the wheels of Caesar? Art
LUCIO. I believe thee; for I think thou never wast where grace was
LUCIO. I beseech your Highness, do not marry me to a whore. Your
LUCIO. I fear you not.
LUCIO. I grant; as there may between the lists and the velvet.
LUCIO. I pray she may; as well for the encouragement of the like,
LUCIO. I take my leave of you.
LUCIO. I think thou dost; and, indeed, with most painful feeling of
LUCIO. I warrant it is; and thy head stands so tickle on thy
LUCIO. I warrant your honour.
LUCIO. I was once before him for getting a wench with child.
LUCIO. I'll be hang'd first. Thou art deceiv'd in me, friar. But no
LUCIO. If I could speak so wisely under an arrest, I would send for
LUCIO. If the Duke, with the other dukes, come not to composition
LUCIO. In any proportion or in any language.
LUCIO. Is she your cousin?
LUCIO. It is true.
LUCIO. It was a mad fantastical trick of him to steal from the
LUCIO. Lechery?
LUCIO. Marry, sir, I think, if you handled her privately, she would
LUCIO. Marrying a punk, my lord, is pressing to death, whipping,
LUCIO. Mum.
LUCIO. My lord, I know him; 'tis a meddling friar.
LUCIO. My lord, here comes the rascal I spoke of, here with the
LUCIO. My lord, most villainously; believe it.
LUCIO. My lord, she may be a punk; for many of them are neither
LUCIO. Nay, not, as one would say, healthy; but so sound as things
LUCIO. Nay, tarry; I'll go along with thee; I can tell thee pretty
LUCIO. No, indeed, will I not, Pompey; it is not the wear. I will
LUCIO. No, my good lord;
LUCIO. No, pardon; 'tis a secret must be lock'd within the teeth
LUCIO. Not better than he, by her own report.
LUCIO. O did you so? And do you remember what you said of the Duke?
LUCIO. O pretty Isabella, I am pale at mine heart to see thine eyes
LUCIO. O thou damnable fellow! Did not I pluck thee by the nose for
LUCIO. O, sir, you are deceiv'd.
LUCIO. Our doubts are traitors,
LUCIO. Right.
LUCIO. She it is.
LUCIO. Sir, I know him, and I love him.
LUCIO. Sir, I was an inward of his. A shy fellow was the Duke; and
LUCIO. Sir, my name is Lucio, well known to the Duke.
LUCIO. Some report a sea-maid spawn'd him; some, that he was begot
LUCIO. Some say he is with the Emperor of Russia; other some, he is
LUCIO. That's I, an't like your Grace.
LUCIO. That's the way; for women are light at midnight.
LUCIO. Then, Pompey, nor now. What news abroad, friar? what news?
LUCIO. This is the point.
LUCIO. This is the rascal; this is he I spoke of.
LUCIO. This may prove worse than hanging.
LUCIO. Thou conclud'st like the sanctimonious pirate that went to
LUCIO. Well, my lord.
LUCIO. Well, my lord.
LUCIO. Well, then, imprison him. If imprisonment be the due of a
LUCIO. What, is't murder?
LUCIO. Who- not the Duke? Yes, your beggar of fifty; and his use
LUCIO. Why, 'tis good; it is the right of it; it must be so; ever
LUCIO. Why, 'tis not amiss, Pompey. Farewell; go, say I sent thee
LUCIO. Why, how now, Claudio, whence comes this restraint?
LUCIO. Why, what a ruthless thing is this in him, for the rebellion
LUCIO. Why? For filling a bottle with a tun-dish. I would the Duke
LUCIO. With child, perhaps?
LUCIO. Within two hours.
LUCIO. Yes, in good sooth, the vice is of a great kindred; it is
LUCIO. Yes, marry, did I; but I was fain to forswear it: they would
LUCIO. [ Within] Ho! Peace be in this place!
LUCIO. [Aside] Ay, well said.
LUCIO. [To ISABELLA) You had marr'd all else.
LUCIO. [To ISABELLA] Art avis'd o' that? More on't.
LUCIO. [To ISABELLA] Ay, touch him; there's the vein.
LUCIO. [To ISABELLA] Give't not o'er so; to him again, entreat him,
LUCIO. [To ISABELLA] Go to; 'tis well; away.
LUCIO. [To ISABELLA] O, to him, to him, wench! He will relent;
LUCIO. [To ISABELLA] That's well said.
LUCIO. [To ISABELLA] Thou'rt i' th' right, girl; more o' that.
LUCIO. [To ISABELLA] You are too cold.
Lords, Officers, Citizens, Boy, and Attendants
MACBETH. Accursed be that tongue that tells me so,
MACBETH. Hang out our banners on the outward walls;
MACBETH. I have almost forgot the taste of fears:
MACBETH. I will not yield,
MACBETH. If thou speak'st false,
MACBETH. Liar and slave!
MACBETH. My name's Macbeth.
MACBETH. No, nor more fearful.
MACBETH. Of all men else I have avoided thee.
MACBETH. She should have died hereafter;
MACBETH. They have tied me to a stake; I cannot fly,
MACBETH. Thou losest labor.
MACBETH. Thou wast born of woman.
MACBETH. Thou'lt be afraid to hear it.
MACBETH. Well, say, sir.
MACBETH. Why should I play the Roman fool and die
MACDUFF. Despair thy charm,
MACDUFF. Hail, King, for so thou art. Behold where stands
MACDUFF. I have no words.
MACDUFF. Make all our trumpets speak, give them all breath,
MACDUFF. That way the noise is. Tyrant, show thy face!
MACDUFF. Then yield thee, coward,
MACDUFF. Turn, hell hound, turn!
MALCOLM. He's worth more sorrow,
MALCOLM. I would the friends we miss were safe arrived.
MALCOLM. Macduff is missing, and your noble son.
MALCOLM. Now near enough; your leavy screens throw down,
MALCOLM. We have met with foes
MALCOLM. We shall not spend a large expense of time
MAN. Gentlemen, my master Antonio is at his house, and desires to
MARIANA, betrothed to Angelo
MARIANA. Be rul'd by him.
MARIANA. Break off thy song, and haste thee quick away;
MARIANA. Fear me not.
MARIANA. Gentle my liege-                           [Kneeling]
MARIANA. Good friar, I know you do, and have found it.
MARIANA. I am always bound to you.                        Exit
MARIANA. I would Friar Peter-
MARIANA. Isabel,
MARIANA. Merely, my lord.
MARIANA. My husband bids me; now I will unmask.
MARIANA. My lord, I do confess I ne'er was married,
MARIANA. Neither, my lord.
MARIANA. No, my lord.
MARIANA. No, my lord.
MARIANA. Noble Prince,
MARIANA. Not that I know.
MARIANA. Now I come to't, my lord:
MARIANA. O my dear lord,
MARIANA. O my good lord! Sweet Isabel, take my part;
MARIANA. O my most gracious lord,
MARIANA. Pardon, my lord; I will not show my face
MARIANA. Why, just, my lord, and that is Angelo,
MARIANA. Will't please you walk aside?
MARIANA. You have not been inquir'd after; I have sat here all day.
MESSENGER. As I did stand my watch upon the hill,
MESSENGER. Gracious my lord,
MESSENGER. Let me endure your wrath, if't be not so.
MESSENGER. My lord hath sent you this note; and by me this further
MISTRESS ANNE PAGE, her daughter
MISTRESS FORD
MISTRESS OVERDONE, a bawd
MISTRESS PAGE
MISTRESS QUICKLY, servant to Doctor Caius
MRS. FORD.  [Aside to MRS. PAGE]  Trust me, I thought on
MRS. FORD. 'Boarding' call you it? I'll be sure to keep him
MRS. FORD. Faith, thou hast some crotchets in thy head now.
MRS. FORD. How now, sweet Frank, why art thou melancholy?
MRS. FORD. If I would but go to hell for an eternal moment
MRS. FORD. Mistress Page! trust me, I was going to your
MRS. FORD. Nay, I will consent to act any villainy against
MRS. FORD. Nay, I'll ne'er believe that; I have to show to
MRS. FORD. O woman, if it were not for one trifling respect,
MRS. FORD. We burn daylight. Here, read, read; perceive
MRS. FORD. Well, I do, then; yet, I say, I could show you to
MRS. FORD. Why, this is the very same; the very hand, the
MRS. FORD. You are the happier woman.
MRS. OVERDONE. And what shall become of those in the city?
MRS. OVERDONE. But shall all our houses of resort in the suburbs be
MRS. OVERDONE. But what's his offence?
MRS. OVERDONE. Good my lord, be good to me; your honour is
MRS. OVERDONE. I am too sure of it; and it is for getting Madam
MRS. OVERDONE. Marry, sir, that's Claudio, Signior Claudio.
MRS. OVERDONE. My lord, this is one Lucio's information against me.
MRS. OVERDONE. Nay, but I know 'tis so: I saw him arrested; saw him
MRS. OVERDONE. Thus, what with the war, what with the sweat, what
MRS. OVERDONE. Well, well! there's one yonder arrested and carried
MRS. OVERDONE. Well, what has he done?
MRS. OVERDONE. What proclamation, man?
MRS. OVERDONE. What! is there a maid with child by him?
MRS. OVERDONE. What's to do here, Thomas Tapster? Let's withdraw.
MRS. OVERDONE. Why, here's a change indeed in the commonwealth!
MRS. PAGE. And, trust me, I was coming to you. You look
MRS. PAGE. Faith, but you do, in my mind.
MRS. PAGE. Go in with us and see; we have an hour's talk
MRS. PAGE. Hang the trifle, woman; take the honour. What
MRS. PAGE. Have with you. You'll come to dinner, George?
MRS. PAGE. Let's consult together against this greasy knight.
MRS. PAGE. Letter for letter, but that the name of Page and
MRS. PAGE. Nay, I know not; it makes me almost ready to
MRS. PAGE. So will I; if he come under my hatches, I'll never
MRS. PAGE. What! have I scap'd love-letters in the holiday-time
MRS. PAGE. What's the matter, woman?
MRS. PAGE. What? Thou liest. Sir Alice Ford! These knights
MRS. PAGE. Whither go you, George? Hark you.
MRS. PAGE. Why, look where he comes; and my good man
MRS. PAGE. You are come to see my daughter Anne?
Magnificoes of Venice, Officers of the Court of Justice,
NERISSA, her waiting-maid
NERISSA. 'Tis well you offer it behind her back;
NERISSA. And I his clerk; therefore be well advis'd
NERISSA. And pardon me, my gentle Gratiano,
NERISSA. Ay, and I'll give them him without a fee.
NERISSA. Ay, but the clerk that never means to do it,
NERISSA. Ay, if a woman live to be a man.
NERISSA. Bassanio, Lord Love, if thy will it be!        Exeunt
NERISSA. Come, good sir, will you show me to this house?
NERISSA. Do you not remember, lady, in your father's time, a
NERISSA. First, there is the Neapolitan prince.
NERISSA. From both, my lord. Bellario greets your Grace.
NERISSA. He attendeth here hard by
NERISSA. How like you the young German, the Duke of Saxony's
NERISSA. How say you by the French lord, Monsieur Le Bon?
NERISSA. If he should offer to choose, and choose the right casket,
NERISSA. It is your music, madam, of the house.
NERISSA. Madam, it is, so you stand pleas'd withal.
NERISSA. My lord and lady, it is now our time
NERISSA. Nor I in yours
NERISSA. Quick, quick, I pray thee, draw the curtain straight;
NERISSA. Shall they see us?
NERISSA. Silence bestows that virtue on it, madam.
NERISSA. Sir, I would speak with you.
NERISSA. The ancient saying is no heresy:
NERISSA. Then is there the County Palatine.
NERISSA. They would be better, if well followed.
NERISSA. True, madam; he, of all the men that ever my foolish eyes
NERISSA. What say you then to Falconbridge, the young baron of
NERISSA. What talk you of the posy or the value?
NERISSA. What think you of the Scottish lord, his neighbour?
NERISSA. What, and stake down?
NERISSA. When the moon shone, we did not see the candle.
NERISSA. Why, shall we turn to men?
NERISSA. You need not fear, lady, the having any of these lords;
NERISSA. You would be, sweet madam, if your miseries were in the
NERISSA. Your father was ever virtuous, and holy men at their death
NYM
NYM.  [To PAGE]  And this is true; I like not the humour of
NYM. Be avis'd, sir, and pass good humours; I will say
NYM. By welkin and her star!
NYM. He was gotten in drink. Is not the humour conceited?
NYM. I have operations in my head which be humours of
NYM. I thank thee for that humour.
NYM. I will run no base humour. Here, take the
NYM. My humour shall not cool; I will incense Page to deal
NYM. Slice, I say! pauca, pauca; slice! That's my humour.
NYM. The anchor is deep; will that humour pass?
NYM. The good humour is to steal at a minute's rest.
NYM. The humour rises; it is good; humour me the angels.
NYM. With both the humours, I.
OLD GOBBO, father to Launcelot
PAGE
PAGE.  [Within]  Who's there?
PAGE. 'The humour of it,' quoth 'a! Here's a fellow frights
PAGE. A cur, sir.
PAGE. Ay, marry, does he. If he should intend this voyage
PAGE. By cock and pie, you shall not choose, sir! Come,
PAGE. Come on, sir.
PAGE. Come, gentle Master Slender, come; we stay for you.
PAGE. Hang 'em, slaves! I do not think the knight would offer it;
PAGE. Have with you. I had rather hear them scold than
PAGE. Here comes Sir John.
PAGE. How now, Master Ford!
PAGE. How now, Meg!
PAGE. How now, Mistress Ford!
PAGE. I am glad to see you, good Master Slender.
PAGE. I am glad to see your worships well. I thank you for
PAGE. I have heard the Frenchman hath good skill in his
PAGE. I never heard such a drawling, affecting rogue.
PAGE. I will not believe such a Cataian though the priest o'
PAGE. It could not be judg'd, sir.
PAGE. Look where my ranting host of the Garter comes.
PAGE. Marry, were they.
PAGE. Nay, daughter, carry the wine in; we'll drink within.
PAGE. Sir, I thank you.
PAGE. Sir, he doth in some sort confess it.
PAGE. Sir, he is within; and I would I could do a good office
PAGE. We three to hear it and end it between them.
PAGE. Wife, bid these gentlemen welcome. Come, we have a
PAGE. Yes; and you heard what the other told me?
PETER, friar
PETER. Blessed be your royal Grace!
PETER. Come, I have found you out a stand most fit,
PETER. I know him for a man divine and holy;
PETER. Now is your time; speak loud, and kneel before him.
PETER. Well, he in time may come to clear himself;
PETER. Would lie were here, my lord! For he indeed
PISTOL
PISTOL. 'Convey' the wise it call. 'Steal' foh! A fico for the
PISTOL. And I to Ford shall eke unfold
PISTOL. As many devils entertain; and 'To her, boy,' say I.
PISTOL. Didst not thou share? Hadst thou not fifteen pence?
PISTOL. Ha, thou mountain-foreigner! Sir John and master
PISTOL. He hears with ears.
PISTOL. He woos both high and low, both rich and poor,
PISTOL. Hope is a curtal dog in some affairs.
PISTOL. How now, Mephostophilus!
PISTOL. I do relent; what would thou more of man?
PISTOL. I ken the wight; he is of substance good.
PISTOL. I will retort the sum in equipage.
PISTOL. Let vultures gripe thy guts! for gourd and fullam
PISTOL. O base Hungarian wight! Wilt thou the spigot
PISTOL. Shall I Sir Pandarus of Troy become,
PISTOL. The horn, I say. Farewell.
PISTOL. Then did the sun on dunghill shine.
PISTOL. Thou art the Mars of malcontents; I second thee;
PISTOL. Two yards, and more.
PISTOL. Why, then the world's mine oyster. Which I with
PISTOL. Why, then, let kibes ensue.
PISTOL. Wilt thou revenge?
PISTOL. With liver burning hot. Prevent, or go thou,
PISTOL. With wit or steel?
PISTOL. Young ravens must have food.
POMPEY, a clown and servant to Mistress Overdone
POMPEY. 'Twas never merry world since, of two usuries, the merriest
POMPEY. A tapster, a poor widow's tapster.
POMPEY. A woman.
POMPEY. All houses in the suburbs of Vienna must be pluck'd down.
POMPEY. Bum, sir.
POMPEY. By this hand, sir, his wife is a more respected person than
POMPEY. Come, fear not you: good counsellors lack no clients.
POMPEY. Does your worship mean to geld and splay all the youth of
POMPEY. Doth your honour see any harm in his face?
POMPEY. Groping for trouts in a peculiar river.
POMPEY. He cannot, sir; he's out at elbow.
POMPEY. He is coming, sir, he is coming; I hear his straw rustle.
POMPEY. Here comes Signior Claudio, led by the provost to prison;
POMPEY. I am as well acquainted here as I was in our house of
POMPEY. I beseech you, sir, look in this gentleman's face. Good
POMPEY. I beseech your honour, ask me.
POMPEY. I do desire to learn, sir; and I hope, if you have occasion
POMPEY. I hope, sir, your good worship will be my bail.
POMPEY. I spy comfort; I cry bail. Here's a gentleman, and a friend
POMPEY. I thank your worship for your good counsel; [Aside] but I
POMPEY. I'll be suppos'd upon a book his face is the worst thing
POMPEY. If the law would allow it, sir.
POMPEY. If the man be a bachelor, sir, I can; but if he be a
POMPEY. If you head and hang all that offend that way but for ten
POMPEY. Indeed, it does stink in some sort, sir; but yet, sir,
POMPEY. Master Barnardine! You must rise and be hang'd, Master
POMPEY. Mistress Overdone.
POMPEY. Nay, I beseech you, mark it well.
POMPEY. Nine, sir; Overdone by the last.
POMPEY. No, indeed, sir, not of a pin; you are therein in the
POMPEY. No; but there's a woman with maid by him. You have not
POMPEY. O, the better, sir! For he that drinks all night and is
POMPEY. Once?- sir. There was nothing done to her once.
POMPEY. Painting, sir, I have heard say, is a mystery; and your
POMPEY. Pompey.
POMPEY. Pray, Master Barnardine, awake till you are executed, and
POMPEY. Pray, sir, by your good favour- for surely, sir, a good
POMPEY. Proof?
POMPEY. Sir, I have been an unlawful bawd time out of mind; but yet
POMPEY. Sir, I will serve him; for I do find your hangman is a more
POMPEY. Sir, but you shall come to it, by your honour's leave. And,
POMPEY. Sir, if it please your honour, this is not so.
POMPEY. Sir, she came in great with child; and longing, saving your
POMPEY. Sir, she was respected with him before he married with her.
POMPEY. Sir, your honour cannot come to that yet.
POMPEY. They shall stand for seed; they had gone down too, but that
POMPEY. To the ground, mistress.
POMPEY. Troth, sir, she hath eaten up all her beef, and she is
POMPEY. Truly, sir, I am a poor fellow that would live.
POMPEY. Truly, sir, in my poor opinion, they will to't then. If
POMPEY. Very ready, sir.
POMPEY. Very well; you being then, if you be rememb'red, cracking
POMPEY. Why, very well then-
POMPEY. Why, very well then; I hope here be truths.
POMPEY. Why, very well; I hope here be truths. He, sir, sitting, as
POMPEY. Why, very well; I telling you then, if you be rememb'red,
POMPEY. Yes, faith, sir.
POMPEY. Yonder man is carried to prison.
POMPEY. You will not bail me then, sir?
POMPEY. Your friends, sir; the hangman. You must be so good, sir,
PORTIA, a rich heiress
PORTIA.  [Aside]  How all the other passions fleet to air,
PORTIA.  [Aside]  Too long a pause for that which you find there.
PORTIA.  [To NERISSA]  Thou Mayst, I warrant. We shall have old
PORTIA. A gentle riddance. Draw the curtains, go.
PORTIA. A pound of that same merchant's flesh is thine.
PORTIA. A quarrel, ho, already! What's the matter?
PORTIA. And you must cut this flesh from off his breast.
PORTIA. Art thou contented, Jew? What dost thou say?
PORTIA. Away, then; I am lock'd in one of them.
PORTIA. Ay, but I fear you speak upon the rack,
PORTIA. Ay, for the state; not for Antonio.
PORTIA. Ay, that's a colt indeed, for he doth nothing but talk of
PORTIA. Behold, there stand the caskets, noble Prince.
PORTIA. By my troth, Nerissa, my little body is aweary of this
PORTIA. Clerk, draw a deed of gift.
PORTIA. Come on, Nerissa, I have work in hand
PORTIA. Come, draw the curtain, Nerissa.
PORTIA. Do you confess the bond?
PORTIA. Even so void is your false heart of truth;
PORTIA. Fie, what a question's that,
PORTIA. First, forward to the temple. After dinner
PORTIA. For the intent and purpose of the law
PORTIA. Go draw aside the curtains and discover
PORTIA. God made him, and therefore let him pass for a man. In
PORTIA. Good sentences, and well pronounc'd.
PORTIA. Have by some surgeon, Shylock, on your charge,
PORTIA. He doth nothing but frown, as who should say 'An you will
PORTIA. He hath refus'd it in the open court;
PORTIA. He is well paid that is well satisfied,
PORTIA. He knows me as the blind man knows the cuckoo,
PORTIA. Here; what would my lord?
PORTIA. How now, Lorenzo!
PORTIA. I am informed throughly of the cause.
PORTIA. I did, my lord.
PORTIA. I had it of him. Pardon me, Bassanio,
PORTIA. I humbly do desire your Grace of pardon;
PORTIA. I never did repent for doing good,
PORTIA. I pray thee over-name them; and as thou namest them, I will
PORTIA. I pray you tarry; pause a day or two
PORTIA. I pray you, let me look upon the bond.
PORTIA. I remember him well, and I remember him worthy of thy
PORTIA. I see, sir, you are liberal in offers;
PORTIA. I thank you for your wish, and am well pleas'd
PORTIA. I will have nothing else but only this;
PORTIA. If I could bid the fifth welcome with so good heart as I
PORTIA. If I live to be as old as Sibylla, I will die as chaste as
PORTIA. If to do were as easy as to know what were good to do,
PORTIA. If you had known the virtue of the ring,
PORTIA. In terms of choice I am not solely led
PORTIA. Inquire the Jew's house out, give him this deed,
PORTIA. Is it your dear friend that is thus in trouble?
PORTIA. Is this true, Nerissa?
PORTIA. Is your name Shylock?
PORTIA. It is almost morning,
PORTIA. It is not so express'd, but what of that?
PORTIA. It is so. Are there balance here to weigh
PORTIA. It must not be; there is no power in Venice
PORTIA. Let me give light, but let me not be light,
PORTIA. Let not that doctor e'er come near my house;
PORTIA. Mark you but that!
PORTIA. My people do already know my mind,
PORTIA. No more, I pray thee; I am half afeard
PORTIA. Nothing is good, I see, without respect;
PORTIA. O love, dispatch all business and be gone!
PORTIA. Of a strange nature is the suit you follow;
PORTIA. Shylock, there's thrice thy money off'red thee.
PORTIA. Sir, grieve not you; you are welcome not withstanding.
PORTIA. Sir, you are very welcome to our house.
PORTIA. So do I, my lord;
PORTIA. So doth the greater glory dim the less:
PORTIA. Soft!
PORTIA. Speak not so grossly. You are all amaz'd.
PORTIA. Tarry a little; there is something else.
PORTIA. Tarry, Jew.
PORTIA. That 'scuse serves many men to save their gifts.
PORTIA. That cannot be.
PORTIA. That he hath a neighbourly charity in him, for he borrowed
PORTIA. That light we see is burning in my hall.
PORTIA. The crow doth sing as sweetly as the lark
PORTIA. The one of them contains my picture, Prince;
PORTIA. The quality of mercy is not strain'd;
PORTIA. Then must the Jew be merciful.
PORTIA. Then you shall be his surety. Give him this,
PORTIA. There are some shrewd contents in yond same paper
PORTIA. There, take it, Prince, and if my form lie there,
PORTIA. Therefore, for fear of the worst, I pray thee set a deep
PORTIA. Therefore, lay bare your bosom.
PORTIA. Therefore, prepare thee to cut off the flesh.
PORTIA. They shall, Nerissa; but in such a habit
PORTIA. This night methinks is but the daylight sick;
PORTIA. Thou shalt have nothing but the forfeiture
PORTIA. Thus hath the candle sing'd the moth.
PORTIA. Thyself shalt see the act;
PORTIA. To offend and judge are distinct offices
PORTIA. To these injunctions every one doth swear
PORTIA. Upon the rack, Bassanio? Then confess
PORTIA. Very vilely in the morning when he is sober; and most
PORTIA. We have been praying for our husbands' welfare,
PORTIA. Well then, confess and live.
PORTIA. What mercy can you render him, Antonio?
PORTIA. What ring gave you, my lord?
PORTIA. What sum owes he the Jew?
PORTIA. What! no more?
PORTIA. Why doth the Jew pause? Take thy forfeiture.
PORTIA. Why then, thus it is:
PORTIA. Why, this bond is forfeit;
PORTIA. Yes, yes, it was Bassanio; as I think, so was he call'd.
PORTIA. You know I say nothing to him, for he understands not me,
PORTIA. You must take your chance,
PORTIA. You press me far, and therefore I will yield.
PORTIA. You see me, Lord Bassanio, where I stand,
PORTIA. You should in all sense be much bound to him,
PORTIA. You were to blame, I must be plain with you,
PORTIA. You, merchant, have you anything to say?
PORTIA. Your wife would give you little thanks for that,
PORTIA.. Go in, Nerissa;
PRINCE OF MOROCCO. Even for that I thank you.
PRINCE OF MOROCCO. Good fortune then,
PRINCE OF MOROCCO. Nor will not; come, bring me unto my chance.
PRINCE OF MOROCCO. O hell! what have we here?
PRINCE OF MOROCCO. Some god direct my judgment! Let me see;
PRINCE OF MOROCCO. The first, of gold, who this inscription bears:
PRINCE OF Morocco. Mislike me not for my complexion,
PROVOST
PROVOST. 'Tis pity of him.                              Exeunt
PROVOST. A Bohemian born; but here nurs'd up and bred.
PROVOST. A bawd of eleven years' continuance, may it please your
PROVOST. A man that apprehends death no more dreadfully but as a
PROVOST. Alack! How may I do it, having the hour limited, and an
PROVOST. And very welcome. Look, signior, here's your sister.
PROVOST. Angelo hath seen them both, and will discover the favour.
PROVOST. Are you agreed?
PROVOST. As I do think, to-morrow.
PROVOST. As many as you please.
PROVOST. Away, sir; you must go.
PROVOST. Ay, my good lord; a very virtuous maid,
PROVOST. But what likelihood is in that?
PROVOST. Call hither Barnardine and Claudio.
PROVOST. Come hither, sirrah. Can you cut off a man's head?
PROVOST. Come, sir, leave me your snatches and yield me a direct
PROVOST. Go to, sir; you weigh equally; a feather will turn the
PROVOST. Happily
PROVOST. He will hear none. He hath evermore had the liberty of the
PROVOST. Here in the prison, father,
PROVOST. Here is the head; I'll carry it myself.
PROVOST. Here, if it like your honour.
PROVOST. His friends still wrought reprieves for him; and, indeed,
PROVOST. His name is Barnardine.
PROVOST. I am the Provost. What's your will, good friar?
PROVOST. I am your free dependant.
PROVOST. I crave your honour's pardon.
PROVOST. I do it not in evil disposition,
PROVOST. I know them both.
PROVOST. I shall obey him.                      Exit MESSENGER
PROVOST. I told you: Lord Angelo, belike thinking me remiss in mine
PROVOST. I would do more than that, if more were needful.
PROVOST. I'll make all speed.                             Exit
PROVOST. In good time.                            Exit PROVOST
PROVOST. Is it your will Claudio shall die to-morrow?
PROVOST. It is a bitter deputy.
PROVOST. It was commanded so.
PROVOST. Lest I might be too rash;
PROVOST. Most manifest, and not denied by himself.
PROVOST. No, my good lord; it was by private message.
PROVOST. No.
PROVOST. None, since the curfew rung.
PROVOST. None, sir, none.
PROVOST. Now, sir, how do you find the prisoner?
PROVOST. Pardon me, good father; it is against my oath.
PROVOST. Pardon me, noble lord;
PROVOST. Pray you do. [Exit SERVANT] I'll know
PROVOST. Pray, sir, in what?
PROVOST. Sirrah, here's a fellow will help you to-morrow in your
PROVOST. So please you, this friar hath been with him, and advis'd
PROVOST. There he must stay until the officer
PROVOST. This is another prisoner that I sav'd,
PROVOST. This shall be done, good father, presently.
PROVOST. This, my lord.
PROVOST. To him and to his substitutes.
PROVOST. What comfort is for Claudio?
PROVOST. What ho, Abhorson! Where's Abhorson there?
PROVOST. What's your will, father?
PROVOST. Who can do good on him?
PROVOST. Who's there? Come in; the wish deserves a welcome.
PROVOST. You, sirrah, provide your block and your axe to-morrow
PROVOST. [Aside] Heaven give thee moving graces.
PROVOST. [Aside] Pray heaven she win him.
PROVOST. [Going] Save your honour!
PROVOST. [Reads] 'Whatsoever you may hear to the contrary, let
QUICKLY.  [Aside to SIMPLE]  Are you avis'd o' that? You
QUICKLY.  [Aside to SIMPLE]  I am glad he is so quiet; if he
QUICKLY. A softly-sprighted man, is he not?
QUICKLY. Alas, he speaks but for his friend.
QUICKLY. And Master Slender's your master?
QUICKLY. Are they so? God bless them, and make them his
QUICKLY. Ay me, he'll find the young man there, and be
QUICKLY. Ay, forsooth, I'll fetch it you.  [Aside]  I am glad
QUICKLY. Ay, forsooth; and then you may come and see
QUICKLY. Ay, forsooth; and, I pray, how does good Mistress Anne?
QUICKLY. Blessing on your heart for 't!
QUICKLY. Does he not wear a great round beard, like a
QUICKLY. Farewell to your worship.  [Exit FENTON]  Truly,
QUICKLY. Give your worship good morrow.
QUICKLY. Go; and we'll have a posset for't soon at night, in
QUICKLY. Good master, be content.
QUICKLY. How say you? O, I should remember him. Does
QUICKLY. I beseech you, be not so phlegmatic; hear the
QUICKLY. I'll be sworn;
QUICKLY. In truth, sir, and she is pretty, and honest, and
QUICKLY. Is it this, sir?
QUICKLY. Marry, she hath receiv'd your letter; for the
QUICKLY. Marry, this is the short and the long of it: you
QUICKLY. Nay, but do so then; and, look you, he may come
QUICKLY. Not so, an't please your worship.
QUICKLY. Peace, I pray you.
QUICKLY. Shall I vouchsafe your worship a word or two?
QUICKLY. Sir, the maid loves you, and all shall be well. We
QUICKLY. That were a jest indeed! They have not so little
QUICKLY. The better that it pleases your good worship to
QUICKLY. The young man is an honest man.
QUICKLY. There is one Mistress Ford, sir-I pray, come a little
QUICKLY. This is all, indeed, la! but I'll ne'er put my finger
QUICKLY. Troth, sir, all is in His hands above; but
QUICKLY. We shall all be shent. Run in here, good young
QUICKLY. Well, heaven send Anne Page no worse fortune!
QUICKLY. Well, thereby hangs a tale; good faith, it is such
QUICKLY. What, John Rugby! I pray thee go to the casement
QUICKLY. What, John Rugby? John!
QUICKLY. Who's there, I trow? Come near the house, I pray
QUICKLY. Why, sir, she's a good creature. Lord, Lord, your
QUICKLY. Why, you say well. But I have another messenger
QUICKLY. Will I? I' faith, that we will; and I will tell your
QUICKLY. You shall have-An fool's-head of your own. No,
QUICKLY. Your worship says very true. I pray your worship
ROBIN, page to Falstaff
ROBIN. Sir, here's a woman would speak with you.
ROSS. Ay, and brought off the field. Your cause of sorrow
ROSS. Ay, on the front.
ROSS. Your son, my lord, has paid a soldier's debt.
RUGBY, servant to Doctor Caius
RUGBY. 'Tis ready, sir, here in the porch.
RUGBY. Here, sir.
RUGBY. I'll go watch.
RUGBY. Out, alas! here comes my master.
SALERIO,      "    "    "     "     "
SALERIO. 'Tis good we do so.        Exeunt SALERIO and SOLANIO
SALERIO. A kinder gentleman treads not the earth.
SALERIO. Ay, marry, I'll be gone about it straight.
SALERIO. Come, the full stop.
SALERIO. Do we so.                                      Exeunt
SALERIO. Good morrow, my good lords.
SALERIO. He came too late, the ship was under sail;
SALERIO. He is ready at the door; he comes, my lord.
SALERIO. Here comes Lorenzo; more of this hereafter.
SALERIO. His hour is almost past.
SALERIO. I did, my lord,
SALERIO. I would have stay'd till I had made you merry,
SALERIO. I would it might prove the end of his losses.
SALERIO. I would you had won the fleece that he hath lost.
SALERIO. Marry, well rememb'red;
SALERIO. My lord, here stays without
SALERIO. My wind, cooling my broth,
SALERIO. Not one, my lord.
SALERIO. Not sick, my lord, unless it be in mind;
SALERIO. O, ten times faster Venus' pigeons fly
SALERIO. That's certain, if the devil may be her judge.
SALERIO. That's certain; I, for my part, knew the tailor that made
SALERIO. There is more difference between thy flesh and hers than
SALERIO. We have been up and down to seek him.
SALERIO. We have not spoke us yet of torch-bearers.
SALERIO. We'll make our leisures to attend on yours.
SALERIO. Why, I am sure, if he forfeit, thou wilt not take his
SALERIO. Why, all the boys in Venice follow him,
SALERIO. Why, man, I saw Bassanio under sail;
SALERIO. Why, yet it lives there uncheck'd that Antonio hath a ship
SALERIO. Your mind is tossing on the ocean;
SECOND GENTLEMAN. 'Thou shalt not steal'?
SECOND GENTLEMAN. Amen.
SECOND GENTLEMAN. Besides, you know, it draws something near to the
SECOND GENTLEMAN. I never heard any soldier dislike it.
SECOND GENTLEMAN. No? A dozen times at least.
SECOND GENTLEMAN. To three thousand dolours a year.
SECOND GENTLEMAN. To what, I pray?
SECOND GENTLEMAN. Yes, that thou hast, whether thou art tainted or
SERVANT. He's hearing of a cause; he will come straight.
SERVANT. Here is the sister of the man condemn'd
SERVANT. Madam, there is alighted at your gate
SERVANT. One Isabel, a sister, desires access to you.
SERVANT. Where is my lady?
SERVANTS to Page, Ford, etc.
SERVINGMAN. The four strangers seek for you, madam, to take their
SEYTON. It is the cry of women, my good lord.            Exit.
SEYTON. The Queen, my lord, is dead.
SHALLOW, a country justice
SHALLOW.  [To PAGE] Will you go with us to behold it? My
SHALLOW. Ay, I think my cousin meant well.
SHALLOW. Ay, cousin Slender, and Custalorum.
SHALLOW. Ay, that I do; and have done any time these three
SHALLOW. Ay, there's the point, sir.
SHALLOW. Come, coz; come, coz; we stay for you. A word
SHALLOW. Cousin Abraham Slender, can you love her?
SHALLOW. Did her grandsire leave her seven hundred pound?
SHALLOW. Ha! o' my life, if I were young again, the sword
SHALLOW. Have with you, mine host.
SHALLOW. He hath wrong'd me, Master Page.
SHALLOW. Here comes fair Mistress Anne. Would I were
SHALLOW. I follow, mine host, I follow. Good even and
SHALLOW. I know the young gentlewoman; she has good
SHALLOW. I will wait on him, fair Mistress Anne!
SHALLOW. If it be confessed, it is not redressed; is not that
SHALLOW. It is an old coat.
SHALLOW. Knight, you have beaten my men, kill'd my deer,
SHALLOW. Master Page, I am glad to see you; much good do
SHALLOW. Nay, but understand me.
SHALLOW. Nay, conceive me, conceive me, sweet coz; what
SHALLOW. Not a whit.
SHALLOW. Sir Hugh, persuade me not; I will make a Star
SHALLOW. Sir, I thank you; by yea and no, I do.
SHALLOW. Sir, he's a good dog, and a fair dog. Can there be
SHALLOW. Sir, there is a fray to be fought between Sir Hugh
SHALLOW. That he will not. 'Tis your fault; 'tis your fault;
SHALLOW. That you must. Will you, upon good dowry,
SHALLOW. The Council shall hear it; it is a riot.
SHALLOW. The Council shall know this.
SHALLOW. The luce is the fresh fish; the salt fish is an old
SHALLOW. Tut, a pin! this shall be answer'd.
SHALLOW. Tut, sir, I could have told you more. In these
SHALLOW. Well, let us see honest Master Page. Is Falstaff
SHALLOW. You may, by marrying.
SHYLOCK, a rich Jew
SHYLOCK.  [Aside]  How like a fawning publican he looks!
SHYLOCK.  [Aside]  These be the Christian husbands! I have a
SHYLOCK. 'Tis very true. O wise and upright judge,
SHYLOCK. A Daniel come to judgment! Yea, a Daniel!
SHYLOCK. An oath, an oath! I have an oath in heaven.
SHYLOCK. Antonio is a good man.
SHYLOCK. Antonio shall become bound- well.
SHYLOCK. Ay, ay, three thousand ducats.
SHYLOCK. Ay, his breast-
SHYLOCK. For three months- well.
SHYLOCK. Gaoler, look to him. Tell not me of mercy-
SHYLOCK. Give me my principal, and let me go.
SHYLOCK. Hates any man the thing he would not kill?
SHYLOCK. Here 'tis, most reverend Doctor; here it is.
SHYLOCK. Ho, no, no, no, no; my meaning in saying he is a good man
SHYLOCK. How now, Tubal, what news from Genoa? Hast thou found my
SHYLOCK. I am bid forth to supper, Jessica;
SHYLOCK. I am content.
SHYLOCK. I am debating of my present store,
SHYLOCK. I am not bound to please thee with my answers.
SHYLOCK. I am very glad of it; I'll plague him, I'll torture him; I
SHYLOCK. I cannot find it; 'tis not in the bond.
SHYLOCK. I cannot tell; I make it breed as fast.
SHYLOCK. I had forgot- three months; you told me so.
SHYLOCK. I have possess'd your Grace of what I purpose,
SHYLOCK. I have them ready.
SHYLOCK. I pray you, give me leave to go from hence;
SHYLOCK. I say my daughter is my flesh and my blood.
SHYLOCK. I take this offer then: pay the bond thrice,
SHYLOCK. I thank God, I thank God. Is it true, is it true?
SHYLOCK. I thank thee, good Tubal. Good news, good news- ha, ha!-
SHYLOCK. I will be assur'd I may; and, that I may be assured, I
SHYLOCK. I'll have my bond. I will not hear thee speak;
SHYLOCK. I'll have my bond; speak not against my bond.
SHYLOCK. If every ducat in six thousand ducats
SHYLOCK. Is it so nominated in the bond?
SHYLOCK. Is that the law?
SHYLOCK. Most learned judge! A sentence! Come, prepare.
SHYLOCK. Most rightful judge!
SHYLOCK. My deeds upon my head! I crave the law,
SHYLOCK. My own flesh and blood to rebel!
SHYLOCK. Nay, take my life and all, pardon not that.
SHYLOCK. Nay, that's true; that's very true. Go, Tubal, fee me an
SHYLOCK. No, none that thou hast wit enough to make.
SHYLOCK. No, not take interest; not, as you would say,
SHYLOCK. O father Abram, what these Christians are,
SHYLOCK. O noble judge! O excellent young man!
SHYLOCK. On what compulsion must I? Tell me that.
SHYLOCK. Out upon her! Thou torturest me, Tubal. It was my
SHYLOCK. Shall I not have barely my principal?
SHYLOCK. She is damn'd for it.
SHYLOCK. Shylock is my name.
SHYLOCK. Signior Antonio, many a time and oft
SHYLOCK. So do I his.
SHYLOCK. The patch is kind enough, but a huge feeder,
SHYLOCK. Then meet me forthwith at the notary's;
SHYLOCK. There I have another bad match: a bankrupt, a prodigal,
SHYLOCK. This kindness will I show.
SHYLOCK. Thou stick'st a dagger in me- I shall never see my gold
SHYLOCK. Three thousand ducats for three months, and Antonio bound.
SHYLOCK. Three thousand ducats- 'tis a good round sum.
SHYLOCK. Three thousand ducats- well.
SHYLOCK. Till thou canst rail the seal from off my bond,
SHYLOCK. To bait fish withal. If it will feed nothing else, it will
SHYLOCK. To cut the forfeiture from that bankrupt there.
SHYLOCK. Well, thou shalt see; thy eyes shall be thy judge,
SHYLOCK. What judgment shall I dread, doing no wrong?
SHYLOCK. What says that fool of Hagar's offspring, ha?
SHYLOCK. What, are there masques? Hear you me, Jessica:
SHYLOCK. What, what, what? Ill luck, ill luck?
SHYLOCK. What, wouldst thou have a serpent sting thee twice?
SHYLOCK. When Jacob graz'd his uncle Laban's sheep-
SHYLOCK. When it is paid according to the tenour.
SHYLOCK. Who bi