"Elizabeth Lavenza
August 26th, 17--
[Wordsworth's "Tintern Abbey".]
Walton, in continuation.
"Do not let this letter disturb you; do not answer tomorrow,
"It gave me the greatest pleasure to receive a letter from my uncle
"My dear Friend,
"You have travelled; you have spent several years of your life
"You well know, Victor, that our union had been the favourite
-----The sounding cataract
An appetite; a feeling, and a love,
By thought supplied, or any interest
Chief Executive and Director
Dr. Gregory B. Newby
Haunted him like a passion:  the tall rock,
License.  You must require such a user to return or
Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
Project Gutenberg-tm works.
That had no need of a remoter charm,
The mountain, and the deep and gloomy wood,
Their colours and their forms, were then to him
Unborrow'd from the eye.
address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.
does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
gbnewby@pglaf.org
has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
http://www.gutenberg.net
money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
of receipt of the work.
owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."
the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
"Geneva, May 18th, 17--"
"Yet I fear that the same feelings now exist that made you so
"'Deed you AIN'T!  You never said no truer thing 'n that, you bet you."
"A guard!  Well, that IS good.  So somebody's got to set up all night and
"A piece of a raft," I says.
"AIN' dat gay?  En what dey got to do, Huck?"
"AIN'T you a sweet-scented dandy, though?  A bed; and bedclothes; and a
"After the murder of Clerval I returned to Switzerland, heart-broken
"Ain't they no Shepherdsons around?"
"Alas!  My father," said I, "how little do you know me.  Human beings,
"Alas!  Yes; I cannot withstand their demands.  I cannot lead them
"All ready--shove off!"
"All ready."
"All right, then; come along."
"All right," says I, "go ahead."
"All right.  I don't mind; but I say it's a fool way, anyhow.  Say, do we
"All right.  I'll ask him; and I'll make him pungle, too, or I'll know
"And ain't it natural and right for a cat and a cow to talk different
"And ain't you had nothing but that kind of rubbage to eat?"
"And do you dream?" said the daemon.  "Do you think that I was then
"And so you ain't had no meat nor bread to eat all this time?  Why didn't
"And wherefore was it glorious?  Not because the way was smooth and
"Another time a man comes a-prowling round here you roust me out, you
"Any men on it?"
"Are you better now, sir?" said she.
"As I fixed my eyes on the child, I saw something glittering on his
"At this time a slight sleep relieved me from the pain of reflection,
"Ay, sir, free enough for honest folks.  Mr. Kirwin is a magistrate,
"Be assured, sir," said he, "no pains or exertions on my part shall be
"Be done, boys!  Who's there?"
"Be happy, my dear Victor," replied Elizabeth; "there is, I hope,
"Because it ain't in the books so--that's why.  Now, Ben Rogers, do you
"Begone!  I do break my promise; never will I create another like
"Betsy" (this was a nigger woman), "you fly around and get him something
"Blame de point!  I reck'n I knows what I knows.  En mine you, de REAL
"Blame it, I'd sorter begun to think you wasn't.  Well, then, that's all
"Blamed if I would, Jim."
"Bless yo' heart for them words, Jake Packard!  I'll never forgit you
"Boy, that's a lie.  What IS the matter with your pap?  Answer up square
"But I didn' have no luck.  When we 'uz mos' down to de head er de islan'
"But I don't WANT him killed, and I've got my reasons for it."
"But I tell you you don't get the point."
"But hang it, Jim, you've clean missed the point--blame it, you've missed
"But how can we do it if we don't know what it is?"
"But it is true that I am a wretch.  I have murdered the lovely and the
"But looky here, Huck, who wuz it dat 'uz killed in dat shanty ef it
"But mind, you said you wouldn' tell--you know you said you wouldn' tell,
"But my toils now drew near a close, and in two months from this time I
"But some says he got out and got away, and come to America."
"But soon," he cried with sad and solemn enthusiasm, "I shall die, and
"But who are we going to rob?--houses, or cattle, or--"
"But you can guess, can't you?  It's just as easy."
"But, Huck, it's all jis' as plain to me as--"
"By Jackson, I'd LIKE to, and, blame it, I don't know but I will; but who
"By the sacred earth on which I kneel, by the shades that wander near
"COME in," says the woman, and I did.  She says:  "Take a cheer."
"Cairo? no.  You must be a blame' fool."
"Call this a govment! why, just look at it and see what it's like.
"Can you spell, Buck?"
"Can you wonder that such thoughts transported me with rage?  I only
"Come, now, what's your real name?"
"Couldn't they see better if they was to wait till daytime?"
"Course."
"Dad fetch it, how is I gwyne to dream all dat in ten minutes?"
"Dah she is?"
"Dah you goes, de ole true Huck; de on'y white genlman dat ever kep' his
"Dat's good!  But he'll be pooty lonesome--dey ain' no kings here, is
"De man ain't asleep--he's dead.  You hold still--I'll go en see."
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
"Den he cain't git no situation.  What he gwyne to do?"
"Devil, cease; and do not poison the air with these sounds of malice.
"Did you want to kill him, Buck?"
"Do so, if you will; but I will not.  You may give up your purpose, but
"Do you belong on it?"
"Do you, then, really return?"
"Doan' hurt me--don't!  I hain't ever done no harm to a ghos'.  I alwuz
"Doan' le's talk about it, Huck.  Po' niggers can't have no luck.  I
"Does a cat talk like a cow, or a cow talk like a cat?"
"Don't anybody know?"
"Don't gap and stretch like that, Huckleberry--why don't you try to
"Don't put your feet up there, Huckleberry;" and "Don't scrunch up like
"Don't you give me none o' your lip," says he.  "You've put on
"Drinkin'?  Has I ben a-drinkin'?  Has I had a chance to be a-drinkin'?"
"Easy enough.  Miss Hooker was a-visiting up there to the town--"
"Farewell!  I leave you, and in you the last of humankind whom these
"Fear not that I shall be the instrument of future mischief.  My work
"Fiend," I exclaimed, "your task is already fulfilled!"  I thought of
"For some days I haunted the spot where these scenes had taken place,
"For that matter," replied the old woman, "if you mean about the
"G-e-o-r-g-e J-a-x-o-n--there now," he says.
"GIT up!  What you 'bout?"
"George Jackson, sir.  I'm only a boy."
"George Jackson, sir."
"George Peters, mum."
"Get?"  I says; "why, they get a thousand dollars a month if they want
"Git up and hump yourself, Jim!  There ain't a minute to lose.  They're
"Give a nigger an inch and he'll take an ell."  Thinks I, this is what
"Gone away?  Why, what in the nation do you mean?  I hain't been gone
"Good land! what are they doin' THERE, for gracious sakes?"
"Good-bye, sir," says I; "I won't let no runaway niggers get by me if I
"Goodness gracious, is dat you, Huck?  En you ain' dead--you ain'
"Goshen, child?  This ain't Goshen.  This is St. Petersburg.  Goshen's
"Great guns! is HE her uncle?  Looky here, you break for that light over
"HOW?  Why, hain't you been talking about my coming back, and all that
"Harem."
"Has anybody been killed this year, Buck?"
"Has there been many killed, Buck?"
"Has this one been going on long, Buck?"
"Have you got hairy arms and a hairy breast, Jim?"
"Have you, then, some other attachment?"
"He struggled violently.  `Let me go,' he cried; `monster!  Ugly
"He was drunk, I reckon.  He told you just exactly wrong."
"He's said he'll tell, and he will.  If we was to give both our shares to
"He's white."
"Heave that blame lantern out o' sight, Bill!"
"Hello, Jim!" and skipped out.
"Hello, Jim, have I been asleep?  Why didn't you stir me up?"
"Hello, what's up?  Don't cry, bub.  What's the trouble?"
"Hello, you!"
"Here I is, Huck.  Is dey out o' sight yit?  Don't talk loud."
"Here's Huck Finn, he hain't got no family; what you going to do 'bout
"Here--come in here."
"Him?  He never done nothing to me."
"Hold on a minute.  I'll put you up a snack to eat.  You might want it."
"Hold on a minute; I hain't had my say yit.  You listen to me.
"Hold on, Parker," says the other man, "here's a twenty to put on the
"Hold on--'d you go through him?"
"Honey, I thought you said it was Sarah when you first come in?"
"How do you come to be here, Jim, and how'd you get here?"
"How does I talk wild?"
"How inconstant are your feelings!  But a moment ago you were moved by
"How is this?  I must not be trifled with, and I demand an answer.  If
"How you going to get them?"
"How you gwyne to git 'm?  You can't slip up on um en grab um; en how's a
"How you talk, Ben Rogers.  How can they get loose when there's a guard
"How you talk, Huck Finn.  Why, you'd HAVE to come when he rubbed it,
"How'm I going to guess," says I, "when I never heard tell of it before?"
"Huck--Huck Finn, you look me in de eye; look me in de eye.  HAIN'T you
"Hungry, too, I reckon.  I'll find you something."
"I am happy to remark, my dear son, that you have resumed your former
"I am not mad," I cried energetically; "the sun and the heavens, who
"I bet they didn't!  Why, great goodness, there ain't no chance for 'em
"I bet you can't spell my name," says I.
"I bet you what you dare I can," says he.
"I come heah de night arter you's killed."
"I consent to your demand, on your solemn oath to quit Europe forever,
"I couldn' git nuffn else," he says.
"I didn' know dey was so many un um.  I hain't hearn 'bout none un um,
"I didn't hope so.  They all crowded up and leaned over the rails, nearly
"I didn't think of that."
"I do not doubt that he hovers near the spot which I inhabit, and if he
"I do not know," said the man, "what the custom of the English may be,
"I do refuse it," I replied; "and no torture shall ever extort a
"I doan k'yer what de widder say, he WARN'T no wise man nuther.  He had
"I doan' want to go fool'n 'long er no wrack.  We's doin' blame' well, en
"I don't know where he was," says I; "where was he?"
"I don't know.  But that's what they do.  I've seen it in books; and so
"I don't know.  How do THEY get them?"
"I don't know; but it's so.  I got some of their jabber out of a book.
"I don't like that shooting from behind a bush.  Why didn't you step into
"I don't want nothing, sir.  I only want to go along by, but the dogs
"I don't want to, Jake Packard.  I'm for killin' him--and didn't he kill
"I gazed on my victim, and my heart swelled with exultation and hellish
"I hain't got no money, I tell you.  You ask Judge Thatcher; he'll tell
"I hain't got no money."
"I hain't got only a dollar, and I want that to--"
"I intended to reason.  This passion is detrimental to me, for you do
"I is, is I?  Well, you answer me dis:  Didn't you tote out de line in de
"I know that the sympathy of a stranger can be but of little relief to
"I laid dah under de shavin's all day.  I 'uz hungry, but I warn't
"I reck'n I could eat a hoss.  I think I could. How long you ben on de
"I reckon he WARN'T a coward.  Not by a blame' sight.  There ain't a
"I reckon maybe--I don't know."
"I reckon that old man was a coward, Buck."
"I reckon we'll go and see for ourselves."
"I see a light a-comin' roun' de p'int bymeby, so I wade' in en shove' a
"I swear," he cried, "by the sun, and by the blue sky of heaven, and by
"I thank you, Walton," he said, "for your kind intentions towards
"I thank you, but all that you mention is nothing to me; on the whole
"I thank you," replied I; "listen, therefore, to the deposition that I
"I tuck out en shin down de hill, en 'spec to steal a skift 'long de sho'
"I warn't prowling around, sir, I fell overboard off of the steamboat."
"I was a-listenin' to all de talk, en I slips into de river en was gwyne
"I will, sir, I will, honest--but don't leave us, please.  It's the--the
"I wish I'd never seen that snake-skin, Jim--I do wish I'd never laid
"I wish you would," says I, "because it's pap that's there, and maybe
"I wouldn' think nuff'n; I'd take en bust him over de head--dat is, if he
"I'd LIKE to!  And I orter, too--a mean skunk!"
"I'll give you something better--I'll give you a cowhide."
"I'll take the canoe and go and see, Jim.  It mightn't be, you know."
"If fifteen cows is browsing on a hillside, how many of them eats with
"If you consent, neither you nor any other human being shall ever see
"If you want to know, go and find out.  If you stay here botherin' around
"Is a cat a man, Huck?"
"It ain't yo' fault, Huck; you didn' know.  Don't you blame yo'self 'bout
"It don't make no difference how plain it is; there ain't nothing in it.
"It don't make no difference what you want it for--you just shell it
"It is well.  I go; but remember, I shall be with you on your
"It was evening when I arrived, and I retired to a hiding-place among
"It's a dead man.  Yes, indeedy; naked, too.  He's ben shot in de back.
"It's a lie, Jim Turner.  You've acted this way before.  You always want
"It's a lie.  Judge Thatcher's got it.  You git it.  I want it."
"It's good daylight.  Le's get breakfast.  Make up your camp fire good."
"It's me."
"It's natural and right for 'em to talk different from each other, ain't
"It's so.  You can do it.  I had my doubts when you told me.  Now looky
"It's something they give me for learning my lessons good."
"It's the--a--the--well, it ain't anything much."
"Jim!"
"Jim!"
"Jim, this is nice," I says.  "I wouldn't want to be nowhere else but
"Keep your eye on the rats.  You better have the lead in your lap,
"Laws, how do I know?  It was so long ago."
"Le's land on her, Jim."
"Light, feeling, and sense will pass away; and in this condition must I
"Look at it, gentlemen and ladies all; take a-hold of it; shake it.
"Look here, if you're telling the truth you needn't be afraid--nobody'll
"Look sharp, now; the current sets in the closest here, and maybe he's
"Looky here, Jim; does a cat talk like we do?"
"Looky here--mind how you talk to me; I'm a-standing about all I can
"M--Mary Williams."
"Man," I cried, "how ignorant art thou in thy pride of wisdom!  Cease;
"Maybe I am, maybe I ain't," I says.
"Maybe I better not tell."
"Maybe he won't.  But we got to have it anyway. Come along."
"Maybe we went by Cairo in the fog that night."
"Maybe you are come to a place that will not prove much to your taste,
"Mighty few--an' DEY ain't no use to a body.  What you want to know when
"Mister, is that town Cairo?"
"Most everybody thought it at first.  He'll never know how nigh he come
"Must we always kill the people?"
"My George!  It's the beatenest thing I ever struck.  And THEN what did
"My dear Victor, do not speak thus.  Heavy misfortunes have befallen
"My dear father, reassure yourself.  I love my cousin tenderly and
"My father!" cried I, while every feature and every muscle was relaxed
"NO, Jim; you couldn't understand a word they said--not a single word."
"Never heard of it before--tell me about it."
"Never mind, Buck, my boy," says the old man, "you'll have show enough,
"Never you mind, honey, never you mind.  Don't you git too peart.  It's
"No!  W'y, what has you lived on?  But you got a gun.  Oh, yes, you got a
"No'm, I ain't hungry.  I was so hungry I had to stop two miles below
"No'm.  In Hookerville, seven mile below.  I've walked all the way and
"No, I didn't lose it all.  I on'y los' 'bout nine of it.  I sole de hide
"No, I didn't.  What tow-head?  I hain't see no tow-head."
"No, a cat don't."
"No, a cow don't, nuther."
"No, but I ben rich wunst, and gwyne to be rich agin.  Wunst I had foteen
"No, dey don't."
"No, sah--nuffn else."
"No, she ain't either of them."
"No, sir, nobody."
"No, sir," I says, "I don't want to spend it.  I don't want it at all
"No, sir," I says; "is there some for me?"
"No, sir; I never heard of them."
"No, you won't.  Set down and stay where you are.  I ain't going to hurt
"No," I says; "I'll rest a while, I reckon, and go on.  I ain't afeared
"No--is that so?"
"No.  Didn't you?"
"No.  So he's got his share o' the cash yet."
"No."
"No."
"No; but I don't know everybody yet.  I haven't lived here quite two
"No; is dat so?"
"Nobody never told her."
"None on earth.  I love Elizabeth and look forward to our union with
"North side."
"Nothing indeed could be more unfortunate and agonizing than the
"Nothing only robbery and murder," Tom said.
"Now you think it's bad luck; but what did you say when I fetched in the
"Now, George Jackson, do you know the Shepherdsons?"
"Now, that's something LIKE.  That'll answer.  Why couldn't you said that
"Now, we'll start this band of robbers and call it Tom Sawyer's Gang.
"Now," says Ben Rogers, "what's the line of business of this Gang?"
"Nuffn never come of it.  I couldn' manage to k'leck dat money no way; en
"Of course it is.  They just set around--except, maybe, when there's a
"Oh!  Peace, peace, my love," replied I; "this night, and all will be
"Oh, certainly.  It's best.  Some authorities think different, but mostly
"Oh, dang it now, DON'T take on so; we all has to have our troubles, and
"Oh, it is not thus--not thus," interrupted the being.  "Yet such must
"Oh, my lordy, lordy!  RAF'?  Dey ain' no raf' no mo'; she done broke
"Oh, no, not everybody.  A good many thinks he done it.  But they'll get
"Oh, please don't, boys; I swear I won't ever tell!"
"Oh, she'll do.  That's all right.  Huck can come in."
"Oh, that's all very fine to SAY, Tom Sawyer, but how in the nation are
"Oh, that's the way of it?"
"Oh, the devil! we're in a hurry, boy.  But I s'pose we've got to.  Come,
"Oh, well, that's all interpreted well enough as far as it goes, Jim," I
"Oh, well, that's all right, because a dream does tire a body like
"Oh, yes'm, I did.  Sarah Mary Williams.  Sarah's my first name.  Some
"Oh, yes, a half-yearly is in last night--over a hundred and fifty
"Oh, yes, pa knows, I reckon, and some of the other old people; but they
"Oh, yes, this is a wonderful govment, wonderful.  Why, looky here.
"Oh, yes.  He went up-town with the man I was telling you of, to get a
"Oh, yes.  I knowed dey was arter you.  I see um go by heah--watched um
"Oh, you did, did you?  Strike a light there, somebody.  What did you say
"Oho-o!  I think I see.  You want to SELL all your property to me--not
"On the wreck."
"Only one, sir."
"Pap'll be mighty much obleeged to you, I can tell you.  Everybody goes
"Pap, and mam, and sis, and--"
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
"Please take it," says I, "and don't ask me nothing--then I won't have to
"Please to don't poke fun at a poor girl like me, mum.  If I'm in the way
"Po' little chap."
"Poor devil, there's something in that.  We are right down sorry for you,
"Pooty soon I'll be a-shout'n' for joy, en I'll say, it's all on accounts
"Quick!  Jump for the woods!"
"Quick, Jim, it ain't no time for fooling around and moaning; there's a
"Ransomed?  What's that?"
"Roun' de which?"
"Sarah Williams."
"Say, when a cow's laying down, which end of her gets up first?  Answer
"Say, who is you?  Whar is you?  Dog my cats ef I didn' hear sumf'n.
"Say, won't he suspicion what we're up to?"
"Set her back, John, set her back!" says one.  They backed water.  "Keep
"She was a-visiting there at Booth's Landing, and just in the edge of the
"Shucks, it ain't calling you anything.  It's only saying, do you know
"Shucks, it ain't no use to talk to you, Huck Finn.  You don't seem to
"Since the night I got killed."
"Slave, I before reasoned with you, but you have proved yourself
"Snatch that light away, Betsy, you old fool--ain't you got any sense?
"So I done it.  Den I reck'n'd I'd inves' de thirty-five dollars right
"So you lost the ten dollars."
"So'm I," says Packard, very quiet.
"Somebody tried to get in, so I was laying for him."
"Stand away!" and the cannon let off such a blast right before me that it
"Starchy clothes--very.  You think you're a good deal of a big-bug, DON'T
"Strawberries and such truck," I says.  "Is that what you live on?"
"Stuff! stealing cattle and such things ain't robbery; it's burglary,"
"THEY don't do nothing!  Why, how you talk! They just set around."
"That cannot be; but all that I can say will be of little avail.  My
"That he should live to be an instrument of mischief disturbs me; in
"That is also my victim!" he exclaimed.  "In his murder my crimes are
"That is my least concern; I am, by a course of strange events, become
"That's so, my boy--good-bye, good-bye.  If you see any runaway niggers
"The Shepherdsons don't, father.  They always take advantage."
"The child still struggled and loaded me with epithets which carried
"The expression of your sentiments of this subject, my dear Victor,
"The first light we see we'll land a hundred yards below it or above it,
"The for'rard end, mum."
"The hind end, mum."
"The hour of my irresolution is past, and the period of your power is
"The nigger run off the very night Huck Finn was killed.  So there's a
"The place where he keeps his wives.  Don't you know about the harem?
"The sleeper stirred; a thrill of terror ran through me.  Should she
"The whole fifteen, mum."
"The widow, hey?--and who told the widow she could put in her shovel
"The widow.  She told me."
"There he lies, white and cold in death.  You hate me, but your
"There; I reckon it's all right.  Come in."
"There; you see it says 'for a consideration.'  That means I have bought
"They lie--that's how."
"They're in an awful peck of trouble, and--"
"They're--they're--are you the watchman of the boat?"
"This suspense is a thousand times worse than the most horrible event;
"This was my duty, but there was another still paramount to that.  My
"Three hundred dollars is a power of money.  I wish my mother could get
"Tramp--tramp--tramp; that's the dead; tramp--tramp--tramp; they're
"True for you, Rachel--I forgot."
"Up where?  Where are they?"
"Urged by this impulse, I seized on the boy as he passed and drew him
"WELL, den!  Dad blame it, why doan' he TALK like a man?  You answer me
"WELL, den!  Warn' dat de beatenes' notion in de worl'?  You jes' take en
"WHICH candle?"  I says.
"WHO is?"
"Watchman your grandmother," I says; "there ain't nothing to watch but
"We better camp here if we can find a good place; the horses is about
"We's safe, Huck, we's safe!  Jump up and crack yo' heels!  Dat's de good
"Well, Ben Rogers, if I was as ignorant as you I wouldn't let on.  Kill
"Well, I 'uz gwyne to spen' it, but I had a dream, en de dream tole me to
"Well, I b'lieve you, Huck.  I--I RUN OFF."
"Well, I bet I did."
"Well, I did.  I said I wouldn't, and I'll stick to it.  Honest INJUN, I
"Well, I don't know.  But per'aps if we keep them till they're ransomed,
"Well, I don't know.  Some of them gets on the police, and some of them
"Well, I reckon there's a right smart chance of people HERE that'd like
"Well, I reckon you HAVE lived in the country.  I thought maybe you was
"Well, I should RECKON!  It started thirty year ago, or som'ers along
"Well, I think you're here, plain enough, but I think you're a
"Well, I tried to, but I couldn't; I couldn't budge you."
"Well, I'll learn her how to meddle.  And looky here--you drop that
"Well, I'm puzzled.  Is something the matter?"
"Well, all right.  Don't stand there palavering all day, but out with you
"Well, are you rich?"
"Well, but he WAS the wisest man, anyway; because the widow she told me
"Well, den, I reck'n I did dream it, Huck; but dog my cats ef it ain't de
"Well, den, dey ain't no sense in a cat talkin' like a man.  Is a cow a
"Well, den, she ain't got no business to talk like either one er the
"Well, den, why couldn't he SAY it?"
"Well, dey's reasons.  But you wouldn' tell on me ef I uz to tell you,
"Well, does a cow?"
"Well, fust I tackled stock."
"Well, guess," he says.
"Well, hain't he got a father?" says Tom Sawyer.
"Well, hang it all, you did dream it, because there didn't any of it
"Well, he did act like he was drunk, but it ain't no matter now.  I got
"Well, if that's the way I'm agreed, but I don't take no stock in it.
"Well, if you knowed where he was, what did you ask me for?"
"Well, it's a blame ridicklous way, en I doan' want to hear no mo' 'bout
"Well, it's all right anyway, Jim, long as you're going to be rich again
"Well, looky here, boss, dey's sumf'n wrong, dey is.  Is I ME, or who IS
"Well, my idea is this:  we'll rustle around and gather up whatever
"Well, nobody come after me, and it ain't right I'm always kept down; I
"Well, now, I be ding-busted!  How do dat come?"
"Well, that may be so, and it mayn't.  Now, all ready.  Step forward,
"Well, that's infernal mean.  Odd, too.  Say, boy, what's the matter with
"Well, that's so.  You've had to keep in the woods all the time, of
"Well, then, a horse?"
"Well, then, come along; no use to take truck and leave money."
"Well, then, what did you want to kill him for?"
"Well, then, what makes you talk so wild?"
"Well, then, why ain't it natural and right for a FRENCHMAN to talk
"Well, there's five niggers run off to-night up yonder, above the head of
"Well, they didn't go there a-purpose."
"Well, this is too many for me, Jim.  I hain't seen no fog, nor no
"Well, try to remember it, George.  Don't forget and tell me it's
"Well, we can wait the two hours anyway and see, can't we?"
"Well, we hollered and took on, but it's so wide there we couldn't make
"Well, what did come of it, Jim?"
"Well, when it come dark I tuck out up de river road, en went 'bout two
"Well, who done the shooting?  Was it a Grangerford or a Shepherdson?"
"Well, you must be most starved, ain't you?"
"Well, you see, it 'uz dis way.  Ole missus--dat's Miss Watson--she pecks
"Well, you wouldn't a ben here 'f it hadn't a ben for Jim.  You'd a ben
"Well, you're innocent, ain't you!  Does three hundred dollars lay around
"Well," I says, "s'pose we got some genies to help US--can't we lick the
"Well," he says, "if they'd a ben some, I reckon I'd a got one."
"Well," says Buck, "a feud is this way:  A man has a quarrel with another
"Well," says I, "I think they are a pack of flat-heads for not keeping
"Well," says I, "you done it, but I didn't think you could.  It ain't no
"Well," says I, a-blubbering, "I've told everybody before, and they just
"Wh--what, mum?"
"What a place is this that you inhabit, my son!" said he, looking
"What are you prowling around here this time of night for--hey?"
"What did he do to you?"
"What did you do with the ten cents, Jim?"
"What did you say your name was, honey?"
"What did you speculate in, Jim?"
"What do dey stan' for?  I'se gwyne to tell you.  When I got all wore out
"What do you want?"
"What fog?"
"What is it that agitates you, my dear Victor?  What is it you fear?"
"What kind of stock?"
"What might your name be?"
"What town is it, mister?"
"What was the trouble about, Buck?--land?"
"What wreck?"
"What you doin' with this gun?"
"What! and I as high as a tree and as big as a church?  All right, then;
"What's a feud?"
"What's de harem?"
"What's de use er makin' up de camp fire to cook strawbries en sich
"What's de use to ax dat question?  Don't you see I has?"
"What's that yonder?"
"What's the matter with you, Jim?  You been a-drinking?"
"What's this?"
"What's your real name?  Is it Bill, or Tom, or Bob?--or what is it?"
"What, all that time?"
"What, you don't mean the Walter Scott?"
"When younger," said he, "I believed myself destined for some great
"Where 'bouts do you live?  In this neighborhood?'
"Which side of a tree does the moss grow on?"
"While I was overcome by these feelings, I left the spot where I had
"Who dah?"
"Who done it?  We've heard considerable about these goings on down in
"Who is Mr. Kirwin?  Why am I to give an account of myself?  Is not
"Who makes them tear around so?"
"Who's me?"
"Who?  Me?  Go 'long.  Doan' talk to me 'bout yo' pints.  I reck'n I
"Why HE--"
"Why THAT'S all right.  Miss Hooker she tole me, PARTICULAR, that her
"Why didn't you roust me out?"
"Why, Buck, they might have scalped us all, you've been so slow in
"Why, Huck, doan' de French people talk de same way we does?"
"Why, Jim?"
"Why, a man I met at daybreak this morning, just as I was going to turn
"Why, any candle," he says.
"Why, are they after him yet?"
"Why, blame it all, we've GOT to do it.  Don't I tell you it's in the
"Why, blame it, it's a riddle, don't you see?  Say, how long are you
"Why, bless you, Saul, the poor thing's as wet as he can be; and don't
"Why, de fog!--de fog dat's been aroun' all night.  En didn't you whoop,
"Why, he IS a-saying it.  That's a Frenchman's WAY of saying it."
"Why, he was in the DARK!  That's where he was!"
"Why, how long you been on the island, Jim?"
"Why, live stock--cattle, you know.  I put ten dollars in a cow.  But I
"Why, mos' sholy it is."
"Why, my boy, you are all out of breath.  Did you come for your
"Why, nothing--only it's on account of the feud."
"Why, pap and mam and sis and Miss Hooker; and if you'd take your
"Why, there ain't but one."
"Why, they rub an old tin lamp or an iron ring, and then the genies come
"Why, what can you mean, my boy?"
"Why, where was you raised?  Don't you know what a feud is?"
"Why, whoever rubs the lamp or the ring.  They belong to whoever rubs the
"Why, yes, dat's so; I--I'd done forgot it.  A harem's a bo'd'n-house, I
"Why," said he, "a magician could call up a lot of genies, and they would
"Yes'm."
"Yes, Booth's Landing--go on."
"Yes, I reck'n you are.  But s'pose she DON'T break up and wash off?"
"Yes, I reckon so, 'm.  I don't see nothing in the way of it.  Has
"Yes, he's got a father, but you can't never find him these days.  He
"Yes, sir."
"Yes, the widow told me all about it."
"Yes," he says, kind of pretty-well-satisfied like.  "I'm the captain and
"Yes," he says.
"Yes," says I, "and other times, when things is dull, they fuss with the
"Yes--indeedy."
"Yes.  And couldn't the nigger see better, too?  After midnight he'll
"Yes.  You know that one-laigged nigger dat b'longs to old Misto Bradish?
"Yes."
"Yes."
"Yes; en I's rich now, come to look at it.  I owns mysef, en I's wuth
"Yes; right smart chance of funerals.  But they don't always kill.  Pa's
"Yes; we got one and they got one.  'Bout three months ago my cousin Bud,
"Yet I cannot ask you to renounce your country and friends to fulfil
"Yo' ole father doan' know yit what he's a-gwyne to do.  Sometimes he
"You are in the wrong," replied the fiend; "and instead of threatening,
"You bet it is.  But how you goin' to manage it this time?"
"You had five dollars and ten cents left.  Did you speculate any more?"
"You hain't seen no towhead?  Looky here, didn't de line pull loose en de
"You must create a female for me with whom I can live in the
"You propose," replied I, "to fly from the habitations of man, to dwell
"You swear," I said, "to be harmless; but have you not already shown a
"You travelled to seek happiness, but a fatality seems to pursue you.
"You will know that soon enough," replied a man with a hoarse voice.
"You, who call Frankenstein your friend, seem to have a knowledge of
"Your family is perfectly well," said Mr. Kirwin with gentleness; "and
"Your repentance," I said, "is now superfluous. If you had listened to
"`Boy, you will never see your father again; you must come with me.'
"`Frankenstein! you belong then to my enemy--to him towards whom I have
"`Hideous monster!  Let me go.  My papa is a syndic--he is M.
"crossing"; for the river was pretty high yet, very low banks being still
"he suffered not in the consummation of the deed. Oh!  Not the
"how I enjoy existence!  But you, my dear Frankenstein, wherefore are
"me-yow! me-yow!" as soft as I could, and then I put out the light and
'bout Sollermun, Huck, I knows him by de back."
'bout de killin'.  I 'uz powerful sorry you's killed, Huck, but I ain't
'bout six in de mawnin' skifts begin to go by, en 'bout eight er nine
'lowed to tell it to his old woman--she would think it was pretty good;
'mongst de drift-wood, en kep' my head down low, en kinder swum agin de
'prentice, that's all.  It ain't anything.  There ain't no harm in it.
'stead of keeping us out of it.  The lot of towheads was troubles we was
'uz sich a big stack o' money she couldn' resis'.  De widder she try to
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HUCKLEBERRY FINN ***
*** START: FULL LICENSE ***
******* This file should be named frank15.txt or frank15.zip *******
***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FRANKENSTEIN, OR THE MODERN
- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
--Gentlemen, if you'll only pull ahead, and let me heave you the
--and I was, too--and says:
--and the sweetest old gray-headed lady, and back of her two young women
--blacker, mostly, than is common.  One was a woman in a slim black dress,
--clumb in at an upstairs window.  But it was too dark to see yet, so we
--don't! hands off--they're cold; let go.  Oh, let a poor devil alone!"
--everybody was always good-mannered where he was.  Everybody loved to have
--him and another man.  He was gone up the river; but he got back to-day,
--more than a body could tell what to do with.  The Widow Douglas she took
--mostly of the name of Shepherdson.  They was as high-toned and well
--nor the six thousand, nuther.  I want you to take it; I want to give it
--pap done everything with his clasp-knife about the cooking.  Then I
--something was a stirring.  I set still and listened.  Directly I could
--such a hat for me to wear--one of the wealthiest men in this town if I
--that is, there's something in it when a body like the widow or the parson
--that's the thing I want to get at.  Now, what do you reckon it is?"
--there warn't none on the side.  They held the candle, and took a good
--three sons; they got killed; and Emmeline that died.
--won't you?"
--wouldn't he spread himself, nor nothing?  Why, you'd think it was
1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:
1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
1.E.9.
1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
1.F.
1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
A fiendish rage animated him as he said this; his face was wrinkled
A scene has just passed of such uncommon interest that, although it is
A thousand times would I have shed my own blood, drop by drop, to have
AFTER breakfast I wanted to talk about the dead man and guess out how he
Ab'litionist to go and steal them.
Abner Moore would take care of me, and so that was why I struck out for
About an hour after dinner everybody was dozing around, some in their
About half a dozen men came forward; and, one being selected by the
About this time I mighty near stepped on a good-sized snake, and it went
About twelve o'clock we turned out and went along up the bank.  The river
Adventures of Tom Sawyer; but that ain't no matter.  That book was made
After a slight repose, during which the spirits of the dead hovered
After an interval I arose, and as if by instinct, crawled into the room
After passing some months in London, we received a letter from a person
After some days spent in listless indolence, during which I traversed
After supper pap took the jug, and said he had enough whisky there for
After supper she got out her book and learned me about Moses and the
After the ceremony was performed a large party assembled at my
Afterwards Jim said the witches be witched him and put him in a trance,
All I could get to eat was berries and what was left over from breakfast.
All right.  Come along, old hoss."
All was again silent, but his words rang in my ears.  I burned with
Almost spent, as I was, by fatigue and the dreadful suspense I endured
Amidst the wilds of Tartary and Russia, although he still evaded me, I
And Jim said you mustn't count the things you are going to cook for
And did young Stephen sicken, And did young Stephen die? And did the sad
And every time he said that the man with the lantern would laugh and say:
And in he come, and Bill after him.  But before they got in I was up in
And nobody that didn't belong to the band could use that mark, and if he
And once he said:  "Hear him beg! and yit if we hadn't got the best of
And poor Clerval--"
And so for three days and nights.  No difference--just the same thing.
And so, take it all around, we made a good haul.  When we was ready to
And what, Margaret, will be the state of your mind?  You will not hear
And when time shall have softened your despair, new and dear objects of
And where does he now exist?  Is this gentle and lovely being lost
Another night when we was up at the head of the island, just before
Another voice said, pretty loud:
Another woman confirmed the account of the fishermen having brought the
Anybody but pap would a waited and seen the day through, so as to catch
Anybody that don't believe yet that it's foolishness to handle a
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
Arthur's Seat, St. Bernard's Well, and the Pentland Hills compensated
As I looked on him, his countenance expressed the utmost extent of
As I still pursued my journey to the northward, the snows thickened and
As I turned the promontory I perceived a small neat town and a good
As I was occupied in fixing the boat and arranging the sails, several
As Mr. Kirwin said this, notwithstanding the agitation I endured on
As he was proceeding along the sands, he struck his foot against
As my sickness quitted me, I was absorbed by a gloomy and black
As soon as I got started I took out after the raft, hot and heavy, right
As soon as I was in the old gentleman he locked the door and barred it
As soon as Tom was back we cut along the path, around the garden fence,
As the images that floated before me became more distinct, I grew
As the period fixed for our marriage drew nearer, whether from
As time passed away I became more calm; misery had her dwelling in my
At first I hated the school, but by and by I got so I could stand it.
At length we saw the numerous steeples of London, St. Paul's towering
Author: Mark Twain (Samuel Clemens)
BY ORDER OF THE AUTHOR, Per G.G., Chief of Ordnance.
BY and by, when we got up, we turned over the truck the gang had stole
Balum he couldn'.  I ain' gwyne to len' no mo' money 'dout I see de
Bekase why: would a wise man want to live in de mids' er sich a
Ben Rogers said he couldn't get out much, only Sundays, and so he wanted
Besides, they observed that it appeared that I had brought the body
Between two and three in the morning the moon rose; and I then, putting
Beyond Cologne we descended to the plains of Holland; and we resolved
Bill says:
Bob and Tom, some of you, and fetch the guns.  George Jackson, is there
Bob was the oldest and Tom next--tall, beautiful men with very broad
Buck looked about as old as me--thirteen or fourteen or along there,
Bulrushers, and I was in a sweat to find out all about him; but by and by
But I enjoyed friends, dear not only through habit and association,
But I reckon it was more than a cat-nap, for when I waked up the stars
But I was doomed to live and in two months found myself as awaking from
But I was in no mood to laugh and talk with strangers or enter into
But Jim was dead against it at first.  He says:
But by and by pap got too handy with his hick'ry, and I couldn't stand
But go ahead, I ain't got nothing to say."
But he found that a traveller's life is one that includes much pain
But in Clerval I saw the image of my former self; he was inquisitive
But in a little while I see a pale streak over the treetops, and knowed
But it didn't budge.  So I hollered again, and then Jim says:
But it warn't.  It was Jack-o'-lanterns, or lightning bugs; so he set
But mostly they hang round the harem."
But now, when I appeared almost within grasp of my foe, my hopes were
But take it all around, I was feeling ruther comfortable on accounts of
But that idea was a failure; for pretty soon it begun to storm again, and
But the next day I went exploring around down through the island.  I was
But this was not the time for delay; I disencumbered the dogs of their
But what I say is this:  it ain't good sense to go court'n around after a
But you have a husband and lovely children; you may be happy.
By Mark Twain
By and by along comes part of a log raft--nine logs fast together.  We
By and by he rolled out and jumped up on his feet looking wild, and he
By and by she come along, and she drifted in so close that they could a
By and by we talked about what we better do, and found there warn't no
By the quantity of provision which I had consumed, I should guess that
By the time it was night I was pretty hungry.  So when it was good and
By this time Jim was gone for the raft.  I was just a-biling with
CHAPTER I.
CHAPTER II.
CHAPTER III.
CHAPTER IV.
CHAPTER IX.
CHAPTER V.
CHAPTER VI.
CHAPTER VII.
CHAPTER VIII.
CHAPTER X.
CHAPTER XI.
CHAPTER XII.
CHAPTER XIII.
CHAPTER XIV.
CHAPTER XV.
CHAPTER XVI.
CHAPTER XVII.
CHAPTER XVIII.
COL.  GRANGERFORD was a gentleman, you see.  He was a gentleman all over;
Can any man be to me as Clerval was, or any woman another Elizabeth?
Chapter 17
Chapter 18
Chapter 19
Chapter 20
Chapter 21
Chapter 22
Chapter 23
Chapter 24
Character set encoding: ASCII
Christopher C'lumbus discovering Kingdom-Come.  I wish Tom Sawyer WAS
Clerval.  He came.  Alas, how great was the contrast between us!  He
Cold corn-pone, cold corn-beef, butter and buttermilk--that is what they
Come along now.  Come slow; push the door open yourself--just enough to
Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
Cumberland and Westmorland.  I could now almost fancy myself among the
Cumberland lakes, resolving to arrive at the completion of this tour
Cursed, cursed be the fiend that brought misery on his grey hairs and
DAMAGE.
DAT!"
Day after day, week after week, passed away on my return to Geneva; and
Daytimes we paddled all over the island in the canoe, It was mighty cool
De 'spute warn't 'bout a half a chile, de 'spute was 'bout a whole chile;
De white one gits him to go right a little while, den de black one sail
De yuther servants wouldn' miss me, kase dey'd shin out en take holiday
Deacon Winn get back the money he lost on pork?  Why can't the widow get
Declaration." There was some that they called crayons, which one of the
Despised love struck not with woe That head of curly knots, Nor stomach
Despondency rarely visited my heart; a high destiny seemed to bear me
Do you dare to break your promise?  I have endured toil and misery; I
During these last days I have been occupied in examining my past
EXPLANATORY
Each person had their own nigger to wait on them--Buck too.  My nigger
Ef I could git de ten CENTS back, I'd call it squah, en be glad er de
Elexander before you go, and then get out by saying it's George Elexander
Elizabeth alone had the power to draw me from these fits; her gentle
Elizabeth and my departed friends, who even now prepare for me the
Elizabeth had been restored to her by the Austrian government.  A small
Elizabeth seemed happy; my tranquil demeanour contributed greatly to
Elizabeth, my love, my wife, so lately living, so dear, so worthy.  She
Elizabeth, of my father, and of Clerval--all left behind, on whom the
England or entering into a long correspondence with those philosophers
European colonization and trade.  In Britain only could he further the
Even where the affections are not strongly moved by any superior
Every night now I used to slip ashore towards ten o'clock at some little
Every night we passed towns, some of them away up on black hillsides,
Every time a man died, or a woman died, or a child died, she would be on
Everybody said it was a real beautiful oath, and asked Tom if he got it
Everybody that wants to join has got to take an oath, and write his name
Everybody was willing.  So Tom got out a sheet of paper that he had wrote
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
Farewell."
Felix and the sanguinary laws of man, I had learned now to work
First you know you'll get religion, too.  I never see such a son."
For additional contact information:
Fortunately, as I spoke my native language, Mr. Kirwin alone understood
Foundation
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.
France long time ago; and about his little boy the dolphin, that would a
Frankenstein, who had at first been silent, and indeed appeared hardly
Frankenstein--he will punish you.  You dare not keep me.'
Friendship's Offering, full of beautiful stuff and poetry; but I didn't
From Derby, still journeying northwards, we passed two months in
From thence we proceeded to Oxford.  As we entered this city our minds
Geneva.  The sweet girl welcomed me with warm affection, yet tears were
George Jackson.  And mind, don't you hurry--come mighty slow.  If there's
God's sake, do not let him enter!"
Gone Yes Thou Art Gone Alas."  These was all nice pictures, I reckon, but
Goshen, I reckon."
Great God!  If for one instant I had thought what might be the hellish
Great God! what a scene has just taken place!  I am yet dizzy with the
Gunn's Family Medicine, which told you all about what to do if a body was
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.
Gutenberg-tm License.
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
HIM telling the people where I was.  I talked along, but he only set
HUCKLEBERRY FINN
HUCKLEBERRY FINN
Harney cover Buck with his gun; and then he rode away the way he come--to
Harry as what he is, and slam around money the way he does; but I've told
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Having parted from my friend, I determined to visit some remote spot of
He bounced up and stared at me wild.  Then he drops down on his knees,
He flung a bag of something into the boat, and then got in himself and
He got to hanging around the widow's too much and so she told him at last
He had a blanket around his head, and his head was nearly in the fire.  I
He had escaped me, and I must commence a destructive and almost endless
He had vowed TO BE WITH ME ON MY WEDDING-NIGHT, yet he did not consider
He jumped and got the canoe ready, and put his old coat in the bottom for
He jumped up yelling, and the first thing the light showed was the
He kept me with him all the time, and I never got a chance to run off.
He listened some more; then he come tiptoeing down and stood right
He looked pretty uneasy, and didn't say nothing for a minute.  Then he
He looked surprised.  He couldn't seem to make it out.  He says:
He paused, looking on me with wonder, and again turning towards the
He put his knife under him, and said he would sleep and get strong, and
He said he would like to see the widow get me.  He said he would watch
He said twenty mile more warn't far for the raft to go, but he wished we
He says:
He says:
He says:
He set there a-mumbling and a-growling a minute, and then he says:
He spoke this with a voice so modulated to the different feelings
He sprang from the cabin window as he said this, upon the ice raft
He stirred up in a kind of a startlish way; but when he see it was only
He studied a while, and then he says:
He took it and bit it to see if it was good, and then he said he was
He took up a little blue and yaller picture of some cows and a boy, and
He tore it up, and says:
He unlocked the door, and I cleared out up the river-bank.  I noticed
He was barefooted, and the snake bit him right on the heel.  That all
He was in the river under the stern oar, with just his nose out.  I told
He was most fifty, and he looked it.  His hair was long and tangled and
He went, and bent down and looked, and says:
He'd call it an adventure--that's what he'd call it; and he'd land on
He'll be drownded, and won't have nobody to blame for it but his own
Heaven bless you and make you so!
Henry soothed me, and I could thus cheat myself into a transitory
Henry wished to dissuade me, but seeing me bent on this plan, ceased to
Her sister, Miss Watson, a tolerable slim old maid, with goggles on,
Here's the law a-standing ready to take a man's son away from him--a
His sentence was pronounced, and I could only grieve and be patient.  I
His tale and the feelings he now expressed proved him to be a creature
His tale had occupied the whole day, and the sun was upon the verge of
His tale is connected and told with an appearance of the simplest
His voice became fainter as he spoke, and at length, exhausted by his
His words had a strange effect upon me.  I compassionated him and
Hookerville, but we don't know who 'twas that killed Huck Finn."
Hornback would want them; and then pretty soon the ferryboat give it up
Hornback's, and he'll foot the bill.  And don't you fool around any,
Hornback, and I can't be so blame' generous and good to Tom, Dick, and
How all this will terminate, I know not, but I had rather die than
How mutable are our feelings, and how strange is that clinging love we
Huck's money as easy as nothing."
Huck's money without having to bother a long time with a lawsuit.  People
Huck, thanks to goodness!"
Huck."
Huck; Huck done it.  Jim won't ever forgit you, Huck; you's de bes' fren'
I HAD shut the door to.  Then I turned around and there he was.  I used
I WANTED to go and look at a place right about the middle of the island
I WOULD come; but I lay I'd make that man climb the highest tree there
I again behold the sun and tread the green herbage of earth, which
I am content to reason with you.  I am malicious because I am
I am interrupted.  What do these sounds portend?  It is midnight; the
I attempted to accompany them and proceeded a short distance from the
I avoided explanation and maintained a continual silence concerning the
I behold this and live?  Alas!  Life is obstinate and clings closest
I bore.  I see him now, excellent and venerable old man!  His eyes
I broke from the house angry and disturbed and retired to meditate on
I broke in and says:
I buckled to my paddle and they laid to their oars.  When we had made a
I cannot guess how many days have passed since then, but I have endured
I clumb up the shed and crept into my window just before day was
I concealed my feelings by an appearance of hilarity that brought
I could almost kissed HIS foot to get him to take it back.
I could hear the mumble, and now and then a laugh, too, but it seemed a
I could not collect the courage to recommence my work.  I feared the
I could.  Every now and then I stopped a second amongst the thick leaves
I couldn't hardly hang on to the shutters, I was so weak.  But Bill says:
I couldn't see but a little ways, but I went poking along over rough
I couldn't see no advantage in going where she was going, so I made up my
I dared not die and leave my adversary in being.
I darted towards the spot from which the sound proceeded, but the devil
I desired that I might pass my life on that barren rock, wearily, it is
I determined to quit my island at the expiration of two days.  Yet,
I did not satisfy my own desires. They were forever ardent and
I did wish the fool would think to beat a tin pan, and beat it all the
I didn't answer up prompt.  I tried to, but the words wouldn't come. I
I didn't care no more about him, because I don't take no stock in dead
I didn't care what was the reason they didn't get us as long as they
I didn't hurry; I couldn't if I'd a wanted to.  I took one slow step at a
I didn't look at him at all.  Jim throwed some old rags over him, but he
I didn't lose no time.  The next minute I was a-spinning down stream soft
I didn't see it.  Pap told me.  But anyway it all come of looking at the
I didn't sleep much.  I couldn't, somehow, for thinking.  And every time
I didn't somehow seem to take to them, because if ever I was down a
I didn't wait, but shoved out and paddled away easy.  I tied up in the
I dived--and I aimed to find the bottom, too, for a thirty-foot wheel had
I don't know how long I was asleep, but all of a sudden there was an
I done it.  She looked me all over with her little shiny eyes, and says:
I done the same.  You couldn't a got drunk in that time, so of course
I enjoyed this scene, and yet my enjoyment was embittered both by the
I exchanged my land-sledge for one fashioned for the inequalities of
I felt just the way any other boy would a felt when I see that wreck
I followed, when I could, the courses of the rivers; but the daemon
I found him roosting on the bitts forward, with his head down between his
I got a good place amongst the leaves, and set there on a log, munching
I got my traps out of the canoe and made me a nice camp in the thick
I got the things all up to the cabin, and then it was about dark.  While
I got to feeling so mean and so miserable I most wished I was dead.  I
I got up and turned around in my tracks three times and crossed my breast
I greased it up and went to work.  There was an old horse-blanket nailed
I had been calm during the day, but so soon as night obscured the
I had forgot it.  We laid up for the day on a towhead tolerable close to
I had got so uneasy I couldn't set still.  I had to do something with my
I had heard about some of these things before, but not all of them.  Jim
I had lost.
I had passed three weeks in this journey; and the continual protraction
I had to claw away from the bank pretty lively four or five times, to
I had wore the ground a good deal crawling out of the hole and dragging
I have declared my resolution to you, and I am no coward to bend beneath
I have endured incalculable fatigue, and cold, and hunger; do you dare
I have no ties and no affections, hatred and vice must be my portion;
I heard one man say it was nearly three o'clock, and he hoped daylight
I heard the people stirring around in the house now, and see a light.
I heard what they said, too--every word of it.  One man said it was
I hoped to intercept him before he should reach the beach.  With new
I inquired the way to the inn, but no one replied.  I then moved
I judged he didn't know nothing about what he had been doing, so I says:
I just give up then.  I knowed what the matter was.  That cut bank was an
I kept quiet, with my ears cocked, about fifteen minutes, I reckon.  I
I know not by what chain of thought the idea presented itself, but it
I know, because I've been here all the time."
I knowed I was all right now.  Nobody else would come a-hunting after me.
I knowed a potato would do that before, but I had forgot it.
I left the room, and locking the door, made a solemn vow in my own
I listened to my father in silence and remained for some time incapable
I lit a pipe and had a good long smoke, and went on watching.  The
I made fast and laid down under Jim's nose on the raft, and began to gap,
I made my mark on the paper.
I made myself go up to the little room that used to be hers and get out
I make this explanation for the reason that without it many readers would
I mentioned in my last letter the fears I entertained of a mutiny.
I must pursue and destroy the being to whom I gave existence;
I never see such a nigger.  If he got a notion in his head once, there
I now made arrangements for my journey, but one feeling haunted me
I opened my eyes and looked around, trying to make out where I was.  It
I paddled to the raft.  Jim was awful disappointed, but I said never
I passed an hour in this state of mind, when suddenly I reflected how
I paused some time to reflect on all he had related and the various
I pursued him, and for many months this has been my task.  Guided by a
I read considerable to Jim about kings and dukes and earls and such, and
I reck'n he's ben dead two er three days.  Come in, Huck, but doan' look
I reckon I shook like a leaf, and I didn't know hardly what to do.  But I
I reckon I was up in the tree two hours; but I didn't see nothing, I
I remembered also the necessity imposed upon me of either journeying to
I remembered only, and it was with a bitter anguish that I reflected on
I replied in the same language, with a feeble voice, "I believe I am;
I sat one evening in my laboratory; the sun had set, and the moon was
I saw the filthy mass that moved and talked, my heart sickened and my
I says, "Don't you ask me no questions about it, please.  You'll take it
I says:
I says:
I says:
I see it warn't no use wasting words--you can't learn a nigger to argue.
I set down again, a-shaking all over, and got out my pipe for a smoke;
I set down one time back in the woods, and had a long think about it.  I
I set it down, private, because somebody might want ME to spell it next,
I shall soon cease to be--a miserable spectacle of wrecked humanity,
I shall soon die, and he, my enemy and persecutor, may still be in
I shot this fellow and took him into camp.
I should comply with his request.  Turning to him, therefore, I said,
I shoved right into the timber where my old camp used to be, and started
I so fondly loved and to lie in wait for the murderer, that if any
I started across to the town from a little below the ferry-landing, and
I started forward and exclaimed, "Villain!  Before you sign my
I started up the Illinois shore in the canoe just after dark.
I stood a-looking at him; he set there a-looking at me, with his chair
I stopped.  I reckoned I better keep still.  She run on, and never
I struck for the light, but as soon as he turned the corner I went back
I sung out for Jim about a dozen times, but I didn't get any answer; so I
I thought all this over for two or three days, and then I reckoned I
I threw myself into the carriage that was to convey me away, hardly
I throwed the paddle down.  I heard the whoop again; it was behind me
I thus addressed him was impressive but calm; I had formed in my own
I told Jim all about what happened inside the wreck and at the ferryboat,
I told them how pap and me and all the family was living on a little farm
I took a good gap and a stretch, and was just going to unhitch and start
I took after it; but when I got to it it warn't nothing but a couple of
I took the axe and smashed in the door.  I beat it and hacked it
I took the canoe out from the shore a little piece, and took a look; but
I took the hand of Elizabeth.  "You are sorrowful, my love.  Ah!  If
I took the sack of corn meal and took it to where the canoe was hid, and
I took up a book and begun something about General Washington and the
I trembled and my heart failed within me, when, on looking up, I saw by
I trembled violently at his exordium, and my father continued--"I
I trembled with excess of agitation as I said this; there was a frenzy
I turned with loathing from the woman who could utter so unfeeling a
I visited Edinburgh with languid eyes and mind; and yet that city might
I waked up I thought somebody had me by the neck.  So the sleep didn't do
I waked up in the morning, drat it all, I had forgot what my name was.
I walked about the isle like a restless spectre, separated from all it
I warn't gwyne to show mysef on de bank in de daytime."
I was agonized with the idea of the possibility that the reverse of
I was answered through the stillness of night by a loud and fiendish
I was at first touched by the expressions of his misery; yet, when I
I was away below the ferry now.  I rose up, and there was Jackson's
I was carried out of the room in strong convulsions.  A fever succeeded
I was cooking supper the old man took a swig or two and got sort of
I was exceedingly surprised on receiving so rude an answer from a
I was feeling better then, but I wished I was out of there, anyway.  I
I was happy and beloved, was dear to me, now, in my adversity, became
I was impatient to arrive at the termination of my journey.
I was just about to go and vote myself if I warn't too drunk to get
I was moved.  I shuddered when I thought of the possible consequences
I was paddling off, all in a sweat to tell on him; but when he says this,
I was parched by thirst, a slight cloud would bedim the sky, shed the
I was powerful lazy and comfortable--didn't want to get up and cook
I was pretty hungry, but it warn't going to do for me to start a fire,
I was pretty tired, and the first thing I knowed I was asleep.  When I
I was soon introduced into the presence of the magistrate, an old
I was sorry to hear Jim say that, it was such a lowering of him.  My
I was sound asleep, and the candle burning.
I was up in a second and shinning down the hill.  I looked over my
I went along up the bank with one eye out for pap and t'other one out for
I went down to the front garden and clumb over the stile where you go
I went into the wigwam; Jim warn't there.  I looked all around; he warn't
I went off in the canoe to ask about it.  Pretty soon I found a man out
I went up and set down on a log at the head of the island, and looked out
I went up the bank about fifty yards, and then I doubled on my tracks and
I will not doubt that it was set there by the spirits that I had
I won't either; I'm a-going to see what's going on here.  So I dropped on
I would have seized him, but he eluded me and quitted the house with
I write to you, encompassed by peril and ignorant whether I am ever
I'd feel bad--I'd feel just the same way I do now.  Well, then, says I,
I'll go and fix up some kind of a yarn, and get somebody to go for that
I'll tell you what to do.  Don't you try to land by yourself, or you'll
I'm all tired out."
I've noticed that thing plenty times since.  If you are with the quality,
I. had collected his forces.  This city had remained faithful to him,
I? Is I heah, or whah IS I?  Now dat's what I wants to know."
IN about a minute somebody spoke out of a window without putting his head
IN this book a number of dialects are used, to wit:  the Missouri negro
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
IT must a been close on to one o'clock when we got below the island at
If Emmeline Grangerford could make poetry like that before she was
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
If the men went to the island I just expect they found the camp fire I
If this journey had taken place during my days of study and happiness,
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Illinois bank--about a quarter of a mile.  I went out in the woods and
Illinois shore where it was woody and there warn't no houses but an old
In St. Petersburg they used to say there was twenty or thirty thousand
In a few minutes after, I heard the creaking of my door, as if some one
In about a week after the arrival of Elizabeth's letter we returned to
In another second or two it was solid white and still again.  I set
In the mean time I worked on, and my labour was already considerably
In the meantime I took every precaution to defend my person in case the
In this manner I distributed my occupations when I first arrived, but
In this retreat I devoted the morning to labour; but in the evening,
In this state of mind I wrote to Elizabeth.  My letter was calm and
Indian enterprise.  He could not any longer delay his departure; but as
International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
Ireland and never alluded to them or suffered me to speak of my
Island, about two mile and a half down stream, heavy timbered and
Islands at the hour the body of my friend was found; and a fortnight
It did come, too.  It was a Tuesday that we had that talk.  Well, after
It did seem a powerful long time before Jim's light showed up; and when
It didn't take me long to get there.  I shot past the head at a ripping
It had clouded up pretty dark just after I got on to the raft, but it was
It is past; I am returning to England.  I have lost my hopes of utility
It most froze me to hear such talk.  He wouldn't ever dared to talk such
It was a double house, and the big open place betwixt them was roofed and
It was a mighty nice family, and a mighty nice house, too.  I hadn't seen
It was a monstrous big river here, with the tallest and the thickest kind
It was about dark now; so I dropped the canoe down the river under some
It was after my return from one of these rambles that my father,
It was all grass clear to the canoe, so I hadn't left a track.  I
It was eight o'clock when we landed; we walked for a short time on the
It was fifteen minutes before I could work myself up to go and humble
It was in the latter end of September that I again quitted my native
It was kind of lazy and jolly, laying off comfortable all day, smoking
It was long before he was restored, and I often thought that life was
It was one of these long, slanting, two-mile crossings; so I was a good
It was pretty close to the shanty, and I thought I heard the old man
It was the leaves and rubbish on the raft and the smashed oar.  You could
It was the raft, and mighty glad was we to get aboard of it again.  We
It was twelve foot wide and about fifteen or sixteen foot long, and the
It was very good poetry.  This is what she wrote about a boy by the name
Jackson's Island is good enough for me; I know that island pretty well,
Jim didn't say nothing for about five minutes, but set there studying
Jim found him there.  Well, by night I forgot all about the snake, and
Jim he found a ratty old fiddle-bow, and a wooden leg.  The straps was
Jim he grumbled a little, but give in.  He said we mustn't talk any more
Jim laid it in with all his might, for he was most about starved.  Then
Jim looked at the trash, and then looked at me, and back at the trash
Jim made a floor for the wigwam, and raised it a foot or more above the
Jim never asked no questions, he never said a word; but the way he worked
Jim put the quarter under the hair-ball, and got down and listened again.
Jim said he reckoned I would believe him next time.  And he said that
Jim said if we had the canoe hid in a good place, and had all the traps
Jim said it was a sign it was going to rain.  He said it was a sign when
Jim says:
Jim sucked and sucked at the jug, and now and then he got out of his head
Jim talked out loud all the time while I was talking to myself.  He was
Jim to float along down, and show a light when he judged he had gone
Jim was for putting our traps in there right away, but I said we didn't
Jim was laid up for four days and nights.  Then the swelling was all gone
Jim whispered and said he was feeling powerful sick, and told me to come
Jim's ever had; en you's de ONLY fren' ole Jim's got now."
Jist because we stood on our RIGHTS--that's what for.  But I lay you
Justine, and to reflect on the events connected with those names filled
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
Language: English
Let me go, or I will tell my papa.'
Liberty, however, had been a useless gift to me, had I not, as I
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
Literary Archive Foundation
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
Little Tommy Barnes was asleep now, and when they waked him up he was
London was our present point of rest; we determined to remain several
MAKE no track.
Margaret, what comment can I make on the untimely extinction of this
Mary, and the Widow Douglas is all told about in that book, which is
Matlock, with which that terrible scene was thus associated.
Mighty soon we'll have the cave so cluttered up with women, and fellows
Miserable himself that he may render no other wretched, he ought to
Miss Charlotte she held her head up like a queen while Buck was telling
Miss Hooker she said if I didn't strike help sooner, come here and hunt
Miss Hooker's remainders, because the captain would know her uncle
Miss Watson she kept pecking at me, and it got tiresome and lonesome.  By
Miss Watson's nigger, Jim, had a hair-ball as big as your fist, which had
Mississippi, I reckon.  Jim said he hadn't ever seen a bigger one.  He
Mont Saleve, the pleasant banks of Montalegre, and at a distance,
Morning dawned before I arrived at the village of Chamounix; I took no
Mornings before daylight I slipped into cornfields and borrowed a
Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:
Mr. Kirwin regarded me with a troubled countenance.  He could not help
Mr. Kirwin, on hearing this evidence, desired that I should be taken
My beloved Sister,                                  September 2nd
My change of manner surprised and pleased the magistrate; perhaps he
My courage and perseverance were invigorated by these scoffing words; I
My father had often, during my imprisonment, heard me make the same
My father tried to awaken in me the feelings of affection.  He talked
My father was enraptured on finding me freed from the vexations of a
My father yielded at length to my desire to avoid society and strove by
My first resolution was to quit Geneva forever; my country, which, when
My hands shook, and I was making a bad job of it.  When the woman stopped
My heart jumped up amongst my lungs.  I never waited for to look further,
My imagination was vivid, yet my powers of analysis and application
My life, as it passed thus, was indeed hateful to me, and it was during
My mother's down sick, and out of money and everything, and I come to
My present situation was one in which all voluntary thought was
My uncle will send me news of your health, and if I see but one
My unfortunate guest regards me with the tenderest compassion.  He
NOTICE
Never Hear Thy Sweet Chirrup More Alas."  There was one where a young
Next I got to itching underneath.  I didn't know how I was going to set
Next Sunday we all went to church, about three mile, everybody
Next day he was drunk, and he went to Judge Thatcher's and bullyragged
Next morning I said it was getting slow and dull, and I wanted to get a
Next, for about a half an hour, I whoops now and then; at last I hears
Night, and the spirits that preside over thee, to pursue the daemon who
No whooping-cough did rack his frame, Nor measles drear with spots; Not
No, says I to my self, there ain't nothing in it.  I went and told the
No, sir, we'll just go on and ransom them in the regular way."
No; such was not the fate of Young Stephen Dowling Bots; Though sad
Nor did my hate long confine itself to useless wishes; I began to
Nothing could be more complete than the alteration that had taken place
Nothing, at this moment, could have given me greater pleasure than the
Now she had got a start, and she went on and told me all about the good
Now the way that the book winds up is this:  Tom and me found the money
O no.  Then list with tearful eye, Whilst I his fate do tell. His soul
ODE TO STEPHEN DOWLING BOTS, DEC'D
Oh!  When will my guiding spirit, in conducting me to the daemon, allow
Oh, Frankenstein!  Generous and self-devoted being!  What does it avail
Ohio amongst the free States, and then be out of trouble.
On hearing this information I suffered a temporary access of despair.
On the whole island there were but three miserable huts, and one of
Once I got a fish-line, but no hooks.  It warn't any good to me without
One day Buck and me was away out in the woods hunting, and heard a horse
One morning I happened to turn over the salt-cellar at breakfast.  I
One night we catched a little section of a lumber raft--nice pine planks.
Our conversations are not always confined to his own history and
PERSONS attempting to find a motive in this narrative will be prosecuted;
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK
PROMETHEUS***
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
Packard didn't take no notice of that, but hung up his lantern on a nail
Pap he hadn't been seen for more than a year, and that was comfortable
Pap warn't in a good humor--so he was his natural self.  He said he was
Pap was agoing on so he never noticed where his old limber legs was
Pardon this gush of sorrow; these ineffectual words are but a slight
Parliament and liberty.  The memory of that unfortunate king and his
Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
Presbyterian Observer, and write poetry after them out of her own head.
Pretty soon I heard a twig snap down in the dark amongst the trees
Pretty soon I wanted to smoke, and asked the widow to let me.  But she
Pretty soon he was all fagged out, and fell down panting; then he rolled
Produced by David Widger. Previous editions produced by Ron Burkey
Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.
Providences, and a poor chap would stand considerable show with the
Put it on the floor behind the front door.  Bob, if you and Tom are
Quick--hurry!  I'll hunt the labboard side, you hunt the stabboard.
Release Date: August 20, 2006 [EBook #76]
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
Rogers, and two or three more of the boys, hid in the old tanyard.  So we
Rotterdam, whence we might take shipping for London.  During this
S'pose a man was to come to you and say Polly-voo-franzy--what would you
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
Sawyer couldn't get up no better plan than what I had.  Then I says:
Sawyer said I was a numskull.
Sawyer waiting for me.
Say, I reckon your father's poor, and I'm bound to say he's in pretty
Say, lemme hear you read."
Saying this, he suddenly quitted me, fearful, perhaps, of any change in
Says I to myself, something's up; it ain't natural for a girl to be in
Scene:  The Mississippi Valley Time:  Forty to fifty years ago
Scoffing devil!  Again do I vow vengeance; again do I devote thee,
Scotland and finish my work in solitude.  I did not doubt but that the
Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm
Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
September 12th
September 5th
September 7th
September 9th, the ice began to move, and roarings like thunder were
Several hours passed, and I remained near my window gazing on the sea;
Several other men were examined concerning my landing, and they agreed
She left me, and I continued some time walking up and down the passages
She put me in them new clothes again, and I couldn't do nothing but sweat
She said she wouldn't let me go by myself, but her husband would be in by
Shepherdsons done the same.  It was pretty ornery preaching--all about
Shooting's good, but there's quieter ways if the thing's GOT to be done.
Shutting the door, he approached me and said in a smothered voice, "You
So I laid there about an hour trying to think, and when Buck waked up I
So I quit.
So I said it wouldn't be no use to try to play it any longer, and I would
So I signed it, and left.
So I took my paddle and slid out from shore just a step or two, and then
So Jim went to work and told me the whole thing right through, just as it
So he dozed off pretty soon.  By and by I got the old split-bottom chair
So he set down on the ground betwixt me and Tom.  He leaned his back up
So he took him to his own house, and dressed him up clean and nice, and
So she dropped the lump into my lap just at that moment, and I clapped my
So she put me up a snack, and says:
So the old lady says:
So they all made fun of him, and called him cry-baby, and that made him
So they got out and went in.
So they shook it, one after the other, all around, and cried.  The
So they started, and I lit out, all in a cold sweat, and scrambled
So was her sister, Miss Sophia, but it was a different kind.  She was
So we shoved out after dark on the raft.
So we went back and got the canoe, and paddled up abreast the cavern, and
So we went over to where the canoe was, and while he built a fire in a
So'll my old man if you want him to.  You see, you're a runaway
Sollermun de wises' man dat ever live'.  I doan' take no stock in dat.
Sollermun was gwyne to do wid de chile.  Now I want to ast you:  what's
Solomon had one; he had about a million wives."
Solomon slide.  I told about Louis Sixteenth that got his head cut off in
Some hours passed thus; but by degrees, as the sun declined towards the
Some thought it would be good to kill the FAMILIES of boys that told the
Some weeks before this period I had procured a sledge and dogs and thus
Some young birds come along, flying a yard or two at a time and lighting.
Somehow it didn't seem to me that I said it was Mary before, so I didn't
Sometimes a stack of people would come there, horseback, from ten or
Soon as I could get Buck down by the corn-cribs under the trees by
Sophia standing in her door, which was next to ours, and she took me in
Spaniards and A-rabs, and there warn't no camels nor no elephants.  It
Spaniards and A-rabs, but I wanted to see the camels and elephants, so I
Spanish Armada, Gravesend, Woolwich, and Greenwich--places which I had
States.
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
Strasbourg, arrived at Mainz.  The course of the Rhine below Mainz
Such were the lessons of my father.  But to me the remembrance of the
Surely in that moment I should have been possessed by frenzy and have
Sweet and beloved Elizabeth!  I read and reread her letter, and some
Swiss mountains.  The little patches of snow which yet lingered on the
Switzerland, I received the following letter from Elizabeth:
THE AUTHOR.
THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
THE sun was up so high when I waked that I judged it was after eight
THIS warn't one of the short ones, he reckoned--and then they laughed,
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
That night about ten we hove in sight of the lights of a town away down
That pleased the old man till he couldn't rest.  He said he'd cowhide me
Thatcher knowed how to do it.  And he said people allowed there'd be
Thatcher's as quick as I could get there.  He said:
The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, Complete
The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
The being finished speaking and fixed his looks upon me in the
The candle was on the floor, and there they all was, looking at me, and
The colleges are ancient and picturesque; the streets are almost
The conclusion of this speech convinced my father that my ideas were
The deck was high out here.  We went sneaking down the slope of it to
The deep grief which this scene had at first excited quickly gave way
The die is cast; I have consented to return if we are not destroyed.
The door of the cavern was big enough to roll a hogshead in, and on one
The door slammed to because it was on the careened side; and in a half
The duration of my absence was left to my own choice; a few months, or
The fifth night below St. Louis we had a big storm after midnight, with a
The first part of this deposition did not in the least interest me, but
The human frame could no longer support the agonies that I endured, and
The judge and the widow went to law to get the court to take me away from
The judge he felt kind of sore.  He said he reckoned a body could reform
The latter part of his tale had kindled anew in me the anger that had
The light begun to come before we got to the foot of the island.  Then we
The magistrate appeared at first perfectly incredulous, but as I
The man on the floor would shrivel up and say, "Oh, please don't, Bill; I
The man sung out:
The monster saw my determination in my face and gnashed his teeth in
The name of my unfortunate and murdered friend was an agitation too
The neighbors said it was the doctor first, then Emmeline, then the
The night passed away, and the sun rose from the ocean; my feelings
The old gentleman owned a lot of farms and over a hundred niggers.
The old man made me go to the skiff and fetch the things he had got.
The place to buy canoes is off of rafts laying up at shore.  But we
The report of the pistol brought a crowd into the room. I pointed to
The river went on raising and raising for ten or twelve days, till at
The scenery of external nature, which others regard only with
The season of the assizes approached.  I had already been three months
The shadings have not been done in a haphazard fashion, or by guesswork;
The son confirmed his father's account, but when Daniel Nugent was
The spirits that guarded me had provided these moments, or rather
The sun had far descended, and I still sat on the shore, satisfying my
The sun sank lower in the heavens; we passed the river Drance and
The thought was madness; it stirred the fiend within me--not I, but
The voyage came to an end.  We landed, and proceeded to Paris.  I soon
The whooping went on, and in about a minute I come a-booming down on a
The widow she cried over me, and called me a poor lost lamb, and she
The wind, which had fallen in the south, now rose with great violence
The wind, which had hitherto carried us along with amazing rapidity,
The woman kept looking at me pretty curious, and I didn't feel a bit
Them's the very words I said; they all heard me; and the country may rot
Then I broke down.  He says:
Then I jumped in the canoe and dug out for our place, a mile and a half
Then I tied up the rip in the meal sack with a string, so it wouldn't
Then I told him the whole thing, and he said it was smart.  He said Tom
Then Jim manned the oars, and we took out after our raft.  Now was the
Then he dropped down and went to sleep again; but what he had been saying
Then he got up slow and walked to the wigwam, and went in there without
Then he went down on all fours and crawled off, begging them to let him
Then he wrote something on a paper and read it over, and says:
Then here comes the ferryboat; so I shoved for the middle of the river on
Then she got to talking about her husband, and about her relations up the
Then she took off the hank and looked me straight in the face, and very
Then there was Miss Charlotte; she was twenty-five, and tall and proud
Then they all stuck a pin in their fingers to get blood to sign with, and
Then we got out, and I was in a sweat to get away; but nothing would do
Then we talked about the money.  It was a pretty good raise--twenty
There ain't no sense in it; go for the steam ferry.'  Now if you'll go
There warn't nothing to do now but to look out sharp for the town, and
There was a clock on the middle of the mantelpiece, with a picture of a
There was a fifty-pound sack of corn meal, and a side of bacon,
There was a free nigger there from Ohio--a mulatter, most as white as a
There was a little gray in the sky now; so I stepped into the woods, and
There was another clan of aristocracy around there--five or six families
There were no horses to be procured, and I must return by the lake; but
There's a hand that was the hand of a hog; but it ain't so no more; it's
These feelings dictated my answer to my father.  I expressed a wish to
These were my first reflections, but I soon learned that Mr. Kirwin had
These were wild and miserable thoughts, but I cannot describe to you
They all laughed, and Bob says:
They got him out and emptied him; Alas it was too late; His spirit was
They had pictures hung on the walls--mainly Washingtons and Lafayettes,
They know our infantine dispositions, which, however they may
They might even hate each other; the creature who already lived loathed
They said, no, 'twas a false alarm.
They stopped pulling.  It warn't but a mighty little ways to the raft
They talked it over, and they was going to rule me out, because they said
They went off and I got aboard the raft, feeling bad and low, because I
Thinks I, it won't do to paddle; first I know I'll run into the bank or a
This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
This answer startled me, but I presently recovered myself.  I was
This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
This letter revived in my memory what I had before forgotten, the
This morning, as I sat watching the wan countenance of my friend--his
This place was a tolerable long, steep hill or ridge about forty foot
This second night we run between seven and eight hours, with a current
This sound disturbed an old woman who was sleeping in a chair beside
This speech troubled me.  I had not despaired, nor had I yet conceived
This table had a cover made out of beautiful oilcloth, with a red and
This time he said the hair-ball was all right.  He said it would tell my
This was all there was of the family now, but there used to be more
This was including Miss Watson, as I took it.  I went out in the woods
This young girl kept a scrap-book when she was alive, and used to paste
Those were the last moments of my life during which I enjoyed the
Three years before, I was engaged in the same manner and had created a
Thus Elizabeth endeavoured to divert her thoughts and mine from all
Thus I returned home, and entering the house, presented myself to the
Thus are my hopes blasted by cowardice and indecision; I come back
Thus has a week passed away, while I have listened to the strangest
Thus situated, employed in the most detestable occupation, immersed in
Title: The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, Complete
To England, therefore, I was bound, and it was understood that my union
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
Tom but he must crawl to where Jim was, on his hands and knees, and play
Tom he made a sign to me--kind of a little noise with his mouth--and we
Tom poked about amongst the passages, and pretty soon ducked under a wall
Towards daybreak we tied up, and Jim was mighty particular about hiding
Turner.  He says:
Victor, and thrust your sword into his heart.  I will hover near and
Victor.  Answer me, I conjure you by our mutual happiness, with
Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
WE judged that three nights more would fetch us to Cairo, at the bottom
WE slept most all day, and started out at night, a little ways behind a
WE went tiptoeing along a path amongst the trees back towards the end of
WELL, I catched my breath and most fainted.  Shut up on a wreck with such
WELL, I got a good going-over in the morning from old Miss Watson on
WELL, pretty soon the old man was up and around again, and then he went
WELL, three or four months run along, and it was well into the winter
WILL BE WITH YOU ON YOUR WEDDING-NIGHT."  That, then, was the period
Walton!  Seek happiness in tranquillity and avoid ambition, even if it
Warm tears filled my eyes, which I hastily wiped away, that they might
Was there no injustice in this? Am I to be thought the only criminal,
Watson's Jim!  I bet I was glad to see him.  I says:
We are still surrounded by mountains of ice, still in imminent danger
We could a had pets enough if we'd wanted them.
We could hear her pounding along, but we didn't see her good till she was
We couldn't handle him, of course; he would a flung us into Illinois.  We
We didn't say a word for a good while.  There warn't anything to say.  We
We didn't touch an oar, and we didn't speak nor whisper, nor hardly even
We done it, and then peeped down the woods through the leaves.  Pretty
We fixed up a short forked stick to hang the old lantern on, because we
We got an old tin lantern, and a butcher-knife without any handle, and a
We had agreed to descend the Rhine in a boat from Strasbourg to
We had mountains on the Missouri shore and heavy timber on the Illinois
We had scarcely visited the various lakes of Cumberland and Westmorland
We left Edinburgh in a week, passing through Coupar, St. Andrew's, and
We left Oxford with regret and proceeded to Matlock, which was our next
We lived in that old cabin, and he always locked the door and put the key
We passed a considerable period at Oxford, rambling among its environs
We passed another town before daylight, and I was going out again; but it
We played robber now and then about a month, and then I resigned.  All
We put all the other things handy at the back of the cavern.  Pretty soon
We quitted London on the 27th of March and remained a few days at
We rummaged the clothes we'd got, and found eight dollars in silver sewed
We shot a water-fowl now and then that got up too early in the morning or
We skipped out and looked; but it warn't nothing but the flutter of a
We spread the blankets inside for a carpet, and eat our dinner in there.
We stayed a day at Mannheim, and on the fifth from our departure from
We talked it all over.  It wouldn't do to take to the shore; we couldn't
We travelled at the time of the vintage and heard the song of the
We went drifting down into a big bend, and the night clouded up and got
We went to a clump of bushes, and Tom made everybody swear to keep the
We were immured in ice and should probably never escape, but they
We were not allowed to converse for any length of time, for the
Well, I just felt sick.  But I says, I GOT to do it--I can't get OUT of
Well, I know what I's gwyne to do:  I's gwyne to set down here and listen
Well, I seemed to be in the open river again by and by, but I couldn't
Well, I warn't long making him understand I warn't dead.  I was ever so
Well, I went fooling along in the deep woods till I judged I warn't far
Well, I wuz dah all night.  Dey wuz somebody roun' all de time.  'Long
Well, WASN'T he mad?  He said he would show who was Huck Finn's boss.  So
Well, as I was saying about the parlor, there was beautiful curtains on
Well, before long here comes the wreck, dim and dusky, sliding along
Well, by this time I was most down to the foot of the island.  A little
Well, he sot up a bank, en say anybody dat put in a dollar would git fo'
Well, it being away in the night and stormy, and all so mysterious-like,
Well, last I pulled out some of my hair, and blooded the axe good, and
Well, o' course dat nigger want' to keep me out er de business, bekase he
Well, the days went along, and the river went down between its banks
Well, the second night a fog begun to come on, and we made for a towhead
Well, the woman fell to talking about how hard times was, and how poor
Well, there was a big outlandish parrot on each side of the clock, made
Well, when Tom and me got to the edge of the hilltop we looked away down
What then became of me?  I know not; I lost sensation, and chains and
When I got to camp I warn't feeling very brash, there warn't much sand in
When I got to it Jim was setting there with his head down between his
When I got to the three log doorsteps I heard them unlocking and
When I lit my candle and went up to my room that night there sat pap--his
When I quitted Geneva my first labour was to gain some clue by which I
When I recovered I found myself surrounded by the people of the inn;
When breakfast was ready we lolled on the grass and eat it smoking hot.
When he got along I was hard at it taking up a "trot" line.  He abused me
When he got out the new judge said he was a-going to make a man of him.
When he had got out on the shed he put his head in again, and cussed me
When him and the old lady come down in the morning all the family got up
When it was beginning to come on dark we poked our heads out of the
When it was dark I set by my camp fire smoking, and feeling pretty well
When it was daylight, here was the clear Ohio water inshore, sure enough,
When the first streak of day began to show we tied up to a towhead in a
When the lightning glared out we could see a big straight river ahead,
When we got up-stairs to his room he got me a coarse shirt and a
When we was three or four hundred yards down-stream we see the lantern
When you got to the table you couldn't go right to eating, but you had to
Whenever I got uncommon tired I played hookey, and the hiding I got next
While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
While we laid off after breakfast to sleep up, both of us being about
Whistler.  She warn't ever the same after that; she never complained, but
Why, there ain't no end to your airs--they say you're rich.  Hey?--how's
William, Justine, Clerval, Elizabeth, my father, and of the wretched
William, of Justine, and of Clerval.  Sometimes I entreated my
Windsor, rambling in its beautiful forest.  This was a new scene to us
YOU ON YOUR WEDDING-NIGHT," I should regard the threatened fate as
YOU don't know about me without you have read a book by the name of The
Yet one duty remained to me, the recollection of which finally
You have read this strange and terrific story, Margaret; and do you not
You know what I mean--I don't know the words to put it in.
You said it was the worst bad luck in the world to touch a snake-skin
You see, maybe you's got to be po' a long time fust, en so you might git
You start at the raft, and--"
You've been treated bad, and you made up your mind to cut.  Bless you,
a Sunday-school superintendent over the head with it--or any other man."
a bunch of willows, and there was the old man down the path a piece just
a chair, my eyes half open and my cheeks livid like those in death.  I
a chile doan' know enough to come in out'n de rain.  Doan' talk to me
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
a dead snake its mate always comes there and curls around it.  Jim told
a dozen of the sailors, who demanded admission into the cabin.  They
a dream, in a prison, stretched on a wretched bed, surrounded by
a fish as that by the pound in the market-house there; everybody buys
a gang as that!  But it warn't no time to be sentimentering.  We'd GOT to
a gloom over us.  But it is this gloom which appears to have taken so
a good fire there on a high and dry spot.
a good many miles wide, but on the Missouri side it was the same old
a good rest and a smoke out of my pipe, looking away into the sky; not a
a hundredfold; for that one creature's sake I would make peace with the
a limb right over him, and Jim stirred a little, but he didn't wake.
a little for being so slow; but I told him I fell in the river, and that
a little town two days she could tell me all I wanted to know; so I
a little under water; so up-bound boats didn't always run the channel,
a little woodpile, and kep' his horse before him to stop the bullets; but
a little.  I put down the needle and thread, and let on to be interested
a long down-stream slant; and when I judged I was out of eye-reach I laid
a man begin to come aft wid de lantern, I see it warn't no use fer to
a mile doing it.  I crept up the dead water under the bank, and hadn't no
a mile out you'll come to the tavern; tell 'em to dart you out to Jim
a month after my release, I repaired to a criminal judge in the town
a pathetic incident or endeavours to move the passions of pity or love,
a shot at it. I clipped along, and all of a sudden I bounded right on to
a slight sensation of alarm. As it was, I merely remarked that they
a solitude where nothing could for an instant call my attention from
a sound that a ghost makes when it wants to tell about something that's
a steamboat without any lights.  There warn't any signs of the bar at the
a thousand other miseries shall torment and destroy him.'
a truce was established between the present hour and the irresistible,
a watchman on dat wrack."
a white to make a body's flesh crawl--a tree-toad white, a fish-belly
a wood-flat, en his marster didn' know it; en I bought it off'n him en
a work, being hardly more than a rock whose high sides were continually
a-bothering about Moses, which was no kin to her, and no use to anybody,
a-comin'.  Mind I tell you, it's a-comin'."
a-floating down, stern first, about two mile, and saddle-baggsed on the
a-goin' over for to see de place.  Sometimes dey'd pull up at de sho' en
a-going to find out who it is that's here on the island with me; I'll
a-holt.  It clouded up en 'uz pooty dark for a little while.  So I clumb
a-horseback. The men took their guns along, so did Buck, and kept them
a-near it agin.  Them's the very words.  I says look at my hat--if you
a-rolling, and everything they're told to do they up and do it.  They
a-swelling yourself up like this.  I ain't the man to stand it--you hear?
abandoned, am an abortion, to be spurned at, and kicked, and trampled
abhorred myself.  But when I discovered that he, the author at once of
abhorred!  They were my brethren, my fellow beings, and I felt
abhorrence cannot equal that with which I regard myself.  I look on the
about Cairo, and wondered whether we would know it when we got to it.  I
about a thing that ain't none of her business?"
about her and her husband's matters.  But she broke off to say:
about her now she was gone; so I tried to sweat out a verse or two
about it, Jim."
about it, but after this always do whichever come handiest at the time.
about it.  Directly it begun to rain, and it rained like all fury, too,
about it; but mainly I wanted to put in the time.  I found plenty
about me and Tom Sawyer finding the six thousand dollars (only she got it
about sixty, the other two thirty or more--all of them fine and handsome
about somebody that was dead, and a whippowill and a dog crying about
about the end of July.  I packed up my chemical instruments and the
about the rats. You'd see one stick his nose out of a hole in the corner
about the time I had jabbering with that woman; and Jim said she was a
about two mile, and keep it burning till I come; then I manned my oars
about we reckoned the people left in a hurry, and warn't fixed so as to
about witches in the dark by the kitchen fire; but whenever one was
about, and gloomy in there amongst them.  There was freckled places on
above all, and the Tower famed in English history.
above the dome of Mont Blanc, render this scene of beauty still more
abreast of me I see there warn't but one man in it.  Think's I, maybe
absence, I have often wished to express to you but have never had the
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
accident might meanwhile occur to destroy him and put an end to my
accidents and didn't see nobody.  We got home all safe.
accidents might occur, the slightest of which would disclose a tale to
accordingly I told Clerval that I wished to make the tour of Scotland
accordingly put in for port.  It was a very dark night, as the moon had
account of being hungry, that you could paddle right up and put your hand
account of my clothes; but the widow she didn't scold, but only cleaned
account we shall be more attached to one another.  Our lives will not
accumulated woes and survive to add to the list of his dark crimes.  He
accustomed, at a creek about two miles below.  He walked on first,
acorns and berries afford me sufficient nourishment.  My companion will
across me.
across the waters with an arrowy swiftness and was soon lost amidst the
across yet.  Buck and his ma and all of them smoked cob pipes, except the
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
actuated by selfish and vicious motives, I asked you to undertake my
admirable being?  I have longed for a friend; I have sought one who
admiration, he loved with ardour:--
adored as belonging to brave men who encountered death for honour and
adorns her chosen dwelling-places.  We had arrived in England at the
advanced.  I looked towards its completion with a tremulous and eager
advantage about it--except for the other people; so at last I reckoned I
afeard; bekase I knowed ole missus en de widder wuz goin' to start to de
affectionate.  "I fear, my beloved girl," I said, "little happiness
affections, and his friendship was of that devoted and wondrous nature
affections, think you that any can replace those who are gone?
affords first opened upon me, when I felt the cheering warmth of summer
after my removal I was liberated from prison.
after that.
after the murder, and told about it, and was out with 'em on the
after the whole nation had forsaken his cause to join the standard of
after us!"
after.  We would sell the raft and get on a steamboat and go way up the
afterwards heard, were frightful; I called myself the murderer of
afterwards, neither.  I didn't do him no more mean tricks, and I wouldn't
afterwards.  He didn't ever have to tell anybody to mind their manners
again the frost came and made the paths of the sea secure.
again would he become the prey, of your accursed vengeance.  It is not
again.
again.  Before he was t'other side of the river I was out of the hole;
again.  He had got the dream fixed so strong in his head that he couldn't
again.  The widow rung a bell for supper, and you had to come to time.
again; and about the first thing we done was to bait one of the big hooks
against a tree, and stretched his legs out till one of them most touched
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
against the logs at the far end of the cabin behind the table, to keep
age rendered him extremely averse to delay.  For myself, there was one
age.  He had apparently been strangled, for there was no sign of any
aggravating me and I had soured on her a little.  I liked all that
agin when dey was gone.  But lawsy, how you did fool 'em, Huck!  Dat WUZ
agin.  Dey's two gals flyin' 'bout you in yo' life.  One uv 'em's light
ago I was talking with an old couple that lives next door in the log
agony of the torturing flames. The light of that conflagration will
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
ahead in the canoe, with the line to make fast, there warn't anything but
aid and conduct me in my work.  Let the cursed and hellish monster
ain' gwyne to resk no mo' money in stock.  De cow up 'n' died on my
ain't a-goin' to threaten nobody any more, Jim Turner.  Put UP that
ain't going to forgit you for dat, honey."
alive, and it didn't seem right that there warn't nobody to make some
all around, and his name blotted off of the list with blood and never
all around.
all at once I thought of a way, and so I offered them Miss Watson--they
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
all day amongst the cottonwood thicket, so as to be fresh for the work,
all down the walls, and cattle coming down to drink.  There was a little
all in good time, don't you fret about that.  Go 'long with you now, and
all my exertions to defiance.  Who can follow an animal which can
all my traps into my canoe again so as to have them out of sight, and I
all night at her friend's house, Miss What-you-may-call-her I disremember
all of a sudden and fetched the tub a rattling kick.  But it warn't good
all on, and struck out for the canoe.  I just expected there'd be
all over trembly and feverish to be so close to freedom.  Well, I can
all right; but I'd druther been bit with a snake than pap's whisky.
all smiled on our nuptial embarkation.
all that affection which a man feels, who in the decline of life,
all the expense of raising.  Yes, just as that man has got that son
all the time.
all."
alleging another engagement, that I might remain alone.  I now also
allowed me to be calculating and calm at periods when otherwise
almost concealed amongst the foliage of those lovely trees; and now
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
almost perpendicularly to the water, casting black and impenetrable
alone in a little boat, watching the clouds and listening to the
alone, and he rolled himself up in his blanket and wallowed in under the
alone.  "Do you," said I, "enjoy yourself, and let this be our
along and how the clouds, which sometimes obscure and sometimes rise
along the banks of the Tay, to Perth, where our friend expected us.
along to your uncle, Sarah Mary Williams George Elexander Peters, and if
along up the river, out of sight in the thick weather, though I could
along we was going to take to the canoe and break for the Illinois shore;
along well on to an hour, everything still as rocks and sound asleep.
along.  I says, all right, and was going to start for the raft; but just
although I was hardly conscious of its extreme profundity, until my ear
although the sun shone upon me, as upon the happy and gay of heart, I
always luck for me; because as soon as that rise begins here comes
always rich, and get sixty dollars a month, and THEY don't care a cent
always stay under water a minute; this time I reckon I stayed under a
am well satisfied that abhorrence and opprobrium should load my
ambition that would quit its native country, and an almost
ambition; but how am I sunk!  Oh!  My friend, if you had known me as I
amidst its enjoyments.  His feelings are forever on the stretch; and
ammunition, and a four-gallon jug of whisky, and an old book and two
amongst the Grangerfords either.  Why, that old man kep' up his end in a
amused with the journal of Clerval, who observed the scenery with an
an Injun, calculating to build a palace and sell it; but it warn't no
an affection for you, may increase your miseries tenfold by being
an hour it was deadly dull, and I was fidgety.  Miss Watson would say,
an impediment, and truly I rejoiced that thus I should be saved many
an obstacle to your wishes.  Ah! Victor, be assured that your
an unfavourable augury from my manner.
and Grangerfords used the same steamboat landing, which was about two
and I ain't a-going back there, anyways.  So, now, le's know all about
and I earnestly entreated her to retire, resolving not to join her
and I felt a kind of panic on seeing the pale yellow light of the moon
and I knowed the current had swung the canoe's head down-stream, and I
and I never see the wind blow so.  It was one of these regular summer
and I on the other, she come smashing straight through the raft.
and I only got half, and the short half, too.
and I remained idle, in a pause of consideration of whether I should
and I said these kinds of things was adventures; but he said he didn't
and I told him as soon as he got here two hours ago."
and I wandered many hours round the confines of the town, uncertain
and I'll do what I can to get you out of it.  Keep the river road all the
and Internet Wiretap
and Judge Thatcher, and Bessie Thatcher, and Jo Harper, and Tom Sawyer,
and a horseshoe, and some vials of medicine that didn't have no label on
and a more cheerful heart.
and abhorred voice, apparently close to my ear, addressed me in an
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
and admiration.  Sometimes I endeavoured to gain from Frankenstein the
and after that he polished off with a kind of a general cuss all round,
and ain't no trouble to do wrong, and the wages is just the same?  I was
and anxious to gain experience and instruction.  The difference of
and battles, and Highland Marys, and one called "Signing the
and be so cramped up and sivilized, as they called it.  Then the old man
and bolted it, and told the young men to come in with their guns, and
and by and by a flash showed us a black thing ahead, floating, and we
and by and by fetched up on the steep top of the hill the other side of
and by he says:
and by they fetched the niggers in and had prayers, and then everybody
and by, and she sent a man over to try to get hold of me; but pap drove
and by, maybe in a hour and a half, and she'd send him along with me.
and carried about with me my eternal hell; yet still a spirit of good
and caused a pleasant motion among the trees as we approached the
and clumb up as easy as I could, not to make any noise, and got down the
and coffee-pot and frying-pan, and sugar and tin cups, and the nigger was
and commence your labours; I shall watch their progress with
and conceived an affection for some of the inhabitants when the period
and consider of what had been said, that I would not lead them farther
and cried out in agony, "Oh! Take him away!  I cannot see him; for
and dared not break, or if I did, what manifold miseries might not
and desert heaths; and he now came to mark my progress and claim the
and destroyed as a beast of prey.  But I perceive your thoughts; you do
and directly I judged I'd got into a nest of towheads, for I had little
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
and doing very satisfactory.  She said she warn't ashamed of me.
and endeavouring to identify every spot which might relate to the most
and endless sorrow, when she should find her lover so barbarously
and ends it is different; things get mixed up, and the juice kind of
and every other place in the neighbourhood of man, as soon as I shall
and feel, thou wouldst not desire against me a vengeance greater than
and fetch your hand up over your head as awkward as you can, and miss
and fishing, and no books nor study.  Two months or more run along, and
and foot, and two men standing over him, and one of them had a dim
and get things all muddled up?"
and give Jim up, would you felt better than what you do now?  No, says I,
and give him a rest, the law up and goes for him.  And they call THAT
and glory; I have lost my friend.  But I will endeavour to detail these
and got into my skiff and bailed her out, and then pulled up shore in the
and got three candles, and Tom laid five cents on the table for pay.
and grand, but as good as she could be when she warn't stirred up; but
and hardly able to hold the rudder, when suddenly I saw a line of high
and hatred, it did not endure the violence of the change without
and have ranged through their immense recesses, consumed by a burning
and have the same defects.  This being you must create."
and he hoped that change of scene and varied amusement would, before my
and he said it over again, and they laughed again; then they waked up
and he warn't ever loud.  He was as kind as he could be--you could feel
and he was around again.  I made up my mind I wouldn't ever take a-holt
and heard the rustling of the leaves and the warbling of the birds, and
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
and high, rocky bluffs on both sides.  By and by says I, "Hel-LO, Jim,
and his cheeks flushed with momentary vigour.  Turning towards the men,
and his old Aunt Polly, and Sid and Mary, and plenty more.  Everybody was
and his own elevated and gentle manners have created.  I wish to soothe
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and hung his hat on a limb to show who done it.  And next time Jim told
and if it is well founded, I conjure you to avow it.  Reserve on such a
and if yet, in some mode unknown to me, thou hadst not ceased to think
and in a lonesome place he hears a horse a-coming behind him, and sees
and instead of injury I would bestow every benefit upon him with tears
and it always looks pretty on a summer morning--so I was having a good
and it was a cool, comfortable place.  Nothing couldn't be better.  And
and it was well a boat didn't come, for we hadn't ever thought to put the
and it wouldn't pass nohow, even if the brass didn't show, because it was
and keep off the bad luck, but Miss Watson was in ahead of me, and
and kept on chasing me up.  Once when I turned short and dodged under his
and kill the people and take their watches and money."
and knees.  We went about two hundred yards, and then the cave opened up.
and knotted there in front of a comb like a chair-back, and she was
and laid down behind a log on the bank in a little open place.  Where the
and laid in the gutter all night, and he was a sight to look at.  A body
and left it in the seat at church between two other books, and would I
and listened, but my breath come so hard I couldn't hear nothing else.  I
and listens; pretty soon I hears it again.  I hopped up, and went and
and look around me with a free and lofty spirit, but the iron had eaten
and lose him.  I would reconcile him to life, but he repulses the idea.
and magnificent, which formed a world, whose existence depended on the
and majestic scenes, but my eyes were fixed and unobserving.  I could
and minutes that there warn't a sound, and we all there so close
and miserable as I was.  The tranquillity which I now enjoyed did not
and misery, and soon the bolt  will fall which must ravish from you
and my endeavours for contentment.  I have one secret, Elizabeth, a
and no boards.  Well, next I took an old sack and put a lot of big rocks
and nobody ever comes there.  And then I can paddle over to town nights,
and nobody ever denied that she was of the first aristocracy in our town;
and now he instantly resumed his former benevolence.  He rose and
and on the watch-out.
and outside of the shadows it made it most as light as day.  I poked
and outside was the old regular Muddy!  So it was all up with Cairo.
and overcome.  I pitied Frankenstein; my pity amounted to horror; I
and pap he always said it, too, though he warn't no more quality than a
and peppered away at him, and he peppered away at them.  Him and his
and perhaps also she thought of the dreadful secret which I had
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
and persuasion, and when I again cast my eyes on the lifeless form of
and pitched around and yelled; but every time he come to himself he went
and populous towns occupy the scene.
and provide food, for we shall soon enter upon a journey where your
and puts his hands together and says:
and quenched in infinite wretchedness.  Sometimes he commanded his
and roast a piece of it.  I done it, and he eat it and said it would help
and rode him all over the State, and then set him under the trees again,
and rubbed it, and said he would manage so the hair-ball would think it
and run round and round the cabin, hollering "Take him off! take him off!
and sailed with a fair wind from the Irish shores.  It was midnight.  I
and satisfy my vengeance in his death.  And do I dare to ask of you to
and say we wouldn't borrow them any more--then he reckoned it wouldn't be
and say, "Hm!  What you know 'bout witches?" and that nigger was corked
and scorched me more and more.  I tried to make out to myself that I
and see if there's a fish on the lines for breakfast.  I'll be along in a
and set my teeth in.  It was "baker's bread"--what the quality eat; none
and shady in the deep woods, even if the sun was blazing outside.  We
and shaking down the stabboard side, and slow work it was, too--seemed a
and she sewed there a good deal and read her Bible there mostly.
and she suffered the same charge; she died for it; and I am the cause
and shoved for the light.  As I got down towards it three or four more
and showed the white chalk, or whatever it was, underneath.
and slept like dead people.
and slink around and pick up things I want. Jackson's Island's the place.
and so I wanted to be handy with it and rattle it off like I was used to
and so kind of low-down and ornery.
and so was his family.  He was well born, as the saying is, and that's
and some nails, and a fishline as thick as my little finger with some
and some of them catched a bird, and his old granny said his father would
and started towards where I was there in the dark, and motioned Bill to
and stood around the stile a while, and then went on around the garden
and stretch my fists out against Jim, and says:
and surrounded me, when an ill-looking man approaching tapped me on the
and sweat, and feel all cramped up.  Well, then, the old thing commenced
and talked, and I eat and talked.  The young women had quilts around
and tastes, entirely suited to one another.  But so blind is the
and that thought only had to me the reality of life.
and the Foundation web page at http://www.gutenberg.net/fundraising/pglaf.
and the elephants, but as for me I think different.  It had all the marks
and the lightning begun to flicker out from under his eyebrows, you
and the money would last us as far as we wanted to go in the free States.
and the remembrancers.  For an instant I dared to shake off my chains
and the voice struck me as one that I had heard during my sufferings.
and the widow from trying to follow me, it would be a certainer thing
and then I couldn't come for him no more.  I begged, and told him I was
and then I was pretty willing to let her clatter right along.  She told
and then cussed them all over again to make sure he hadn't skipped any,
and there we stopped.  Tom says:
and they would never find us without dogs.  And, besides, he said them
and told him that I had an accusation to make, that I knew the
and turned it over in my mind a long time, but I couldn't see no
and two more reaching up towards the moon--and the idea was to see which
and unhallowed wretch who would create such another as I have been.  I
and unmolested, hardly thanked for the pittance of food and clothes
and up comes my spirits.  I went tearing after it, listening sharp to
and up the ridge and into the cavern.  There Jim laid, sound asleep on
and was afeared maybe I was looking it, too.  I wished the woman would
and was free and satisfied.  But Tom Sawyer he hunted me up and said he
and was hunting around for some birds when I see a wild pig; hogs soon
and was led up to the coffin.  How can I describe my sensations on
and watch a camp fire--no, sir, she'd fetch a dog.  Well, then, I said,
and watchful, while my right hand grasped a pistol which was hidden in
and went for the shore, and I laid into my work and went a-booming down
and when a chap had pulled a skiff out most to it they'd raise up and
and when we went back to the raft about dark the canoe was gone!
and which I had contemplated but the day before in the company of her
and white slim ankles crossed about with black tape, and very wee black
and wisdom; nor do I know where this thirst for vengeance may end.
and with a full heart thanked my guiding spirit for conducting me in
and yet cherished a desire of revenge against me, it would be better
and you are to give an account of the death of a gentleman who was
and you could see every little chimbly-guy clean and clear, and a chair
and--"
angel's arm bared to drive me from all hope.  Yet I would die to make
angelic nature and celestial mechanism.  But I felt that I had no right
angry countenances of his companions.  "Why do you answer me so
anguish, and every word that I spoke in allusion to it caused my lips
animal, might refuse to comply with a compact made before her creation.
animating epoch of English history.  Our little voyages of discovery
another fellow and told him, and laughed, but he didn't laugh; he ripped
another idea:  I judged I'd hide her good, and then, 'stead of taking to
another one, and go ahead. She warn't particular; she could write about
another trial to get me away from him and give me to the widow for my
answer me dat."
answered no question, scarcely did I speak.  I felt as if I were placed
any Shepherdson about him."  Then the old man said he hoped I wouldn't
any care or bitter recollection.  I often refused to accompany him,
any encounter with my fellow creatures.  At one time the moon, which
any of them's floating around after me I'll give them a show.  I changed
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
anybody around, the way pap would do, for that might set people after us.
anybody in town would take it in a minute, let alone a hair-ball.  Well,
anybody that belonged to the band told the secrets, he must have his
anybody with you, let him keep back--if he shows himself he'll be shot.
anybody with you?"
anybody, and I said I would.  Then she said she'd forgot her Testament,
anyone, but sat motionless, bewildered by the multitude of miseries
anything but my dead carcass. They'll soon get tired of that, and won't
anything for me, but Buck's was on the jump most of the time.
anything to make you more comfortable?"
anything you choose to give her to write about just so it was sadful.
anyway.  Bob's been carved up some with a bowie, and Tom's been hurt once
anywhere.  I says:
anywheres.  Where would I go to?"
apart; she don't clap them together, the way you did when you catched the
apartment was opened and Mr. Kirwin entered.  His countenance expressed
appear, if the ministers of vengeance should conduct him to you, swear
appear."
appearance of my father was to me like that of my good angel, and I
appearance, but instead of offering me any assistance, whispered
appearance.  I shut up, as well as I could, in my own heart the anxiety
appearance; I have seen this lake agitated by a tempest, when the wind
appeared to be a handsome young man, about five and twenty years of
appears!"
appetite, which had become ravenous, with an oaten cake, when I saw a
approach of death.  I dare not ask you to do what I think right, for I
approach us with offers to donate.
archangel who aspired to omnipotence, I am chained in an eternal hell.
are anywheres where it won't do for you to scratch, why you will itch all
are covered with vines, and its cottages are scattered thickly in the
are highwaymen.  We stop stages and carriages on the road, with masks on,
are insurmountable barriers to our union.  Yet mine shall not be the
are more majestic and strange, but there is a charm in the banks of
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
are the children of a forced solitude that I abhor, and my virtues will
are virtuous and immaculate beings! I, the miserable and the
are younger; yet I do not suppose, possessed as you are of a competent
arguments which he had employed.  I thought of the promise of virtues
arm he made a grab and got me by the jacket between my shoulders, and I
arms and relaxed form flung by the murderer on its bridal bier.  Could
arose; the sea roared; and, as with the mighty shock of an earthquake,
around every which way and yelling about snakes.  He said they was
around for the watchman, a-wondering whereabouts he slept; and by and by
around the corner here to roust out my engineer."
around there and give Jim anything they had, just for a sight of that
around, a little scared.  Then I remembered.  The river looked miles and
around, this way and that and t'other, but it was going straight ahead
arranged that Clerval should join me at Strasbourg.  This interfered
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
arrival of my father.  I stretched out my hand to him and cried, "Are
arrived.  Your threats cannot move me to do an act of wickedness; but
as I felt pride.  Justine, poor unhappy Justine, was as innocent as I,
as I proceeded in my labour, it became every day more horrible and
as Perth, where he resided.  Clerval eagerly desired to accept this
as a man will not revolt from the execution of those functions on this
as an occurrence which no accident could possibly prevent.
as he said this I could no longer suppress the rage that burned within
as much as possible, that I might not debar him from the pleasures
as not that nigger's hiding over there; anyway, says I, it's worth the
as on man and will ripen our food.  The picture I present to you is
as was in my power, his happiness and well-being.
as we grew older. But as brother and sister often entertain a
asked me what my name was, but before I could tell him he started to tell
asking.  He said it was all done by enchantment.  He said there was
assassin of those most innocent victims; they died by my machinations.
assertion; when I thus accused myself, he sometimes seemed to desire an
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
assurances of their welfare and endeavoured, by dwelling on these
assured, a shout of tumultuous joy broke from them, loud and
astonishment was exhibited in my countenance, for Mr. Kirwin hastened
at Ingolstadt; and I confess to you, my friend, that when I saw you
at all--that night, nor the next, nor the next.
at de las'.  But you is all right.  You gwyne to have considable trouble
at his face--it's too gashly."
at it, because it was about the only way to put in the time.  But this
at most a year, was the period contemplated.  One paternal kind
at once satisfy and extinguish his malice.  The prospect did not move
at some distance.
at the woodpile, and I knowed why I was going to leave that.  I fetched
atmosphere and permitted to return to my native country.  I did not
attempt to destroy them.
attempted again to speak but was unable; he pressed my hand feebly, and
attempting to find a plot in it will be shot.
attendants to assist me in the destruction of the fiend by whom I was
attention because they included a greater proportion of happiness or
attracted even to the most repulsive among them, as to creatures of an
audible whisper, "I am satisfied, miserable wretch!  You have
authority for the apprehension of the murderer.  The magistrate
await their destiny; but you, Clerval, my friend, my benefactor--"
awakened to reason, at the same time awakened to revenge.  As the
away and didn't know it was sawed, you wouldn't never notice it; and
away any time amongst them Shepherdsons, becuz they don't breed any of
away from his lips.
away from us, and if my building the fire never fooled them it warn't no
away many blooming children, the only hopes of their doting parents;
away when I want them to help me tow the raft ashore, and I can't do it
away, I don't know where, but it didn't go to the river.  The meal sifted
away, boy--keep to looard.  Confound it, I just expect the wind has
away.  But when he did get the thing straightened around he looked at me
awful scream and I was up.  There was pap looking wild, and skipping
awful still and grand.  We went down the hill and found Jo Harper and Ben
awluz 'spected dat rattlesnake-skin warn't done wid its work."
back a stroke.  But she didn't come.  I was in such a hurry I hadn't
back against the door, and said he would rest a minute and then kill me.
back and set down on the bow of the skiff to rest.  I thought it all
back her silver snuffbox that was stole?  Why can't Miss Watson fat up?
back him up and keep him to his work, and so he gets beat.  Then I
back, but on his face.  So I knowed, then, that this warn't pap, but a
balanced with it, and I therefore, with a contented and even cheerful
banished from my mind every thought that could lead to a different
bank.  But I warn't comfortable long, because I happened to think of
bark; so I knowed the river had begun to rise.  I reckoned I would have
barked both shins, and the rest of his speech was all the hottest kind of
barking at me, and I knowed better than to move another peg.
basket that had apples and oranges and peaches and grapes piled up in it,
be afterwards modified, are never eradicated; and they can judge
be all right."
be any better off then than what he was before, seeing I was so ignorant,
be attached, may, in spite of himself, be contemplated with suspicion.
be children, and a race of devils would be propagated upon the earth
be happy, but they will be harmless and free from the misery I now
be of the same nature as myself and will be content with the same
be only the apparently innocent one of distinguishing yourself in
be pleased with this explanation; and in a probability of this being
be rich bymeby."
be the impression conveyed to you by what appears to be the purport of
be the prey of feelings unsatisfied, yet unquenched.  He is dead who
beaming with beauty, has decayed, but your spirit still visits and
beat out.  Let's look around."
beaten upon by the waves.  The soil was barren, scarcely affording
beauty of the scene, sometimes on one side of the lake, where we saw
became calmer, if it may be called calmness when the violence of rage
because I begun to get it through my head that he WAS most free--and who
because crabapples ain't ever good, and the p'simmons wouldn't be ripe
because he judged it was all up with HIM anyway it could be fixed; for if
because he'd be a free man the minute he seen it, but if he missed it
because he'll want to know the news.  Tell him I'll have his niece all
because maybe it wouldn't know the difference.  Jim smelt it and bit it
because most of the time they couldn't a treed me because I didn't
because my creator, do I swear inextinguishable hatred.  Have a care; I
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
because pretty soon I would be passing the ferry landing, and people
because she had laid out a lot more of these pictures to do, and a body
because the farm didn't belong to us, and started up the river, deck
because the island was only three miles long and a quarter of a mile
because they might see the smoke.  So I set there and watched the
become a thing of whose existence everyone will be ignorant.  My vices
become to me a shadow, and that happiness and affection are turned into
becomes much more picturesque.  The river descends rapidly and winds
bed pulled on me pretty tight mostly, but before the cold weather I used
bed, but the exertion was too great for him; he fell back and fainted.
been a king, but they took and shut him up in jail, and some say he died
been a man that had always been misunderstood before, and the judge said
been drowned and was thrown on shore by the waves, but on examination
been her care which provided me a companion in Clerval--and yet a man
been so miserable as I was; so frightful an event is single in the
been took out of the fourth stomach of an ox, and he used to do magic
beeswax and buttons and thread and all such truck in it, and a hatchet
before I departed, there was a task to perform, on which I shuddered to
before I get done with you.  You're educated, too, they say--can read and
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
before me.  I gasped for breath, and throwing myself on the body, I
before regarded my promise with a gloomy despair as a thing that, with
before yesterday, and he asked me where Moses was when the candle went
before, but I reckoned I'd go now to spite pap.  That law trial was a
before, why did I not sink into forgetfulness and rest?  Death snatches
before; dark as sin again in a second, and now you'd hear the thunder let
before?  We'll keep them till they're ransomed to death; and a bothersome
began to collect the materials necessary for my new creation, and this
beginning of October, and it was now February.  We accordingly
beginning to descend; the clouds swept across it swifter than the
begun to work he most always went for the govment, this time he says:
behave awhile if I could.  Then Miss Watson she took me in the closet and
behave?"  Then she told me all about the bad place, and I said I wished I
beheld my enemy at no more than a mile distant, my heart bounded within
behind it to wait for him to stir.  And how slow and still the time did
behind it.  It was beautiful to hear that clock tick; and sometimes when
behind the stupendous mountains of Jura.
beholding it?  I feel yet parched with horror, nor can I reflect on
being gone, you see, yet finding a power of fault with me for doing a
being of whose dispositions I was alike ignorant; she might become ten
being where I was, and liked it--all but the cowhide part.
being.  Think not, Walton, that in the last moments of my existence I
believe he could go any further--so scared he hadn't hardly any strength
believe that I am the same creature whose thoughts were once filled
beloved, awake!'
below, and been fooling along ever since, trying to get people to do
below, as hard as I could go.  I landed, and slopped through the timber
belted small under the armpits, with bulges like a cabbage in the middle
ben gone away?"
bend stern first.  First I didn't know where I was; I thought I was
benevolent man with calm and mild manners.  He looked upon me, however,
benumbed by want and squalid poverty.  As it was, I lived ungazed at
besides, I could not bring myself to disclose a secret which would fill
besides, this was the back of the cabin, and it warn't likely anybody
best way would be for us to pick out two or three things from the list
bestow and that she whose resemblance I contemplated would, in
bet I'll take some o' these frills out o' you before I'm done with you.
bet you--and cost five cents apiece, solid cash.  Steamboat captains is
better put 'em on, but I'd ruther not, it's so warm.  Are you all ready?
between hills, not high, but steep, and of beautiful forms.  We saw
between me and my enemy, and I was left drifting on a scattered piece
between my shoulders.  Seemed like I'd die if I couldn't scratch.  Well,
between their knees or stood them handy against the wall.  The
between two barn doors for a coffin, and buried him so, so they say, but
between us; we could a touched him, nearly.  Well, likely it was minutes
between, and some that I couldn't see I knowed was there because I'd hear
big bend on the Illinois side, and hacked off cottonwood branches with
big family Bible full of pictures.  One was Pilgrim's Progress, about a
big lumber-raft was about a mile up stream, coming along down, with a
big scar on the hillside, and went ashore.
birds, chile."
birthday come they hung flowers on it.  Other times it was hid with a
bitter and loathing despair, in what should I seek for sympathy?  I am
bitter circumstances to you, my dear sister; and while I am wafted
bitterly.
bitterly.  Ever since my recovery from the fever I had been in the
black woods, high and inaccessible.  This part of the Rhine, indeed,
blackness overcast the approaching sunshine.  At these moments I took
blankets, and the skillet and the coffee-pot.  I took fish-lines and
blast me by his presence, I might, with unfailing aim, put an end to
blasted in these hopes, yet another may succeed."
blim-blammin' all de time?  No--'deed he wouldn't.  A wise man 'ud take
blowed it to us.  Your pap's got the small-pox, and you know it precious
blows over a little, for people thinks now that he killed his boy and
blue Mediterranean appeared, and by a strange chance, I saw the fiend
blue spread-eagle painted on it, and a painted border all around.  It
board for me.  Good-bye, boy; you do as Mr. Parker told you, and you'll
boat and see if they could borrow another gun.  They'll go over after
boat we can put ALL of 'em in a bad fix--for the sheriff 'll get 'em.
boats; nets were cast, but in vain.  After passing several hours, we
body gwyne to hit um wid a rock?  How could a body do it in de night?  En
body into her house; it was not cold.  They put it into a bed and
body's hair raise, and down he went in the dirt, and rolled there, and
body's mouth water; but maybe next day Miss Watson would take hold and
books?  Do you want to go to doing different from what's in the books,
boom--boom--boom--twelve licks; and all still again--stiller than ever.
boot-heel made with big nails, to keep off the devil.
born and rich and grand as the tribe of Grangerfords.  The Shepherdsons
borne down as you are by the cruellest misfortunes, you may stifle,
borrow something worth having out of the captain's stateroom.  Seegars, I
borrowed three dollars from Judge Thatcher, and pap took it and got
boss of it; it all belonged to me, so to say, and I wanted to know all
both knowed well enough it was some more work of the rattlesnake-skin; so
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
bother no more about me.  All right; I can stop anywhere I want to.
bothering over a book, and have old Miss Watson pecking at you all the
bothring about.
bound in honour to Elizabeth, this struggle may occasion the poignant
boxes of seegars.  We hadn't ever been this rich before in neither of our
boy."
bran-new Barlow knife worth two bits in any store, and a lot of tallow
branches and dirt.  So she'd had a rough time.
branches to get in; and when I made fast nobody could a seen the canoe
breakfast.  Well, I was dozing off again when I thinks I hears a deep
breaking. My new clothes was all greased up and clayey, and I was
breast.  I took it; it was a portrait of a most lovely woman.  In spite
breathe.  I was too scared.  And, besides, a body COULDN'T breathe and
breathe.  We went gliding swift along, dead silent, past the tip of the
breeze blows fairly, and the watch on deck scarcely stir.  Again there
bricked on the bottom, and the bricks was kept clean and red by pouring
bridge all ready to jump off, with her hair all down her back, and
bright sun seldom failed to restore me to some degree of composure, and
broad day; so I made Jim lay down in the canoe and cover up with the
broke bekase you wuz los', en I didn' k'yer no' mo' what become er me en
broke it, it made me feel like a person had cut one of my breaths in two
broke off of it, but, barring that, it was a good enough leg, though it
broken-down tree you could see rabbits and snakes and such things; and
brotherly love, and such-like tiresomeness; but everybody said it was a
brought along a hank of yarn which she wanted me to help her with.  I
brought before the court that decides on life and death.  The grand
brought me thither and shall seek the most northern extremity of the
brought to me a greater conviction of the truth of his narrative than
browsing down the creek that leads out of it to find the robbers that
bucket and gourd; I took a dipper and a tin cup, and my old saw and two
buckle to your paddle, and let's get along."
built, and watched it all night for Jim to come.  Anyways, they stayed
burning thirst, a prelude to my other sufferings.  I looked on the
burning within my heart could have enabled me to support.  Immense and
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
but I could tell where they was by the whisky they'd been having.  I was
but I feel myself justified in desiring the death of my adversary.
but I might come to be a murderer myself yet, and then how would I like
but I reckon that was sort of piling it on, maybe.
but Miss Hooker she made a grab and got aboard the wreck.  Well, about an
but a conversation that I had with my uncle previous to his departure
but a soft name for stealing, and no decent body would do it.  Jim said
but from their own merits; and wherever I am, the soothing voice
but he said that warn't nothing to some things he had said in his time.
but he soon felt that a prison cannot be the abode of cheerfulness.
but hunted easy water.
but if it be all true, if indeed I did not dream, I am sorry that I am
but if we minded our business and didn't talk back and aggravate them, we
but it is the custom of the Irish to hate villains." While this strange
but it warn't no use, conscience up and says, every time, "But you knowed
but it was all comfortable now.  I was glad the way it come out, too,
but one resource, and I devote myself, either in my life or death, to
but painstakingly, and with the trustworthy guidance and support of
but quick in the shade of the bank.  I made two mile and a half, and then
but the color come back when she found the man warn't hurt.
but uncocked my gun and went sneaking back on my tiptoes as fast as ever
but we--well, hang it, we don't want the small-pox, you see.  Look here,
but you will not be consulted as to your quarters, I promise you."
by Elizabeth.  Nothing is so painful to the human mind as a great and
by Mark Twain (Samuel Clemens)
by Mr. Mark Twain, and he told the truth, mainly.  There was things which
by and by they fall in love with you, and never want to go home any
by and get away, but a lot of dogs jumped out and went to howling and
by destroying all thou lovedst.  Alas!  He is cold, he cannot answer
by distributing it; or I brought with me some food that I had killed,
by found a good big cavern in the rock, most up to the top on the side
by her hair.  Everywhere I turn I see the same figure--her bloodless
by means of this drug only that I was enabled to gain the rest
by myself."
by reason and virtue.
by scattering dust on the place, which covered up the smoothness and the
by the big bell, with an old slouch hat hanging on the back of it, when
by the sensibility of his heart.  His soul overflowed with ardent
by the word `honour,' all hope of that love and happiness which
by these means gained a greater degree of tranquillity.  Indeed, as the
by, sure enough, I catched a glimpse of fire away through the trees.  I
call it a hat--but the lid raises up and the rest of it goes down till
called he swore positively that just before the fall of his companion,
called me a lot of other names, too, but she never meant no harm by it.
called me into being; and when I shall be no more, the very remembrance
called the turnips and stuff "julery," and we would go to the cave and
called to mind what Frankenstein had said of his powers of eloquence
calling me aside, thus addressed me,
calls itself a govment, and lets on to be a govment, and thinks it is a
calls me Sarah, some calls me Mary."
calm her mind.  But on the day that was to fulfil my wishes and my
came so far north and was astounded at the sight.  I quickly destroyed
camp fire in the middle, and a tall flag-pole at each end.  There was a
camp-meet'n' right arter breakfas' en be gone all day, en dey knows I
can do, and I demand it of you as a right which you must not refuse to
can help it."
can persuade me to preserve my life.  If I were engaged in any high
can take a hold of a prowling, thieving, infernal, white-shirted free
can't see no distance. It got to be very late and still, and then along
can't?  I'LL take it out of you.  Who told you you might meddle with such
candles, and a tin candlestick, and a gourd, and a tin cup, and a ratty
cannon-smoke and listened to the boom.  The river was a mile wide there,
cannot consent."
canoe fer to make fas' to de tow-head?"
canoe to go back in.  We warn't going to borrow it when there warn't
capable of unfolding.  I was nourished with high thoughts of honour and
captain and Jo Harper second captain of the Gang, and so started home.
carcass come to the top.
cards scattered around over the floor, and old whisky bottles, and a
care of collecting witnesses and arranging my defence.  I was spared
care will be born to replace those of whom we have been so cruelly
carried the sack about a hundred yards across the grass and through the
carry off most of their stuff.
carrying a part of the fishing tackle, and his companions followed him
cast a shadow, which was felt but not seen, around the head of the
cast off all feeling, subdued all anguish, to riot in the excess of my
castle which overhangs yon precipice; and that also on the island,
catch you fooling around that school again, you hear?  Your mother
caught a dark speck upon the dusky plain.  I strained my sight to
cause of the tumult.  "They shout," I said, "because they will soon
cause--the monster whom I had created, the miserable daemon whom I had
cause.  I was bewildered, in a cloud of wonder and horror.  The death
caused by this despair.
caused this misery, until he or I shall perish in mortal conflict.  For
caves of the glaciers and hide himself from pursuit among the ridges of
cents to de po', en laid low to see what wuz gwyne to come of it."
ceremony should take place in ten days, and thus put, as I imagined,
certainly take place.  We were affectionate playfellows during
chairs and some in their rooms, and it got to be pretty dull.  Buck and a
chance led me to the place of his concealment, or if he dared again to
chance.
chanst."
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
charged in, and made us drop everything and cut.  I didn't see no
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
cheeks; and she had an open letter in one hand with black sealing wax
chief article of maintenance.  The triumph of my enemy increased with
child, I wouldn't tell on you.  Tell me all about it now, that's a good
childhood, and, I believe, dear and valued friends to one another
childhood; but my general state of feeling was a torpor in which a
children, and if their master wouldn't sell them, they'd get an
chile.  Bofe un you claims it.  What does I do?  Does I shin aroun'
chilled by the northeast breeze that was then rising.  But it refreshed
chillen runnin' roun' de house, en it's diffunt.  HE as soon chop a chile
chip in--and by and by everybody's killed off, and there ain't no more
choice but to adapt my nature to an element which I had willingly
chosen.  The completion of my demoniacal design became an insatiable
clasp-knife, calling me the Angel of Death, and saying he would kill me,
clean hand now; shake it--don't be afeard."
clear morning, in the latter days of December, that I first saw the
clear, because there was a light behind him.  He got up and stretched his
clearing up again now.
clearly.  The idea of renewing my labours did not for one instant occur
close they can come without touching; sometimes the wheel bites off a
close, where the bread did.  When she'd got pretty well along down
close.  She aimed right for us.  Often they do that and try to see how
clothed my desires under a guise which excited no suspicion, while I
clothes as what he had; and he had a gold watch and chain, and a
clothes hanging against the wall.  There was something laying on the
clothes that ain't fitten for a hog. They call that govment!  A man can't
cloud in it.  The sky looks ever so deep when you lay down on your back
cloudless blue sky, I seemed to drink in a tranquillity to which I had
clumb out on to the porch-roof and slid down a stanchion and traded his
coffin of Henry."
cold blood, and my heart often sickened at the work of my hands.
cold shivers run over me. Then away out in the woods I heard that kind of
collect myself and then entered the chamber.  With trembling hand I
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
come all the way from Philadelphia, they said.  There was some books,
come back sence, and they ain't looking for him back till this thing
come booming down so lively she tore it out by the roots and away she
come near, said, "Alas!  The strength I relied on is gone; I feel that
come over my existence, and I only visited these people for the sake of
come to be killed, but Jim didn't want to.  He said it would fetch bad
come.  I crawfished as fast as I could about two yards, but the boat
comes a steamboat up the river.  We lit the lantern, and judged she would
comes of my being such a fool as to not remember that wherever you leave
comes of my not thinking.  Here was this nigger, which I had as good as
comfort and tranquillity.
comfortable, and took him along.  Pap always said, take a chicken when
comfortable.  Pretty soon she says,
coming after me; but I won't go.  Oh, they're here! don't touch me
coming all the time; but I got her hid; and then I out and looked around
coming to our town, instead of letting well alone--and so on and so on,
coming.  We was crossing the road.  Buck says:
coming."
commencement of my career, now serves only to plunge me lower in the
commencement of my journey the presence of my friend could in no way be
commission of his crimes, and no one can conjecture to what place he
committed the murder, and seeking a more secluded hiding-place, I
companion.  When these thoughts possessed me, I would not quit Henry
companions had been chosen by the other sailors to come in deputation
companions, the amiable Falkland, the insolent Goring, his queen, and
companions.  How can you, who long for the love and sympathy of man,
compassion.  I approached this tremendous being; I dared not again
complaints?  I swear to you, by the earth which I inhabit, and by you
completion of my promise and quickly availed myself of the letters of
comply.  After so long a period of an absorbing melancholy that
compose a female without again devoting several months to profound
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
concede."
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
conception of my miseries and situation and was then released from my
conclusion.
conduct; nor do I find it blamable.  In a fit of enthusiastic madness I
conducted, by the magistrate and several other persons, to the inn.  I
conductor in silence and was led to one of the best houses in the
confess that it is the devouring and only passion of my soul.  My rage
confess, my son, that I have always looked forward to your marriage
confided the fatal secret.  Yet, still, words like those I have
conflicting emotions rendered her mute as she bade me a tearful, silent
congenial to your own temper."
conjecture as to the cause of this, but yesterday an idea struck me,
conjecture that some fortunate chance had intervened to prevent the
conjectured that he must speedily be destroyed by the breaking of the
conjectured, by his longer voyage, he entreated me to bestow as much of
conquered and who know not what it is to turn their backs on the foe."
conscience got to stirring me up hotter than ever, until at last I says
conscious guilt.  Little did I then expect the calamity that was in a
consent from me.  You may render me the most miserable of men, but you
consequences of the affair.  I entered the room where the corpse lay
considerable a-doing it.  I fetched the pig in, and took him back nearly
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
considerable many frills since I been away.  I'll take you down a peg
considerable, because I didn't want to go back to the widow's any more
considerable, first on one leg and then on the other, holding first one
considerably.  The wind was high, and the waves continually threatened
consolation.
consolation.  Polluted by crimes and torn by the bitterest remorse,
consoles your unhappy friend.
constantly about me and was ever on the watch to prevent artifice, and
consumed, you sit among the ruins and lament the fall.  Hypocritical
consummate his crimes by my death.  Well, be it so; a deadly struggle
consummate the series of my being and accomplish that which must be
consummated; the miserable series of my being is wound to its close!
contemplate its progress?
contemplated the lovely scene of waters, woods, and mountains, obscured
content to suffer alone while my sufferings shall endure; when I die, I
continued he became more attentive and interested; I saw him sometimes
conversing with several persons in the island I had inhabited about the
conveyed the instruments out of the room, but I reflected that I ought
cooked a supper, and I had about made up my mind I would stay there all
copied or distributed:
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
cordwood floating down, and pieces of log rafts--sometimes a dozen logs
corrected and augmented them in many places, but principally in giving
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
cottage burnt, his lands laid waste, and he is turned adrift, homeless,
cottonwood thicket, and looked up and down and across; nothing in sight;
cottonwoods on it as thick as harrow-teeth.
could continue my journey.  My father's care and attentions were
could ensure tranquillity.  Mr. Kirwin came in and insisted that my
could fill my mind with the sights of heaven and earth; the voice of
could git my rights.
could kill her.  Everybody said:
could not help being struck by the strange coincidences that had taken
could see by what she had done what they had lost.  But I reckoned that
could see saw-logs go by in the daylight sometimes, but we let them go;
couldn't budge for most a half a minute it seemed to me--and then there
couldn't find no way.  There warn't a window to it big enough for a dog
couldn't look up yet.
couldn't make it out.  It was very curious, somehow.  I was going to
couldn't read, and she couldn't write, nuther, before she died.  None of
couldn't see no brass, and it wouldn't feel greasy no more, and so
couldn't start a face in that town that I didn't know.  Now this was
couldn't tell how many was in it.  It kept a-coming, and when it was
couldn't tell nothing about voices in a fog, for nothing don't look
countenance and tones and related the most horrible incidents with a
countenance expressed all those bad qualities which often characterize
countenance, agreed with my father that if my cousin would consent, the
country chiefly collected.  In other places human beings were seldom
country.  My journey had been my own suggestion, and Elizabeth
country."
country; again I saw the benevolent countenance of my father, heard the
couple of big wild-turkey-wing fans spread out behind those things.  On
couple of masks made out of black cloth; and all over the walls was the
courage to begin.
courage, therefore, I pressed on, and in two days arrived at a wretched
courage, you shrink away and are content to be handed down as men who
course I was where the current set in the closest to the shore--I knowed
course southwards.
course that boat started her engines again ten seconds after she stopped
course. Did you hear 'em shooting the cannon?"
cousin and playmate has too sincere a love for you not to be made
cousin or longed, with a devouring maladie du pays, to see once more
coward amongst them Shepherdsons--not a one.  And there ain't no cowards
cowardice or a prophetic feeling, I felt my heart sink within me.  But
craving; still I desired love and fellowship, and I was still spurned.
crawled back to get on the raft and found her gone he nearly died,
crawling up his legs; and then he would give a jump and scream, and say
create a companion for the first creature.  He showed unparalleled
created a rational creature and was bound towards him to assure, as far
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
creation.  I repassed, in my memory, my whole life--my quiet happiness
creator, would tear me to pieces and triumph; remember that, and tell
creature of another sex, but as hideous as myself; the gratification is
creatures lest when alone he should come to claim his companion.
creatures, then could I live to fulfil it.  But such is not my destiny;
cries rang in my ears.  My father, who was watching over me, perceiving
crime, the consciousness of which haunted me.  I was guiltless, but I
crimes; sufficient for me was the consciousness of them.  By the utmost
criminal charge, that I was again allowed to breathe the fresh
crossed me off. She says, "Take your hands away, Huckleberry; what a mess
crying into a handkerchief and had a dead bird laying on its back in her
cure him. He made me take off the rattles and tie them around his wrist,
curiosity; and I says to myself, Tom Sawyer wouldn't back out now, and so
current tell de raff come along.  Den I swum to de stern uv it en tuck
current was another man that would get us away from him.  The whoops was
current, and by and by he came a-swinging up shore in the easy water, and
custom of taking every night a small quantity of laudanum, for it was
cut bank with smoky ghosts of big trees on it, and the current throwed me
daemon more as a task enjoined by heaven, as the mechanical impulse of
daily lost ground in the pursuit, I now gained on him, so much so that
danger, or, if you will, the first mighty and terrific trial of your
dark I slid out from shore before moonrise and paddled over to the
dark we couldn't see no sign of them.  Pretty soon we struck the forward
dark we didn't notice the wreck till we was right on it; and so WE
darkish-paly complexion, not a sign of red in it anywheres; he was clean
darkness were the only objects that pressed upon me.  Sometimes,
dasn't scratch it; and then my ear begun to itch; and next my back, right
dat he 'uz gwyne to chop in two?"
dat puts dirt on de head er dey fren's en makes 'em ashamed."
dated at Paris; you are no longer at a formidable distance, and I may
dates with accuracy and never deviating into invective or exclamation.
daughters which was dead made her own self when she was only fifteen
day done me good and cheered me up.  So the longer I went to school the
day long with a harp and sing, forever and ever.  So I didn't think much
day will be hateful to you.  You are my creator, but I am your master;
day.  He pointed out to me the shifting colours of the landscape and
day.  No, sir; if a body's out hunting for cowards he don't want to fool
daylight and everybody went to bed, and I went to bed with Buck, and when
daylight, here comes a frame-house down, on the west side.  She was a
days at Rotterdam, whence we proceeded by sea to England.  It was on a
days he died in my arms.
daytimes and slept, and the bag of bread and meat I carried from home
daytimes, and balls at the house nights.  These people was mostly
de bills dat you's gwyne to git hung."
de dogs 'ud track me; ef I stole a skift to cross over, dey'd miss dat
de raf'.  En when I wake up en fine you back agin, all safe en soun', de
de smartes' dodge!  I tell you, chile, I'spec it save' ole Jim--ole Jim
de use er dat half a bill?--can't buy noth'n wid it.  En what use is a
de woods on de Illinois side.
dead companion, gave them a plentiful portion of food, and after an
dead to agony and remorse?  He," he continued, pointing to the corpse,
dead! you's back agin, 'live en soun', jis de same ole Huck--de same ole
dear son, I entreat you never to make such an assertion again."
dearest Henry, of life?  Two I have already destroyed; other victims
dearest companion, had fallen a victim to me and the monster of my
death his throat who never injured me or any other living thing.  I
death than desire to remain in a world which to me was replete with
death-warrant, be sure that you are yourself safe."
death.  Yet he enjoys one comfort, the offspring of solitude and
decanter was, and mixed a glass of bitters and handed it to him, and he
decent the widow was in all her ways; and so when I couldn't stand it no
deep dent in the bank that I knowed about; I had to part the willow
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
degree of malice that should reasonably make me distrust you?  May not
delay our departure, fearful that I could not sustain the fatigues of a
delight is in death and wretchedness?  Begone!  I am firm, and your
delight--his Elizabeth, his more than daughter, whom he doted on with
delight.  Let the day therefore be fixed; and on it I will consecrate
delights me to record your words and to dwell on the praise of which
delirium or death would have been my portion.
delirium; he believes that when in dreams he holds converse with his
deliver into your hands a female who will accompany you in your exile."
departed from land.
departure for Ingolstadt.  I remembered, shuddering, the mad enthusiasm
departure.  But he had promised to follow me wherever I might go, and
deprived."
depth of my sorrow?  All that I should express would be inadequate and
deranged, and he instantly changed the subject of our conversation and
describe those of Henry?  He felt as if he had been transported to
desolate.  My own strength is exhausted, and I must tell, in a few
desolation.  Frankenstein has daily declined in health; a feverish fire
despair to my heart; I grasped his throat to silence him, and in a
despair.  At these moments I often endeavoured to put an end to the
despair.  Evil thenceforth became my good.  Urged thus far, I had no
despondency and grief from my eyes.  Despair had indeed almost secured
destiny, she was melancholy, and a presentiment of evil pervaded her;
destroy me and tear me from the glimpse of happiness which promised
destroy my frame, the work of your own hands.  Shall I respect man when
destroy my hopes?"
destroy the creature on whose future existence he depended for
destroyed my miserable existence but that my vow was heard and that I
destroyer of my family, and that I required him to exert his whole
destroying his enemy, were now suspended by a mixture of curiosity and
destruction might indeed arrive a few months sooner, but if my torturer
detail it; yet the tale which I have recorded would be incomplete
determined to commence our journey towards the north at the expiration
determined to live, and I am satisfied."
devil.  Yet even that enemy of God and man had friends and associates
devotion and heroism, this elevation of mind had much the appearance of
devotion, but the furies possessed me as I concluded, and rage choked
devotion.  But now crime has degraded me beneath the meanest animal. No
dey, Huck?"
di'monds, and I told Tom Sawyer so.  He said there was loads of them
dialect; the extremest form of the backwoods Southwestern dialect; the
dialogue continued, I perceived the crowd rapidly increase.  Their
dictate of your own free choice.  Even now I weep to think that,
did I again lose sight of it except at the moments when for a short
did from this cold world fly By falling down a well.
did he must be sued; and if he done it again he must be killed.  And if
did think of it by the time the men was ready to start, and he believed
didn't go to bed early enough in the evening.  Take it all round, we
didn't have much.  I wuz de on'y one dat had much.  So I stuck out for
didn't hear nothing--I only THOUGHT I heard and seen as much as a
didn't see no rafts laying up; so we went along during three hours and
didn't wait.  We started through the woods on a run.  The woods warn't
didn't walk like a girl; and he said I must quit pulling up my gown to
didn't.
didst seek my extinction, that I might not cause greater wretchedness;
die, and he did.
die.  The task of his destruction was mine, but I have failed.  When
died away while he narrated his peaceful life among the cottagers, and
died in my heart, and I pursued my path towards the destruction of the
died, I viewed the expanse before me with anguish, when suddenly my eye
different from us?  You answer me that."
different nor interested.  They squeaked through underneath.  There was a
difficulty and was unable to speak.  The surgeon gave him a composing
difficulty the words so replete with anguish.  His fine and lovely eyes
dim glimpses of them on both sides of me--sometimes just a narrow channel
dim out of last week.
dimmed by the burning drops, until, giving way to the emotions that
dinner Friday we was laying around in the grass at the upper end of the
dinner, because that would bring bad luck.  The same if you shook the
direct the steel aright.
direction.  We were in the most imminent peril, but as we could only
directly banged away at a rat; but she missed him wide, and said "Ouch!"
dirt about five or six inches deep with a frame around it for to hold it
disappointment.  But I journey towards England, and I may there find
disappointment.  He might remain in Switzerland and wreak his vengeance
disastrous future imparted to me a kind of calm forgetfulness, of which
disbelief, was painted on his countenance.  When I had concluded my
discourage' en kill yo'sef 'f you didn' know by de sign dat you gwyne to
discover some trace by which I could send to your relations an account
discover what it could be and uttered a wild cry of ecstasy when I
disgrace marked on your brows.  Return as heroes who have fought and
dismay.  I was bound by a solemn promise which I had not yet fulfilled
disobey.  Yet when she died!  Nay, then I was not miserable.  I had
distance across--a half a mile--because the Missouri shore was just a
distant white Alps which always attend on the piny mountains of my
distinct idea presented itself to my mind, but my thoughts rambled to
distinct.  She was leaning over, with part of her upper deck above water,
distinguished a sledge and the distorted proportions of a well-known
distinguished natural philosophers.
distress when I saw your vessel riding at anchor and holding forth to
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
disturb you at this period, when so many misfortunes weigh upon you,
do any good to land yonder where the light is--it's only a wood-yard.
do as your mother told you."
do in town.  They had big brass dog-irons that could hold up a saw-log.
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
do say he warn't any too good to do it.  Oh, he's sly, I reckon.  If he
do--everybody was stumped, and set still.  I was most ready to cry; but
dodge around so, and swap places so quick and so much.
does:  The law takes a man worth six thousand dollars and up'ards, and
dog was stretched out on the grass in the sun sound asleep.  I went up to
dog--and he'll go in the river and bring out chips that you throw in.  Do
dog-tired.
dogs were as still as the humans, but they followed a little behind me.
dollars apiece.  Jim said we could take deck passage on a steamboat now,
dollars mo' at de en' er de year.  Well, all de niggers went in, but dey
dollars, but I tuck to specalat'n', en got busted out."
dollars.  Quite a fortune for you.  You had better let me invest it along
domes, embosomed among aged trees.
don't come back for a year he'll be all right.  You can't prove anything
don't get no show."
don't know now what the row was about in the first place."
don't think nothing of pulling a shot-tower up by the roots, and belting
don't, but ma she makes me.  Confound these ole britches!  I reckon I'd
donations.  To donate, please visit:
done it once, and bragged about it; and in less than two years he got
done it.  So there ain't no doubt but there is something in that thing
done that one if I'd a knowed it would make him feel that way.
done, but it requires my own.  Do not think that I shall be slow to
doomed him to waste in wretchedness!  He could not live under the
doomed to see again dear England and the dearer friends that inhabit
door was off its hinges.  I ordered it to be repaired, bought some
door was thick, solid oak slabs.  Pap was pretty careful not to leave a
door, but I hadn't ever heard anybody say it was any way to keep off bad
down again, and went to watching, same as before.  Jim said it made him
down at the bottom of Arkansaw, and my sister Mary Ann run off and got
down dah in de woods widout any dinner, en gittn' mos' drownded, too; dat
down in the bottom of the canoe and let her float.  I laid there, and had
down in the canoe and said I wouldn't bother no more.  I didn't want to
down in the middle and busted, like an old basket.
down it sunk, out of sight.  You could easy see that something had been
down on his knees, and put his ear against it and listened.  But it
down on hog-drivers and women in carts taking garden stuff to market, but
down stairs--where it's long stairs and they bounce a good deal, you
down the river, too.  That's why I come.  You git me that money
down the towhead.  That was all right as far as it went, but the towhead
down town, and everything was going wrong.  His lawyer said he reckoned
down! A kind of cold shiver went through me, and then I struck out for
down-hearted and scared I did wish I had some company.  Pretty soon a
down-stream, to keep from getting run over; but we wouldn't have to light
dozen houses there, and if they didn't happen to have them lit up, how
drag along.
dragged over the ground.  I did wish Tom Sawyer was there; I knowed he
dragged your captain to the shame of a defeat merely to prove
draught and ordered us to leave him undisturbed. In the meantime he
draw a breath while it thumped a hundred.
drawing a bead on a bird with his gun.  So he hadn't seen anything.
drawing a pistol from my bosom, fired; but he eluded me, leaped from
drawing to a close.  Soon, oh, very soon, will death extinguish these
dreaded to behold.  I feared to wander from the sight of my fellow
dreadful one; when revealed to you, it will chill your frame with
dreaming; and when things began to come back to me they seemed to come up
dreams of love and joy; but the apple was already eaten, and the
dressed in white linen from head to foot, like the old gentleman, and
drift of the current was towards the left-hand shore, which meant that I
drifting along down the river, trying to make up our minds whether to
drink deep of agony; let him feel the despair that now torments me."  I
drive, and if he'd a stayed where he was he'd a been a tolerable sick
drop crabapples and p'simmons.  We warn't feeling just right before that,
drop my business and come to him for the rubbing of an old tin lamp."
drop the watermelons, or the cantelopes, or the mushmelons, or what.  But
dropped and they couldn't find me.  That made me pretty uneasy again, but
dropped the blanket and hid my saw, and pretty soon pap come in.
drove his friend from his door with contumely? Why do you not execrate
drownded carcass and stop there.  So, says I, I'll keep a lookout, and if
drownded--you's back agin?  It's too good for true, honey, it's too
drunk and fell off of the shot-tower, and spread himself out so that he
drunk, and was around till after midnight with a couple of mighty
drunk, and went a-blowing around and cussing and whooping and carrying
dungeon.  It was morning, I remember, when I thus awoke to
dungeon.  Melancholy followed, but by degrees I gained a clear
dust.  All my speculations and hopes are as nothing, and like the
duties towards the beings of my own species had greater claims to my
dwelling here, and we delighted to trace its footsteps.  If these
dwelt in a cottage not far from mine; but I was overcome by the
earliest infancy; you studied together, and appeared, in dispositions
earnestly entreat, and I know you will comply."
earth there is no comfort which I am capable of receiving."
earth will have the power to interrupt my tranquillity.
earth?  She was there, lifeless and inanimate, thrown across the bed,
easier it got to be.  I was getting sort of used to the widow's ways,
easily be brought to free you from the criminal charge."
easily perceived the traces of cultivation.  I saw vessels near the
easy and looking like a soldier.  He had his gun across his pommel.  I
easy water about six hundred yards, and tucked myself in among some
eat. Well, then I happened to think how they always put quicksilver in
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
educate him as my companion and friend, I should not be so desolate in
effects.  From my infancy I was imbued with high hopes and a lofty
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
effort, he sank into silence.  About half an hour afterwards he
eight hund'd dollars.  I wisht I had de money, I wouldn' want no mo'."
either to hers or my father's happiness, my adversary's designs against
elasticity to my spirits.  But I am a blasted tree; the bolt has
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
electronic works
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
eloquence is forcible and touching; nor can I hear him, when he relates
else the bees would all weaken down and quit work and die.  Jim said bees
else we wouldn't be here on a towhead sixteen or seventeen mile below the
else's whoop, or else I was turned around.
eluded my grasp.  Suddenly the broad disk of the moon arose and shone
emotions of benevolence towards me, I should return them a hundred and
employed in cleaning and arranging my chemical apparatus.
employed.  Once commenced, it would quickly be achieved, and I might be
en buil' a biler-factry; en den he could shet DOWN de biler-factry when
en de man dat think he kin settle a 'spute 'bout a whole chile wid a half
en didn't I whoop, tell we got mix' up in de islands en one un us got
en t'other one is dark. One is rich en t'other is po'.  You's gwyne to
en taller for a dollar en ten cents."
end of the skylight, and clumb on to it; and the next step fetched us in
endeavour to let me taste the quiet and freedom from despair that this
endeavoured to alter the course of my thoughts.  He wished as much as
endeavoured to change my course but quickly found that if I again made
endeavoured to open it softly.  I trembled from head to foot; I felt a
endeavours to fill me with hope and talks as if life were a possession
endowed me with strength and composure; it moulded my feelings and
endure.  Memory brought madness with it, and when I thought of what had
endured wasting in impotent passions. For while I destroyed his hopes,
enemy.  But your direction was northwards.  You took me on board when
enfranchised from my miserable slavery, I might claim Elizabeth and
engages his attention, and which also he forsakes for other novelties.
enjoy the gentle breezes of evening or the prospect of the sun setting
enjoyment.
enjoyments was my sorrowful and dejected mind.  I tried to conceal this
enough for that.  But by and by along comes another one, and this time I
enough time seeing them hunt for my remainders if I only had a bite to
enough, and I clumb in and paddled her ashore.  Thinks I, the old man
enough--hadn't the spunk of a rabbit.  I see I was weakening; so I just
enter by night and hide himself in a vessel bound for the Black Sea.  I
entered a barn which had appeared to me to be empty.  A woman was
entered my soul; and I felt then that I should survive to exhibit what
entered, and their leader addressed me.  He told me that he and his
enterprise.  My feelings are profound, but I possessed a  coolness of
enthusiastic frenzy had blinded me to the horror of my employment; my
entirely bound up in the expectation of our union."
entirely extinct.  At length he opened his eyes; he breathed with
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.
entrance of the cemetery where William, Elizabeth, and my father
escape.
even human sympathies were not sufficient to satisfy his eager mind.
even this be a feint that will increase your triumph by affording a
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
evening she started over with her nigger woman in the horse-ferry to stay
event, congratulatory visits were received, and all wore a smiling
events; but when he was called upon to act officially in consequence,
ever done previous.  He said so his own self afterwards.  He had heard
ever think of that.  No, you FEEL like you are laying dead still on the
ever-watchful and nicer eye of Elizabeth.  She looked forward to our
every boy must have a family or somebody to kill, or else it wouldn't be
every creature, I could not help supposing that you might regret
every day for people to pick up?  Some folks think the nigger ain't far
every feature and gesture seemed instigated by the wildest rage of some
every hope of consolation, to live?  Oh, no!  The only joy that he can
every human creature, he did not wish to be present at the agonies and
every little while.  She said she had to have things handy to throw at
every pretence of delay and shrank from taking the first step in an
every skift dat went 'long wuz talkin' 'bout how yo' pap come over to de
every time he raised Cain he got jailed.  He was just suited--this kind
every time; and then I tied up a little lock of my hair with a thread to
everybody quit thinking the nigger done it?"
everything is on a lower scale, and the green hills want the crown of
everything sometimes.  But this one was a staving dream; tell me all
everything we had in the world was on our raft, and she was ready to be
everything.  So I went to him that night and told him pap was here again,
examine.  Good night, my sister.
excellence, the companions of our childhood always possess a certain
excitements to his vengeance, that they are not the creations of his
exclaimed, "Have my murderous machinations deprived you also, my
exclaimed, "Oh!  Stars and clouds and winds, ye are all about to mock
exclamations and agony, I did not rush among mankind and perish in the
executed the creation of a man.  Even now I cannot recollect without
execution of his menaces when suddenly I heard a shrill and dreadful
execution of his plan.  He was forever busy, and the only check to his
exert myself, and if it is in my power to seize the monster, be assured
exertion of mine, I shall need no other happiness.
existence I loathed, and it required unceasing attendance and vigilance
existence and events from which I am now excluded."
existing thing; do not deny me my request!"
expectation delayed fills them with fear, and I almost dread a mutiny
expectation of a reply.  But I was bewildered, perplexed, and
expectations is, in prospect, more terrible to me than my own death.
experience of man that what I conceived to be the best assistants to my
explanation of them, but their truth in part relieved the burden of my
explanation, and at others he appeared to consider it as the offspring
expressed in his speech, with an eye so full of lofty design and
expression of brutality was strongly marked in the visage of the
expressive of disgust and affright.
extent of his proposition.  He continued,
extinct.  I shall ascend my funeral pile triumphantly and exult in the
extricate me from seemingly insurmountable difficulties.  Sometimes,
eye of feeling and delight, than in listening to my reflections.  I, a
eyebrows, and the blackest kind of eyes, sunk so deep back that they
eyes half closed and his limbs hanging listlessly--I was roused by half
eyes on him steady.  It was getting gray daylight now.  Pretty soon he
eyes on it."
eyes will ever behold. Farewell, Frankenstein! If thou wert yet alive
eyes, and my skin was parched with the heat of fever.  In this state I
eyes.  The rain had ceased for a moment, and I saw the fish play in the
face and said, `Child, what is the meaning of this?  I do not intend to
faces expressed a mixture of curiosity and anger, which annoyed  and in
fade away; my ashes will be swept into the sea by the winds.  My spirit
fair and square for the others.  Well, nobody could think of anything to
fairy-land and enjoyed a happiness seldom tasted by man.  "I have
fallen on the body of a man, who was to all appearance dead.  Their
family, dead ones and all, and warn't going to let anything come between
family.  My haggard and wild appearance awoke intense alarm, but I
fancied rage of his destroyer.  I felt as if I had committed some great
fancy, but the beings themselves who visit him from the regions of a
far different from this desolate and appalling landscape.  Its hills
fare was, indeed, coarse, such as the peasants of the country ate, but
fare.  We shall make our bed of dried leaves; the sun will shine on us
farewell.
fast to a willow; then I took a bite to eat, and by and by laid down in
fate; the men, unsupported by ideas of glory and honour, can never
father and Ernest yet lived, but the former sunk under the tidings that
father saw this change with pleasure, and he turned his thoughts
father's consent to visit England for this purpose; but I clung to
father's, but it was agreed that Elizabeth and I should commence our
father," replied I; "some destiny of the most horrible kind hangs over
father.  I instantly wrote to Geneva; nearly two months have elapsed
fault of mine.  I played it as low down on them as I could.
fear of ignominy or death. I must pause here, for it requires all my
fear, from what you have yourself described to be his properties, that
feared that if, as was possible, the ice should dissipate and a free
fearful the combat which I momentarily expected would be to my wife,
feeble.  My tears flow; my mind is overshadowed by a cloud of
feel that burning hatred and ardent desire of revenge I once expressed;
feel thus, we shall assuredly be happy, however present events may cast
feel your blood congeal with horror, like that which even now curdles
feel.  Oh!  My creator, make me happy; let me feel gratitude towards
feeling and continued,
feeling of happiness.  We passed rapidly along; the sun was hot, but we
feelings had not found an imaginary gratification, the appearance of
feelings of affection, and they were requited by detestation and
feelings were altered to those of horror and hatred.  I tried to stifle
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
feet, and spreading our hands out to fend off the guys, for it was so
feet.  This idea made me shudder and recalled me to action.  I started
fell senseless on the ground.
fellow creatures; nay, a wish that such should prove the fact stole
fellow men; this barrier was sealed with the blood of William and
felt deeply the degradation of being obliged to answer a charge of
fence.  It was funny they hadn't come in, after standing around so.  I
ferryboat and go up there--"
ferryboat full of people floating along down.  I knowed what was the
ferryboat hunt, and right away after he up and left.  Before night they
ferryboat was floating with the current, and I allowed I'd have a chance
fetch them to the cave, and you're always as polite as pie to them; and
fetch witches whenever he wanted to just by saying something to it; but
feud.  But it's kind of slow, and takes a long time."
feverish; a darkness pressed around me; no one was near me who soothed
few drops that revived me, and vanish.
few moments to overwhelm me and extinguish in horror and despair all
fidgeted up and down the raft, abusing myself to myself, and Jim was
fidgeting up and down past me.  We neither of us could keep still.  Every
fidgety business to have to hold your hands still at such a time.  I
field on which that patriot fell.  For a moment my soul was elevated
fiend and gained accurate information.  A gigantic monster, they said,
fiend possessed the same advantages, but I found that, as before I had
fiend should openly attack me.  I carried pistols and a dagger
fiend whose unparalleled barbarity had desolated my heart and filled it
fiend!  If he whom you mourn still lived, still would he be the object,
fiend's grasp in my neck and could not free myself from it; groans and
fifteen mile around, and stay five or six days, and have such junketings
fifth night we passed St. Louis, and it was like the whole world lit up.
fight one day for half an hour against three Grangerfords, and come out
figure the most hideous and abhorred.  A grin was on the face of the
find anything to rhyme with it would just scratch it out and slap down
find it out or bust.  Well, I felt better right off.
find my happiness.  Some years ago, when the images which this world
find out it was all my fault, not if I could help it.
find out what was going on.  Jim liked that notion; but he said I must go
find somebody that does, and a good deed ain't ever forgot.  I never see
find that boat now--had to have it for ourselves.  So we went a-quaking
finding fault, and that would be bound to fetch more bad luck--and keep
fine; and down by the village was the river, a whole mile broad, and
finished, that he might receive his companion.  With this resolution I
fire at the cavern the first thing, and didn't show a candle outside
first jolt, as you may say, when my breath sort of hitched, he being so
first light and tell."  I felt easy and happy and light as a feather
first results of those sympathies for which the daemon thirsted would
first saw them in my chamber at Ingolstadt.
first supposition was that it was the corpse of some person who had
first time that I begun to worry about the men--I reckon I hadn't had
first towhead stood for a man that would try to do us some good, but the
fished and hunted, and that was what we lived on.  Every little while he
fishing-boat land close to me, and one of the men brought me a packet;
fist into his eyes, and he was dragging a gun along with the other one.
five-center piece; but they wouldn't touch it, because the devil had had
fix a day as soon as they could, and then we elected Tom Sawyer first
fixed for the fulfilment of my destiny.  In that hour I should die and
fixed things so folks would think robbers done it, and then he'd get
flight of the vulture and dimmed her rays, while the lake reflected the
floating on his back in the water.  They took him and buried him on the
floor in the far corner that looked like a man.  So Jim says:
floor.  It fell pretty solid, and only rolled about an inch.  Jim tried
floored, and sometimes the table was set there in the middle of the day,
flourishing vineyards with green sloping banks and a meandering river
fog?"
folks I used to see a lot of the Shepherdsons there on their fine horses.
folks are all down with chills and fever.  Don't be a fool again, and let
follow around, but I stooped down to look at the tracks first.  I didn't
follow the bars and hunt for easy water under the reefs; but nights like
follow the track of that sackful of rocks to the shore and then drag the
followed and directed my steps and when I most murmured would suddenly
followed around to see.  I stood on the bank and looked out over the
followed me and might expedite my remissness by murdering my
fondness did I feel for them!  How did I cling to their dear forms, as
food, and placing it in a sledge, to draw which he had seized on a
fool, and fooled away his life; but now he was a-going to turn over a new
foolishness. Why can't a body take a club and ransom them as soon as they
foot of Jim's blanket, ever so natural, thinking there'd be some fun when
for I found his tracks in the snow.  What I wanted to know was, what he
for Judge Thatcher in the courts to make him give up that money, and he
for a moment, but followed him as his shadow, to protect him from the
for a week.
for all me--I'll never vote agin as long as I live.  And to see the cool
for anybody being alive in her.  I pulled all around her and hollered a
for dark, and start back in the canoe and take the chances.  So we slept
for it. The skiff was half full of plunder which that gang had stole
for its solemnization drew nearer and I heard it continually spoken of
for me; I didn't want to see him no more.  He used to always whale me
for my letters with feverish impatience; if they were delayed I was
for peaceful happiness.  During my youthful days discontent never
for putting on frills and trying to be better than him; and when I
for several hours, this sudden certainty of life rushed like a flood of
for the guilty there is no peace.  The agonies of remorse poison the
for the house was all as still as death now, and so the widow wouldn't
for the most verdant islands that believe the eye by their gay
for the next half an hour showed about how he was scared.  By that time
for them words; so he cried, and his wife she cried again; pap said he'd
for those whom we have lost to those who yet live.  Our circle will be
for two or three months yet.
for, my sweet cousin, there must be perfect confidence between us.  But
forbear recording it.
force his abhorred presence on me to remind me of my task or to
forehead was high, and his hair was black and straight and hung to his
forever before me, ghastly and murdered.  More than once the agitation
forever deprived of the delights that such beautiful creatures could
forever from my native country and wandered a friendless outcast over
forever with the bitterest remorse.  I was now about to form another
forever.
forever?  Has this mind, so replete with ideas, imaginations fanciful
forget the past in my union with her.
form conjured up by my fancy.  After having landed, they proceeded to
form which I cannot find words to describe--gigantic in stature, yet
form within.  Oh!  With what a burning gush did hope revisit my heart!
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
forth and your courage exhibited, because danger and death surrounded
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
fortitude to recall the memory of the frightful events which I am about
fortune, that an early marriage would at all interfere with any future
forward, and a murmuring sound arose from the crowd as they followed
forward. It was dark as pitch there; but I said, in a kind of a coarse
found a brass button in his stomach and a round ball, and lots of
found a rattlesnake in there.  I killed him, and curled him up on the
found murdered here last night."
found such a one, but I fear I have gained him only to know his value
found that I had overtaxed my strength and that I must repose before I
found.
four long sweeps at each end, so we judged she carried as many as thirty
fourteen year old, was riding through the woods on t'other side of the
fourteen, there ain't no telling what she could a done by and by.  Buck
freckled places swapped about a little, showing there was a little breeze
free from breakers.  But these gave place to a heavy swell; I felt sick
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
friend, that I love you and that in my airy dreams of futurity you
friendly.
friends and derives from that communion consolation for his miseries or
friends were safe from the malignity of the fiend; my father even now
from China for you to marry, they've got to do it--and they've got to do
from US?"
from anguish to pleasure.  "Is my father indeed come?  How kind, how
from another place, and it was likely that as I did not appear to know
from her lips.  While I still hung over her in the agony of despair, I
from here.  I'm one of them--but I hain't talked it around.  A few days
from its debasing and miserable fears to contemplate the divine ideas
from that everyday tranquillity befitting my years and infirmities. You
from the foot of the island.  I had my gun along, but I hadn't shot
from the mainland, which was about five miles distant.
from the outside.
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
from the river, and he treated me so bad I couldn't stand it no longer;
from the spot.  The sky became clouded, but the air was pure, although
from which I might otherwise have snatched repose and peace.  I waited
front of the captain's door, which was open, and by Jimminy, away down
froze to death when somebody found him after sun-up.  And when they come
fulfilment of my promise.
full of rushes--and ducks too, you might say, in the season.  There was a
full upon his ghastly and distorted shape as he fled with more than
fum de water as much as you kin, en don't run no resk, 'kase it's down in
furniture, and took possession, an incident which would doubtless have
further ahead and clear out of hearing--it was floating a little faster
further and further away, and I couldn't make out the words any more; but
further off, and by and by, after an hour, I didn't hear it no more.  The
further than that if I was to live forever.  I don't take no stock in
future ages might curse me as their pest, whose selfishness had not
gang and get them out of their scrape, so they can be hung when their
gang of murderers in yonder, and if we don't hunt up their boat and set
gapped and stretched himself and hove off the blanket, and it was Miss
gazed with delight on her dark eyes, fringed by deep lashes, and her
generally avoided these, as it was here that the population of the
genial and sunny climate, could not hope to survive.  Yet at the idea
gentle and sweet like a dove, and she was only twenty.
gentleman you murdered, I believe that it were better for you if you
get at my britches-pocket.  I took notice, and done better.
get down on a thing when they don't know nothing about it.  Here she was
get here?"
get his hat, I reckon, but I couldn't see.  We never stopped running till
get his rights in a govment like this. Sometimes I've a mighty notion to
get wet?
getting all ready to quit rafting.
getting towards the long days and the short nights now.  T'other one said
girl tolerable poor, but you might fool men, maybe.  Bless you, child,
git her to say she wouldn' do it, but I never waited to hear de res'.  I
git into such a scrape?"
give an account of yourself."
give him five cents to keep quiet, and said we would all go home and meet
give his life but to obtain one look of affection from thine eyes; my
give it to a nigger name' Balum--Balum's Ass dey call him for short; he's
give it.  That's the correct idea."
give me the very idea I wanted.  I says to myself, I can fix it now so
give no expression to my sensations--they weighed on me with a
give up trying, and up and says:
gives me more pleasure than I have for some time experienced.  If you
giving it up.  But they didn't yet a while.  They turned around the foot
glad I didn't drink whisky; but it wouldn't made much difference anyway,
glad to see Jim.  I warn't lonesome now.  I told him I warn't afraid of
glance which communicated terror to her, and trembling, she asked,
globe; I shall collect my funeral pile and consume to ashes this
glorious expedition?
glorious spirit?  What can I say that will enable you to understand the
glorious, for this was it an honourable undertaking.  You were
glory, and you'd have a little glimpse of tree-tops a-plunging about away
go hawking--just hawking and sp--Sh!--d' you hear a noise?"
go there, and she said not by a considerable sight.  I was glad about
go to sleep, of course; but I was so sleepy I couldn't help it; so I
go with an awful crash, and then go rumbling, grumbling, tumbling, down
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
goes off wid de cattle 'bout daylight, so dey wouldn' 'spec to see me
going down town to get some whisky; said he hadn't had a drink all day.
going on in the town; but by and by she dropped on to pap and the murder,
going than a dead man.
going to get into with quarrelsome people and all kinds of mean folks,
going to stay here?  You got to stay always.  We can just have booming
gone for to sport aloft In the realms of the good and great.
good and at the same time don't bring you into no resks.  Ain't that so?"
good for true. Lemme look at you chile, lemme feel o' you.  No, you ain'
good friends," said I, "will you be so kind as to tell me the name of
good luck's a-comin' for?  Want to keep it off?"  And he said:  "Ef you's
good place to build a fire on.  So we built it there and cooked dinner.
good sense, it ain't good morals.  Ain't I right?"
good sermon, and they all talked it over going home, and had such a
good shape, she would start in and strike a hundred and fifty before she
good to see by.  Then we got out the raft and slipped along down in the
goodness.  But it is even so; the fallen angel becomes a malignant
goodness. The boat floated on and went out of sight around the shoulder
got a few buckshot in him; but he don't mind it 'cuz he don't weigh much,
got a good start; then I out with my saw, and went to work on that log
got down, but I kept in the thick woods and on the lookout all the time.
got enough he would buy his wife, which was owned on a farm close to
got hairy arms en a hairy breas', it's a sign dat you's agwyne to be
got the corpse they was after.  Well, I see I warn't hurt, thanks to
got to cussing, and cussed everything and everybody he could think of,
got to go over me, and I wanted it to have plenty of room.  I could
got to shore pap wasn't in sight yet, and as I was running her into a
got to sleep with the hogs in the tanyard.  I never see such a son.  I
got together in a corner that was out of the range of the front windows
got tuckered out.  They wouldn't took any money for her.
got under the table and raised the blanket, and went to work to saw a
govment!  That ain't all, nuther.  The law backs that old Judge Thatcher
govment, and yet's got to set stock-still for six whole months before it
grabbed a plank that touched me while I was "treading water," and struck
grabbed his gun and rode straight to the place where we was hid.  But we
gradually recovered my health.
grasp of a daemon whom I had myself created.
grasping my neck, and screamed aloud with agony and terror.
grassy open place amongst the trees, I fetched meal and bacon and coffee,
graves.  Everything was silent except the leaves of the trees, which
greasy, and hung down, and you could see his eyes shining through like he
great road to Edinburgh, but to visit Windsor, Oxford, Matlock, and the
great times now if I was over at the town.  The June rise used to be
great to be endured in my weak state; I shed tears.  "Alas!  Yes, my
grew restless and nervous.  Every moment I feared to meet my
grief and horror and sprung towards the window.  Never did I behold a
grief.  Soon after my arrival my father spoke of my immediate marriage
groans of Clerval were music to my ears?  My heart was fashioned to be
ground and crawled in among the trees, and, sure enough, there was Tom
ground for a quarter of a mile or more, and then I run across a big
ground, and I seen somebody's tracks.  They had come up from the quarry
ground; it was a scene of wonderful solemnity and stirred strange
ground?  I must perform my engagement and let the monster depart with
guardian, and they guessed it would win this time.  This shook me up
guilt, no mischief, no malignity, no misery, can be found comparable to
gun go off at my ear, and Harney's hat tumbled off from his head.  He
gun in the canoe, or a fishing-line, or anything to eat.  We was in
gun.  Dat's good.  Now you kill sumfn en I'll make up de fire."
gun.  I slipped the ramrod down it to make sure it was loaded, then I
gwyne to be waseful o' chillen?  No, he ain't; he can't 'ford it.  HE
had I not followed him and closed with him in mortal strife?  But I had
had a good time, and licked me.  The widow she found out where I was by
had a monstrous easy time, because I warn't used to having anybody do
had an insurmountable aversion to the idea of engaging myself in my
had any gumption would?  No; I take en whack de bill in TWO, en give half
had arrived the night before, armed with a gun and many pistols,
had been a cave-in in the bank there.  A tow-head is a sandbar that has
had been moved from the posture in which I had first beheld her, and
had been taken from before my eyes and that I for the first time saw
had before been clear, was suddenly overspread by a thick cloud, and I
had begun my adjuration with solemnity and an awe which almost assured
had enemies which he called magicians; and they had turned the whole
had ever done before.  A ground sea was heard; the thunder of its
had for me down there, and there ain't nothing better that ever I've come
had him to breakfast and dinner and supper with the family, and was just
had in view.  His design was to visit India, in the belief that he had
had indeed drawn down a horrible curse upon my head, as mortal as that
had just come to live with her, and took a set at me now with a
had loitered in forests, hid himself in caves, or taken refuge in wide
had no right to withhold from him the small portion of happiness which
had not strength enough to endure cold and peril; and so, poor souls,
had provided a physician and a nurse.  It is true, he seldom came to
had seen him before.  It was young Harney Shepherdson.  I heard Buck's
had to quit on the business.
hadn't no luck somehow; I couldn't seem to find the place.  But by and
hailed a steeple which I at length saw issuing from behind a small
hain't ever goin' to tell."
hain't heard nothing but about you bein' rich.  I heard about it away
hair trunk with the hinges broke.  They stood open, but there warn't
half a chile?  I wouldn' give a dern for a million un um."
half a minute, and that was enough; there wouldn't nothing go wrong again
half hid in the recess of the mountain.  Oh, surely the spirit that
halfway resting-place and seated myself beside the fountain.  The stars
halter if you can git at what you're up to in some way that's jist as
hamlet on the seashore.  I inquired of the inhabitants concerning the
han' it over to de right one, all safe en soun', de way dat anybody dat
han's."
hand at the business, and wanted to know how far it was to Cairo.  Jim
hand with her "tribute" before he was cold.  She called them tributes.
hand.  Well, I was getting to feel that way myself, though I've always
handle; it was laid in between a rafter and the clapboards of the roof.
handling a snake-skin was such awful bad luck that maybe we hadn't got to
hands shook so I couldn't hardly do anything with them.
hands which executed the deed; I think on the heart in which the
hands will meet my eyes, when that imagination will haunt my thoughts
hands; so I took up a needle off of the table and went to threading it.
handsome lot of quality, I tell you.
handy."
hanging against the wall, and some men's clothing, too.  We put the lot
hanging on from shutter to shutter, for the edge of the skylight was in
hangman who would gain his fee?
happen."
happened to look up.  The windows of the room had before been darkened,
happened to other navigators who have attempted this sea, and in spite
happened, only he painted it up considerable.  Then he said he must start
happened; my eyes wandered round the room as if to seek something that
happiness I desire as well as my own when I declare to you that our
happiness, and with a howl of devilish despair and revenge, withdrew.
happiness, that while he accumulated wretchedness and despair upon me
happiness.  The delight of Clerval was proportionably greater than
harbour, which I entered, my heart bounding with joy at my unexpected
hard luck.  Here, I'll put a twenty-dollar gold piece on this board, and
hard to make out to understand them they'd just take us into bad luck,
hard-looking strangers, and then went off with them.  Well, he hain't
hardships.  During the day I was sustained and inspirited by the hope
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
harrowing sensations that would possess me during the progress of my
has indeed taken refuge in the Alps, he may be hunted like the chamois
has wandered or what region he may now inhabit."
hash you up like nothing before you could say Jack Robinson.  They are as
hastened that of a far dearer victim.
hat on the floor; I took that, too.  And there was a bottle that had had
hateful.  I provided myself with a sum of money, together with a few
have answered you; you may torture me, but I will never consent."
have been my constant friend and companion.   But it is your
have been, can death be any evil to me?"
have destroyed the work which you began; what is it that you intend?
have devoted my creator, the select specimen of all that is worthy of
have ever followed in his track.  Sometimes the peasants, scared by
have interested the most unfortunate being.  Clerval did not like it so
have lived I hardly know; many times have I stretched my failing limbs
have met with another whom you may love; and considering yourself as
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
have of life even in the excess of misery!  I constructed another sail
have persuaded to be my companions look towards me for aid, but I have
have the bullet holes in front, you know, and the old man he rode up and
have to make.  It is indeed a tale so strange that I should fear you
have viewed my operations, can bear witness of my truth.  I am the
have yet to wrestle for our lives, but many hard and miserable hours
having been made by an English philosopher, the knowledge of which was
having few affections, clings more earnestly to those that remain.
hay.  The sun sank beneath the horizon as we landed, and as I touched
he asked who appeared as witnesses on this occasion.
he believed it.  The old man said that what a man wanted that was down
he calmed himself and proceeded--
he condemns me?  Let him live with me in the interchange of kindness,
he didn't get saved he would get drownded; and if he did get saved,
he got drunk; and every time he got drunk he raised Cain around town; and
he heard the sound of my approach, he ceased to utter exclamations of
he never told what it was he said to it.  Niggers would come from all
he reckoned the widow was partly right and pap was partly right; so the
he said, "What do you mean?  What do you demand of your captain?  Are
he saw a boat, with a single man in it, at a short distance from the
he sought his own enjoyment in feelings and passions from the
he stretched, but mainly he told the truth.  That is nothing.  I never
he swore he'd make the law force him.
he told it he spread it more and more, till by and by he said they rode
he want to res'."
he was running for his freedom, and you could a paddled ashore and told
he was, that letters from the friends he had formed in London desired
he watched out for me one day in the spring, and catched me, and took me
he went away to be gone a couple of days, and so I took my chance and
he went by so close I could a reached out the gun and touched him.  Well,
he would be blind drunk in about an hour, and then I would steal the key,
he would win his lawsuit and get the money if they ever got started on
he'd be in a slave country again and no more show for freedom.  Every
he'll go back.  You mark them words--don't forget I said them.  It's a
he's biting me on the neck!"  I never see a man look so wild in the eyes.
head of the island I never waited to blow, though I was most winded, but
head of the island, a day or two before that, so I says to myself, like
head upon my hands, gave way to every gloomy idea that arose.  If I
head--it was all under water now.
heading away to the right of it.  And the next time I was heading away to
headline, you won't have to come a-near the raft--please do."
heads. When we was passing by the kitchen I fell over a root and made a
health and hope, and the next a prey for worms and the decay of the
health and youth.  Often, when wearied by a toilsome march, I persuaded
hear Jim tell about it, and he was more looked up to than any nigger in
hear ME.  I'm for putting him out of his troubles."
hear de preacher say dat whoever give to de po' len' to de Lord, en boun'
hear her.
hear him through the blanket.
hear it again.  The next time it come I see I warn't heading for it, but
hear no sign of a whoop nowheres.  I reckoned Jim had fetched up on a
hear old missus tell de widder she gwyne to sell me down to Orleans, but
hear such talk.  They talked low and earnest.  Bill wanted to kill
hear the owls and the wolves away off in the woods, and it seemed
hear? That man warn't here for no good.  I'd a shot him.  Next time you
heard at a distance as the islands split and cracked in every
heard it, the whole truth rushed into my mind, my arms dropped, the
heard of even in my country.
heard pap's gun in the woods.  I got rid of the signs of my work, and
hears the whoop BEHIND me.  I was tangled good now.  That was somebody
heart a resolution to pursue my destroyer to death, and this purpose
heart never to resume my labours; and then, with trembling steps, I
heart was heavy, and my steps slow.  The labour of winding among the
heart, but I no longer talked in the same incoherent manner of my own
heart; but trust him not.  His soul is as hellish as his form, full of
hearts round him thickened, 'Twas not from sickness' shots.
hearts thicken, And did the mourners cry?
heavenly vivacity that had before charmed me; but her gentleness and
heavens, which were covered by clouds that flew before the wind, only
heavy-hearted about the gang, but not much, for I reckoned if they could
heavy; next he begun to snore--and then I was pretty soon comfortable
held his toes; and the cussing he done then laid over anything he had
held it in his hand and waited till Tom's and Bob's was mixed, and then
held up my two hands and she put the hank over them, and went on talking
helped to run away, coming right out flat-footed and saying he would
helping these rapscallions, because rapscallions and dead beats is the
helpless; I have strangled the innocent as they slept and grasped to
her and embraced her with ardour, but the deadly languor and coldness
her and whispered, `Awake, fairest, thy lover is near--he who would
her drifting down the river so these fellows can't get away from the
her face and neck, I might have supposed her asleep. I rushed towards
her father.  She was beautiful.
her happy.  If the monster executed his threat, death was inevitable;
her head hanging down and her pale and distorted features half covered
her name--and they lost their steering-oar, and swung around and went
her poor old scrap-book and read in it when her pictures had been
her prey, and I should soon have sunk beneath this misery.  Once, after
her right elbow, under a weeping willow, and her other hand hanging down
her room and shut the door very soft, and asked me if I liked her, and I
her side holding a white handkerchief and a reticule, and underneath the
her.  She was very deep, and I see in a minute there warn't much chance
herd of common projectors.  But this thought, which supported me in the
here at a farm; so I ain't hungry no more.  It's what makes me so late.
here, I'll--"
here, and keep them till they're ransomed."
here. Pass me along another hunk of fish and some hot corn-bread."
here."
here; you stop that putting on frills.  I won't have it.  I'll lay for
hereafter to be hailed as the benefactors of your species, your names
heroism, that can you wonder that these men were moved?  They looked at
hesitated to buy its own peace at the price, perhaps, of the existence
hide the canoe in, amongst the thick willows.  We took some fish off of
hideous death.  In this manner many appalling hours passed; several of
hideousness.  I shut my eyes involuntarily and endeavoured to recollect
hifalut'n foolishness, hey?--who told you you could?"
high. We had a rough time getting to the top, the sides was so steep and
highly probable that these papers may never reach you, yet I cannot
him NOW it wouldn't make no difference after the row and the way we've
him a many a time 't I wouldn't trade places with him; for, says I, a
him again for a week.  But he said HE was satisfied; said he was boss of
him all over the world, and tired him most to death, and his back was all
him and his raft was just a speck on the water away off yonder.
him and let one of them be my guardian; but it was a new judge that had
him and tied him he'd a killed us both.  And what FOR?  Jist for noth'n.
him any more.  I thought it all out, and reckoned I would belong to the
him around, too; he was sunshine most always--I mean he made it seem
him for the change and filled him with cheerfulness and admiration. But
him off with the gun, and it warn't long after that till I was used to
him they were out of sight, so he come aboard.  He says:
him with his own hands, and told him he could cure anybody with it and
him, and tried to make him give up the money; but he couldn't, and then
him, yet can I counsel one so infinitely miserable, so destitute of
him?"
hired men to row and took an oar myself, for I had always experienced
his asseverations, however earnest and connected.  Such a monster has,
his bosom, and each beast have his mate, and I be alone?  I had
his camp fire all the better for the dark, if he's got one."
his destruction."
his eyes and uttered a shrill scream; I drew his hand forcibly from his
his eyes closed forever, while the irradiation of a gentle smile passed
his face was concealed by long locks of ragged hair; but one vast hand
his hands on it.  Jim was most ruined for a servant, because he got stuck
his journey to London might be followed, even sooner than he now
his knife, and fried him.
his leg; but by and by the drunk begun to come, and so I judged he was
his life for a texas and a pilot-house such a night as this, when it's
his mark. The judge said it was the holiest time on record, or something
his mate before I allowed myself to enjoy the delight of a union from
his own deformity, and might he not conceive a greater abhorrence for
his protectors had manifested towards him.  His power and threats were
his return to complete the negotiation they had entered into for his
his size, and was ragged, and had uncommon long hair, which was all like
his son, and he'd make it warm for HIM.
his station, and running with the swiftness of lightning, plunged into
his tale, and her nostrils spread and her eyes snapped.  The two young
his terrific appearance.  He had carried off their store of winter
his white hair a-flying in the wind; and 'stead of jumping off and taking
history of man. But why should I dwell upon the incidents that followed
hitherto declined, was now much restored; and my spirits, when
hollered and asked me whether I was asleep or drownded.
home.
hooks.  I tried for the hooks three or four times, but somehow I couldn't
hope so, anyway."
hope to see you in less than a fortnight.  My poor cousin, how much you
hope, soon quit this melancholy abode, for doubtless evidence can
hope, which I dared not trust myself to question but which was
hope.  Oh!  My beloved sister, the sickening failing of your heart-felt
hoped to induce you to grant me a boat with which I could pursue my
horizon, the wind died away into a gentle breeze and the sea became
horror, and then, far from being surprised at my misery, you will only
horrors that were accumulated around him; the springs of existence
horse both went home pretty leaky and crippled, but the Grangerfords had
horses coming; and next I hear people's voices.  I got everything into
hot.  The river was very wide, and was walled with solid timber on both
hour after dark we come along down in our trading-scow, and it was so
hour's rest, which was absolutely necessary, and yet which was bitterly
hours befo' this wrack breaks up and washes off down the river.  See?
hours of lonely, maddening reflection.  Nay, Henry might stand between
hours, of happiness that I might retain strength to fulfil my
house, but my head whirled round, my steps were like those of a drunken
how gaudy they dressed, and how much style they put on, and called each
how many brides and youthful lovers have been one day in the bloom of
how that snag's tearing along.  If you think it ain't dismal and lonesome
how the eternal twinkling of the stars weighed upon me and how I
how to talk French?"
however, that I wish to dictate happiness to you or that a delay on
http://gutenberg.net/license).
http://www.gutenberg.net/fundraising/donate
human feelings when sunk in torpor.  She wept with me and for me.  When
hundred elephants, and six hundred camels, and over a thousand "sumter"
hundred yards below the wreck, and the darkness soaked her up, every last
hundreds of soldiers there, and elephants and treasure, and so on, but we
hung over it and joined my sad tears to theirs; all this time no
hunt and fish to keep alive, and so get so far away that the old man nor
hurt you.  But don't try to budge; stand right where you are.  Rouse out
hurt you; listen to me.'
ice or frozen by the eternal  frosts.
ice, and no fish could be procured; and thus I was cut off from my
if I belonged to a race of human beings like myself, and I began to
if I didn't drop that.
if I had mangled the living flesh of a human being.  I paused to
if there was a boat around I couldn't see it, for stars and shadows ain't
if they don't git off mighty quick!  Why, how in the nation did they ever
ignorant and disappointed.  It requires more philosophy than I possess
ignorant, but had read a book called Don Quixote, I would know without
ignorantest kind of words and pictures made with charcoal.  There was two
illuminate the chamber.  The shutters had been thrown back, and with a
imagination conjured up a thousand images to torment and sting me.  Why
imagination of it was conceived and long for the moment when these
imagined himself to have possessed while he associated with his
imbibed a horror of deformity.  If, therefore, I could seize him and
immediately after our union, we should proceed to Villa Lavenza and
immediately after the enunciation of his threats.  I resolved,
impend over me and my devoted family!  Could I enter into a festival
impenetrable. "Are you mad, my friend?" said he.  "Or whither does your
in French, "I fear that this place is very shocking to you; can I do
in Scotland who had formerly been our visitor at Geneva.  He mentioned
in a fix, sure.  So on we prowled again.  We struck for the stern of the
in a left-hand bend.
in a place where it's a good hiding-place for you and the skiff, and then
in and "'terpret" it, because it was sent for a warning.  He said the
in blood."
in darkness, yet still displaying their black outlines.
in en bust it all up.  A body can't tell yit which one gwyne to fetch him
in her eyes as she beheld my emaciated frame and feverish  cheeks.  I
in his desolation; I am alone.
in his knowledge of its various languages, and in the views he had
in his own nature greater capacities and resources than he could have
in his ugliness.  I attempted to speak, but the words died away on my
in it--all I could drag--and I started it from the pig, and dragged it
in it.  Jim said he'd had it there a long time, to coat it over so and
in my bosom.
in my ear. They are dead, and but one feeling in such a solitude
in my face, and kept still, watching with all their might.  I could see
in my feelings since the night of the appearance of the daemon.  I had
in my manner, and something, I doubt not, of that haughty fierceness
in my marriage wore a greater appearance of certainty as the day fixed
in my memory?  No, it is not thus; your form so divinely wrought, and
in one place for good, and not have such a rough time tramping on foot.
in order to complete my work.  It was, indeed, a filthy process in
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHER
in prison, and although I was still weak and in continual danger of a
in the cavern, we could rush there if anybody was to come to the island,
in the dark and look sharp.  Then he studied it over and said, couldn't I
in the daytime, hardly.  I practiced around all day to get the hang of
in the dingnation's a-going' to PAY for it?  Do you reckon your pap--"
in the kitchen and get some more.  I didn't want him to try.  I said Jim
in the moonshine; I never knowed it before.  And how far a body can hear
in the river with a skiff, setting a trot-line.  I ranged up and says:
in the water so long it warn't much like a face at all.  They said he was
in the west.  The moon had reached her summit in the heavens and was
in the woods ever so mournful; and I heard an owl, away off, who-whooing
in these parts for a year or more."
in those wilds where the beasts of the field will be your only
in two as a cat. Dey's plenty mo'.  A chile er two, mo' er less, warn't
in vain endeavour to fly from an impending danger, and was rooted to
in yo' life, en considable joy.  Sometimes you gwyne to git hurt, en
in. Then Ben Rogers says:
inaccessible precipices was a being possessing faculties it would be
inclinations.  But this is false reasoning.  I confess to you, my
including a considerable parcel of people which he didn't know the names
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
indeed awake, and see me, and curse me, and denounce the murderer? Thus
indeed, I dreamt that I wandered in flowery meadows and pleasant vales
indeed, he left marks in writing on the barks of the trees or cut in
indefatigable, but he did not know the origin of my sufferings and
indignation filled me with an insatiable thirst for vengeance.  I
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
indulged in such luxuries, and even fresh water, was to be procured
indulgence of which I was forever barred, then impotent envy and bitter
infancy.  Suddenly, as I gazed on him, an idea seized me that this
infant when compared to the roarings of the giant ocean.
inferiors.  "I could pass my life here," said he to me; "and among
inflict this curse upon everlasting generations?  I had before been
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
inhabits and guards this place has a soul more in harmony with man than
inmates of his breast.  I checked, therefore, my impatient thirst for
innocent; that could easily be proved; accordingly I followed my
inside of a week our folks laid HIM out."
inspire love, I will cause fear, and chiefly towards you my arch-enemy,
instantly darted into my mind that the murderer had come to mock at my
instruction and amusement.  He was also pursuing an object he had long
insurmountable barrier to the invader who should wish to enslave it.
intensity of my wretchedness?  You can blast my other passions, but
intention of my fiendish adversary, I would rather have banished myself
intentions; and when I thought that I had prepared only my own death, I
interchange of those sympathies necessary for my being.  This you alone
intercourse of the men of genius and talent who flourished at this
intercourse with those I loved.  I knew that a thousand fearful
interest, and it fetched us a dollar a day apiece all the year round
interest?"
interesting.  Look also at the innumerable fish that are swimming in
interfere and separate families if they could help it; said he'd druther
intermixed with obscure forebodings of evil that made my heart sicken
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
intervals.  One day, while I was gradually recovering, I was seated in
intimate union, may not such also be our case?  Tell me, dearest
into contortions too horrible for human eyes to behold; but presently
into my flesh, and I sank again, trembling and hopeless, into my
into the canoe--it might come good.  There was a boy's old speckled straw
into the room where the body lay for interment, that it might be
into the room.  Great God!  Why did I not then expire!  Why am I here
into the village and could see three or four lights twinkling, where
into the woods for my regular sleep.  He told me when the roads forked I
into which I now sank refreshed me; and when I awoke, I again felt as
into which these reflections threw me made my friends dread a dangerous
introduction that I had brought with me, addressed to the most
invincible, and that when he had pronounced the words "I SHALL BE WITH
invitation, and I, although I abhorred society, wished to view again
invoked to aid me.  Often, when all was dry, the heavens cloudless, and
irksome to me, I continued my route.  The sledge was still visible, nor
irksome to me.  Sometimes I could not prevail on myself to enter my
is a sound as of a human voice, but hoarser; it comes from the cabin
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
is beautiful in nature or the study of what is excellent and sublime in
is blind to a thousand minute circumstances which call forth a woman's
is eloquent and persuasive, and once his words had even power over my
is mam and Mary Ann."
is nearly complete.  Neither yours nor any man's death is needed to
is true, we shall be monsters, cut off from all the world; but on that
is unspeakable when I reflect that the murderer, whom I have turned
is well that you come here to whine over the desolation that you have
is your duty as a magistrate, and I believe and hope that your feelings
is, nothing only everything was cooked by itself.  In a barrel of odds
islan'?"
island in the low places and on the Illinois bottom.  On that side it was
island was three mile long.  I judged they had got to the foot, and was
island, and Jim had gone down t'other side of it.  It warn't no towhead
islands, nor no troubles, nor nothing.  I been setting here talking with
it WAS pap, sure enough--and sober, too, by the way he laid his oars.
it a thousand mile."
it again, and then another time, and it acted just the same.  Jim got
it against her mouth, and underneath the picture it said "And Art Thou
it before sun-up next morning, too.  And more:  they've got to waltz that
it contained letters from Geneva, and one from Clerval entreating me to
it darkened up, and begun to thunder and lighten; so the birds was right
it did show it looked like it was a thousand mile off.  By the time I got
it down.
it for up-stream boats unless we see we was in what they call a
it he said they rode him down to New Orleans; and, after that, every time
it hurt her arm so.  Then she told me to try for the next one.  I wanted
it means that we keep them till they're dead."
it now if they read on and see what more it done for us.
it of you and paid you for it.  Here's a dollar for you.  Now you sign
it push off from that part of the shore where the corpse was afterwards
it seemed to kind of take the tuck all out of me.  I went along slow
it split and cracked with a tremendous and overwhelming sound.  The
it stood.
it to me and Buck, and we drank to the old people too.
it was a good long job, but I was getting towards the end of it when I
it was almost motionless, for the winds were hushed, and all nature
it was most abreast of where I stood I heard a man say, "Stern oars,
it was piled up.  Well, Judge Thatcher he took it and put it out at
it was to be sacrificed or to see those whom I most loved die under the
it was worse than chasing a Jack-o'-lantern.  You never knowed a sound
it when it came before his eyes in the female form?  She also might
it would have afforded me inexpressible pleasure.  But a blight had
it's below my chin, and then it ain't rightly a hat at all, but more like
it's considered best to kill them--except some that you bring to the cave
it's pap, though I warn't expecting him.  He dropped below me with the
it, and I felt as if all hell surrounded me with mockery and laughter.
it, and kill the lot and scoop the things.  He said we must slick up our
it, and these you were to brave and overcome.  For this was it a
it, to order that my chemical instruments should be packed to go with
it.
it.  Dey ain' no sense in it."
it.  I am surrounded by mountains of ice which admit of no escape and
it.  Right then along comes a skiff with two men in it with guns, and
it. I was all over welts.  He got to going away so much, too, and locking
it. Is your husband going over there to-night?"
it."
it."
it."
it; and the suit went agin one of the men, and so he up and shot the man
it; so every now and then I'd borrow two or three dollars off of the
it; they can have just as much as they want; everything belongs to them."
it?  So says I to Jim:
it?"
its grave, and has to go about that way every night grieving.  I got so
its keel cut through the waves; the murmur lulled me, and in a short
its miseries forever.  At length I wandered towards these mountains,
its romantic castle and its environs, the most delightful in the world,
its source in her; be hers the punishment!  Thanks to the lessons of
its superior wildness and ruggedness.  The Greeks wept for joy when
its willow islands and over the summits of its hills.  I have dwelt
itself, but soothing inasmuch as it supposed the safety of my friends.
jailers, turnkeys, bolts, and all the miserable apparatus of a
jams him into an old trap of a cabin like this, and lets him go round in
jest one time too many.  You're the meanest, treacherousest hound in this
jewels which had belonged to my mother, and departed.  And now my
join him.  He said that he was wearing away his time fruitlessly where
journey across the mountainous ices of the ocean, amidst cold that few
journey across the sea in a direction that led to no land; and they
journey by water, sleeping that night at Evian and continuing our
journey, for I was a shattered wreck--the shadow of a human being.  My
joy for a few instants shone in her eyes, but it continually gave place
joy it was to shed their blood and to revel in their groans.  How they
joy-imparting smiles are bestowed on all but me.  And then I bent over
judge for him, to keep from getting a cowhiding.  Every time he got money
judge's wife she kissed it.  Then the old man he signed a pledge--made
judged I was gone.  If they'd a had some bullets in, I reckon they'd a
judged he wouldn't come back that night.  I waited till I reckoned he had
judged the old man would turn up again by and by, though I wished he
judgment that fitted me for illustrious achievements.  This sentiment
judgment to put EVERYTHING on the raft.
judgment, because that was the boot that had a couple of his toes leaking
jumped in, and was off in a hurry.  I went up-stream far enough to make
jury rejected the bill, on its being proved that I was on the Orkney
just a beauty, too, about thirteen or fourteen foot long, riding high
just barely hear a "me-yow! me-yow!" down there.  That was good!  Says I,
just come, and he didn't know the old man; so he said courts mustn't
just leave the country for good and all. Yes, and I TOLD 'em so; I told
just make a clean breast and tell her everything, but she musn't go back
just rising from the sea; I had not sufficient light for my employment,
just set there and watched him rip and tear around till he drownded.  We
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.
keep from knocking the islands out of the river; and so I judged the raft
keep my eyes open all I could do, and so before I knowed what I was about
keep witches away.  But I hadn't no confidence.  You do that when you've
keeping mum--but that don't make no difference.  I ain't a-going to tell,
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
kill the women, too?"
killed me and took the things.  They won't ever hunt the river for
kind of belief that is given to a tale of spirits and supernatural
kind of gentle:
kind the widow and good people takes the most interest in.
kind; so I never tried to do anything, but just poked along low-spirited
kindness, and you will meet with their detestation; your evil passions
kinfolks of the family.  The men brought their guns with them.  It was a
kingdom! it won't do to fool with small-pox, don't you see?"
knees, asleep, with his right arm hanging over the steering-oar.  The
knees.  I gave his shoulder two or three little shoves, and begun to cry.
knew that I was preparing for myself a deadly torture, but I was the
knife and cut the rope, and away we went!
knife or anything in the cabin when he was away; I reckon I had hunted
knock it all down again.  I judged I could see that there was two
knocked at the door, and made up my mind I wouldn't forget I was a girl.
know anything, somehow--perfect saphead."
know how to value 'em.  But you take a man dat's got 'bout five million
know whether she could throw true now.  But she watched for a chance, and
know.
know. Well, after a long time I heard the clock away off in the town go
knowed all kinds of signs.  He said he knowed most everything.  I said it
knowed very well I had done wrong, and I see it warn't no use for me to
knowed who shot the man, and what they done it for.
knowing whither I was going, and careless of what was passing around.
knows sense when I sees it; en dey ain' no sense in sich doin's as dat.
labboard, in the dark, towards the texas, feeling our way slow with our
laboratory for several days, and at other times I toiled day and night
labourers as we glided down the stream.  Even I, depressed in mind, and
lady took care of the room herself, though there was plenty of niggers,
lady was at a window looking up at the moon, and tears running down her
laid down for a nap before breakfast.
laid it across the turnip barrel, pointing towards pap, and set down
lamp or the ring, and they've got to do whatever he says.  If he tells
land towards the south.
land.  It had a wild and rocky appearance, but as I approached nearer I
landed on the side towards the Illinois shore.  I run the canoe into a
language--mostly hove at the nigger and the govment, though he give the
languid and unable to reflect on all that had passed.  The whole series
lantern hanging on the jackstaff of a double-hull ferryboat.  I skimmed
lantern in his hand, and the other one had a pistol.  This one kept
lantern in the middle of it.  I watched it come creeping down, and when
lantern roun' so.  I had my pipe en a plug er dog-leg, en some matches in
last Bud seen it warn't any use, so he stopped and faced around so as to
last autumn so unhappy, flying to solitude from the society of
last it was over the banks.  The water was three or four foot deep on the
last, and the raft did seem to go mighty slow.  If a boat was to come
lasted me all the way, and I had a-plenty.  I said I believed my uncle
laugh at him.  But it warn't so this time.  It was a drift-canoe sure
laugh.  It rang on my ears long and heavily; the mountains re-echoed
law had bound me out to a mean old farmer in the country thirty mile back
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
lay on the deck looking at the stars and listening to the dashing of
lay the remains of my ill-fated and admirable friend.  Over him hung a
laying there so mournful and lonesome in the middle of the river.  I
lead them into fresh dangers, after they might happily have surmounted
leaf and be a man nobody wouldn't be ashamed of, and he hoped the judge
leak no more, and took it and my saw to the canoe again.
learns people how to talk French."
least pains which I was destined to endure; I was cursed by some devil
leave Europe and inhabit the deserts of the new world, yet one of the
leave my friends unconscious of the existence of their enemy and
leave my labour for the night or hasten its conclusion by an
leave my solitary isle and to meet him at Perth, that we might proceed
leave that night if pap got drunk enough, and I reckoned he would.  I got
leave to you; my judgment and ideas are already disturbed by the near
leaves; and then a perfect ripper of a gust would follow along and set
left Switzerland with you; I crept along the shores of the Rhine, among
left some mark to guide me.  The snows descended on my head, and I saw
left, he said.  But I said, come on, if we get left on this wreck we are
legs together on it and she went on talking.  But only about a minute.
let me.  He said it was death.  He said his father laid mighty sick once,
let on.  I got the thing, and the first rat that showed his nose I let
let the canoe drop along down amongst the shadows.  The moon was shining,
level of the raft, so now the blankets and all the traps was out of reach
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
life dearly and not shrink from the conflict until my own life or that
life of its creator;--has this mind perished?  Does it now only exist
life.
life?  It was surely that I might fulfil my destiny, which is now
lifeless form of his creator, he seemed to forget my presence, and
lifelessness.
light, and laid on my oars and floated.  As I went by I see it was a
light, and sort of singing to myself.  By and by one showed.  Jim sings
like a dream, yet distinct and oppressive as a reality.
like a duck.  I shot head-first off of the bank like a frog, clothes and
like good weather.  When he turned into a cloudbank it was awful dark for
like that. Then they tucked the old man into a beautiful room, which was
like there was a pivot there for it to turn on, like a girl; not from the
liked dead people, en done all I could for 'em.  You go en git in de
likely be asleep, and they can slip around through the woods and hunt up
likely to break up and wash off down the river any minute?"  Jim couldn't
lingering detail of its execution.  A frightful selfishness hurried me
lips.  The monster continued to utter wild and incoherent
listen to the waves as they roared and dashed at my feet.  It was a
listened to every blast of wind as if it were a dull ugly siroc on its
listened to me with attention and kindness.
lit out mighty quick, I tell you.
little ain't got no show--when the pinch comes there ain't nothing to
little and a little more till somebody said, "There, that's enough--put
little birds had said it was going to rain, and did I want the things to
little chance of meeting with him.  But the consideration of these
little creature was unprejudiced and had lived too short a time to have
little creek like a gully, all hung over with vines and willows, I struck
little curtain.  The young woman in the picture had a kind of a nice
little paths of the mountain and fixing my feet firmly as I advanced
little saplings to tie to.  I passed the line around one of them right on
little they always give me the fan-tods.  Everybody was sorry she died,
little ways looked dim and spider-webby; and here would come a blast of
little while he jumps up and says:
little, but there wasn't any answer; all dead still.  I felt a little bit
live till she got it done, but she never got the chance.  It was a
live, and my power is complete.  Follow me; I seek the everlasting ices
lived near the beach and was standing at the door of her cottage,
lived pretty high.
lived, and to destroy him I must drag out my weary existence.  I knelt
lively affection towards each other without desiring a more
lives.  The seegars was prime.  We laid off all the afternoon in the
living in the house all the time, considering how dismal regular and
loathsome task in my father's house while in habits of familiar
loaves of bread and float them off, because they always go right to the
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
locked me in and went down to the store, three miles, to the ferry, and
log ahead o' me en swum more'n half way acrost de river, en got in
log forked I could peep through.
log hut in a place where the timber was so thick you couldn't find it if
lonesome.  I judged he had got drowned, and I wasn't ever going to get
long after sun-up then, and when you ask for help you tell them your
long been a stranger.  And if these were my sensations, who can
long time in getting over.  I made a safe landing, and clumb up the bank.
long ways off.
long's I live!" says the man on the floor, sort of blubbering.
long-continued.  Frankenstein, who was dozing, awoke and asked the
longer I lit out.  I got into my old rags and my sugar-hogshead again,
look at it a minute.  Dah's de stump, dah--dat's one er de women; heah's
look at me, and all said, "Why, HE ain't a Shepherdson--no, there ain't
look him all over, same as if he was a wonder.  Niggers is always talking
look up--seemed to me I said it was Sarah; so I felt sort of cornered,
look'n'-glass; and a piece of carpet on the floor--and your own father
look, and there laid a man on the ground.  It most give me the fantods.
looked in at the window.  We could make out a bed, and a table, and two
looked out at a hole in the leaves, and I see a bunch of smoke laying on
looked to me like all the signs was about bad luck, and so I asked him if
looked up, I saw scenes which were familiar to me in my happier time
looking down a joint of stove-pipe.  Jim said nobody would know me, even
looking sour and sick, too.  He says:
looking up to the moon, with the tears running down her face, and she had
looky yonder!" It was a steamboat that had killed herself on a rock.  We
loose en gone I--en here we is!"
loose upon society, still exists.  You refuse my just demand; I have
loose."
los' en t'other one was jis' as good as los', 'kase he didn' know whah he
lost a horseshoe that you've found, instead of nailing it up over the
lost in darkness and distance.
lot they'll be, too--eating up everything, and always trying to get
love and admiration among men, to misery; I have pursued him even to
loved and miserable in the separation.  When it became noon, and the
loved them to adoration; and to save them, I resolved to dedicate
loveliness of youth and health.  Here, I thought, is one of those whose
lovely lips; but presently my rage returned; I remembered that I was
lovely; and the rain would thrash along by so thick that the trees off a
lower hills.  The Alps here come closer to the lake, and we approached
luck when you'd killed a spider.
luck; and besides, he said, he might come and ha'nt us; he said a man
lucky, because I was weakening; I was getting afraid I had come; people
lugged all the traps up there.  Then we hunted up a place close by to
lump of lead.  Why, I spotted you for a boy when you was threading the
luxury there is otherwise sometimes found in indulging the excess of
machinations.
mad, and he said he would go straight and tell all the secrets.  But Tom
mad, and this in itself would forever have chained my tongue.  But,
maddening rage when I thought of him, and desired and ardently prayed
made every other circumstance of existence pass before me like a dream,
made fast there.
made for it.
made it out.  It was that dull kind of a regular sound that comes from
made me deef with the noise and pretty near blind with the smoke, and I
made me tremble when pronounced by Henry, and I hastened to quit
made some acquaintances, who almost contrived to cheat me into
made the canoe fast and set in her to wait for daylight.
made.  You throw a torch into a pile of buildings, and when they are
madness.  He endeavoured to soothe me as a nurse does a child and
magistrate, he deposed that he had been out fishing the night before
magistrate, whose mind was occupied by far other ideas than those of
magnificent; and the lovely Isis, which flows beside it through meadows
mainland.  I shuddered to think who might be the next victim sacrificed
mainly, I judged--then his face sort of smoothed down, and he says,
make a ball of it.  It was as big a fish as was ever catched in the
make it work.  By and by, one day, I asked Miss Watson to try for me, but
make trouble, and wouldn't do no good.
malice and treachery.  I thought with a sensation of madness on my
malignity and selfishness in evil; he destroyed my friends; he devoted
malignity is withdrawn from your power."
man came a-pawing along in the dark, and when Packard got to my
man died, the bees must be told about it before sun-up next morning, or
man that hadn't ever done me no harm.
man that left his family, it didn't say why.  I read considerable in it
man's own son, which he has had all the trouble and all the anxiety and
man, I fell at last in a state of utter exhaustion; a film covered my
man, and kills him; then that other man's brother kills HIM; then the
man, being six foot two inches long, and weighed over two hundred pounds.
man?--er is a cow a cat?"
manner as in the collections at Servox and Chamounix.  The latter name
manners which he observed was to him an inexhaustible source of
many leagues, I arrived at Strasbourg, where I waited two days for
many months in the heaths of England and among the deserts of Scotland.
many ruined castles standing on the edges of precipices, surrounded by
marked.  But I couldn't see no profit in it.  One time Tom sent a boy to
marriage would render me eternally miserable unless it were the
marriage.  We have been unfortunate, and recent events have drawn us
married and never was heard of no more, and Bill went to hunt them and he
marry de po' one fust en de rich one by en by.  You wants to keep 'way
matches and other things--everything that was worth a cent.  I cleaned
material to my success, and I sometimes thought of obtaining my
materials I had collected, resolving to finish my labours in some
mathematics, anyway.
matter now.  "Boom!" I see the white smoke squirt out of the ferryboat's
may I ever find.  When I first sought it, it was the love of virtue,
may die, but first you, my tyrant and tormentor, shall curse the sun
may possibly say, What can Elizabeth have to explain?  If you really
may still be misled by passion.
me a bar of lead twisted up into a knot, and said she was a good shot
me about a bluejay and a young rabbit he had catched in the woods day
me and cling to me forever.
me and filled me with such agreeable sensations that I resolved to
me and the intrusion of my foe.  If I were alone, would he not at times
me at them, for about a quarter of a minute:  Three big men with guns
me for about a half a minute longer you'll get something you won't want."
me for her son, and allowed she would sivilize me; but it was rough
me he took a good gap and stretch, and then he says:
me hopes of succour and life.  I had no conception that vessels ever
me in.  Once he locked me in and was gone three days.  It was dreadful
me incapable of any exertion.  I threw down the oar, and leaning my
me no good.  By and by I says to myself, I can't live this way; I'm
me some bad luck, so I was scared and most shook the clothes off of me.
me that he was not yet satiated with blood, he had murdered Clerval
me that the shades of my murdered friends heard and approved my
me the rest I so much desire; or must I die, and he yet live?  If I do,
me to chop off the snake's head and throw it away, and then skin the body
me to comply with his hellish desires.  I put my hand before my eyes,
me to fear; yet when I thought of my beloved Elizabeth, of her tears
me to set on, and give me the paddle; and as I shoved off, he says:
me to the dust; and, in executing the award of justice, I shall also
me whilst they endured.
me why I should pity man more than he pities me?  You would not call it
me with the gentle voice of love; no dear hand supported me.  The
me, I continued with unabated fervour to traverse immense deserts,
me, I now see compassion in your eyes; let me seize the favourable
me, and I must live to fulfil it, or surely I should have died on the
me, by the deep and eternal grief that I feel, I swear; and by thee, O
me.
me.
me.  A change indeed had taken place in me; my health, which had
me.  Filled with dreary imaginations, I passed through many beautiful
me.  I had already been out many hours and felt the torment of a
me.  I liked the old ways best, but I was getting so I liked the new
me.  She was a hired nurse, the wife of one of the turnkeys, and her
me.  Towards morning I was possessed by a kind of nightmare; I felt the
me." His voice seemed suffocated, and my first impulses, which had
me; but my gestures and bitter cries were sufficient to affright the
me; if ye really pity me, crush sensation and memory; let me become as
meal and my old saw out of the canoe, and fetched them to the house.  I
meanest thing to fog.  You can't tell the shape of the river, and you
meaning to pay them back some time; but the widow said it warn't anything
meantime overjoyed and in the bustle of preparation only recognized in
melancholy that nothing could dissipate.  The image of Clerval was
memory of past misfortunes pressed upon me, I began to reflect on their
memory of the past and the anticipation of the future.  I was formed
memory.  Once my fancy was soothed with dreams of virtue, of fame, and
men looked dark, but never said nothing.  Miss Sophia she turned pale,
men, likely.  She had five big wigwams aboard, wide apart, and an open
mentioned again by the gang, but have a curse put on it and be forgot
merchants and rich A-rabs was going to camp in Cave Hollow with two
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
middle I heard the clock begin to strike, so I stops and listens; the
midnight."
might be supposed to have inhabited.  The spirit of elder days found a
might be writhing under his grasp, and Ernest might be dead at his
might bury me and my destroyer in its ruins.
might know my voice and find me out.  But if this woman had been in such
might see me and hail me.  I got out amongst the driftwood, and then laid
might trace the steps of my fiendish enemy.  But my plan was unsettled,
might wake up and come.  But Tom wanted to resk it; so we slid in there
mighty good weather as a general thing, and nothing ever happened to us
mighty smart.  Well, here she comes, and we said she was going to try and
mildly, "I would willingly afford you every aid in your pursuit, but
mile above our house; so sometimes when I went up there with a lot of our
mile away, where there was three or four lights twinkling.  A monstrous
mile er more to whah dey warn't no houses.  I'd made up my mine 'bout
mile wide.
miles across.  The moon was so bright I could a counted the drift logs
milk in it, and it had a rag stopper for a baby to suck.  We would a took
mind I wouldn't try for it.  But I never said so, because it would only
mind being searched for arms, because he didn't mean no harm by it--it
mind the night in which he first lived.  I was unable to pursue the
mind was intently fixed on the consummation of my labour, and my eyes
mind, Cairo would be the next place, I reckoned.
mine is assigned to me by heaven, and I dare not.  I am weak, but
mine.  When I run over the frightful catalogue of my sins, I cannot
mine; his mind expanded in the company of men of talent, and he found
mine?  Sometimes, seized with sudden agony, he could not continue his
minute and a half.  Then I bounced for the top in a hurry, for I was
minute he judged he was about free.  It was according to the old saying,
minute."
mischief.  I bent over her and placed the portrait securely in one of
miserable a year ago, even perhaps augmented by time.  I would not
miserable and overcome by a thousand fears; and when they arrived and I
miserable by this supposition.  Be happy, my friend; and if you
miserable fiend, to torture and death.  Never will I give up my search
miserable frame, that its remains may afford no light to any curious
miserable ravings of a murderer.  He came, therefore, sometimes to see
miserable self.
miserable wretch, haunted by a curse that shut up every avenue to
miserable, I sank to repose, and my dreams lulled me even to rapture.
miserable.  Am I not shunned and hated by all mankind?  You, my
miserableness.
misery I now felt, and the excess of agitation that I endured rendered
misery and taunt me with the death of Clerval, as a new incitement for
misery and terror to you the day after our marriage shall take place,
misery which nothing but the eternal sentiment of a just retribution
misery which you appear to feel."
misery.  Urged by this view, I refused, and I did right in refusing, to
misfortunes.
misfortunes.  On every point of general literature he displays
mist came over my eyes, which obliged me to lean on a chair for
mistaken for a dream, and I have no motive for falsehood." My manner as
mite of whisky or apple brandy in the bottom of their tumblers, and give
mo' dan fo' dollars, en I said 'f I didn' git it I'd start a bank mysef.
moan, and I says:
mockery of a soul still more monstrous.  My father still desired to
moment and persuade you to promise what I so ardently desire."
moment he lay dead at my feet.
moment more ominous and terrific.  I pressed on, but in vain.  The wind
mongs' de neighbors en fine out which un you de bill DO b'long to, en
monotonous yet ever-changing scene.  I thought of Switzerland; it was
monster followed me and would discover himself to me when I should have
monster might satisfy his sanguinary and merciless passions.  This idea
monster; he seemed to jeer, as with his fiendish finger he pointed
monstrous hooks on it, and a roll of buckskin, and a leather dog-collar,
monstrous long raft that was as long going by as a procession.  She had
months in this wonderful and celebrated city.  Clerval desired the
moon that way, like a fool.
moon, everything was obscure, and I heard only the sound of the boat as
more stuff; but that warn't pap's style.  Nine logs was enough for one
more'n your share of the truck, and you've always got it, too, because
more--if I was one of them I would see a man in Jericho before I would
more.  Well, the night got gray and ruther thick, which is the next
more."
mortal speed.
mos' to de foot er de islan' b'fo' I found' a good place.  I went into de
most always right; he had an uncommon level head for a nigger.
most wished I was dead.  The stars were shining, and the leaves rustled
mostly a true book, with some stretchers, as I said before.
motion of every muscle and fibre was suspended; I could feel the blood
motionless and speechless, wishing for some mighty revolution that
mountain's weight and their excess destroyed my agony beneath them.
mountaineers; the majestic oaks, the quantity of game, and the herds of
mountains and streams and all the wondrous works with which Nature
mountains of La Valais, and the Pays de Vaud; but this country, Victor,
mountains of our own country." Clerval!  Beloved friend!  Even now it
mountains that in vain endeavour to emulate her; sometimes coasting the
mourner.
mournfully at the barred windows and wretched appearance of the room.
moved by the sophisms of the being I had created; I had been struck
mudcat himself.  Col.  Grangerford was very tall and very slim, and had a
mules, all loaded down with di'monds, and they didn't have only a guard
multiplied hardships into a death which I still dread, for my task is
murder if you could precipitate me into one of those ice-rifts and
murder, and he endeavoured to prove to me the futility of pride.
murderers, to be in such a fix.  I says to myself, there ain't no telling
must always light the lantern whenever we see a steamboat coming
must be butting into the bank every now and then, or else it would get
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
must do it, and he mustn't eat and he mustn't sleep till he had killed
must enter the room which had been the scene of my odious work, and I
must handle those utensils the sight of which was sickening to me. The
must have driven me far from the coast from which I had embarked.  I
must have suffered!  I expect to see you looking even more ill than
must take the right hand, and five mile would fetch me to Goshen."
must you endure until that period shall arrive."
mutilated one should go down to posterity."
my Elizabeth I possessed a treasure, alas, balanced by those horrors of
my actions.  Yet I seek not a fellow feeling in my misery.  No sympathy
my adversary.  But I discovered no trace of him and was beginning to
my basket aboard a little skiff, sailed out about four miles from the
my bosom; every sound terrified me, but I resolved that I would sell my
my brother and felt myself extremely agitated; my limbs trembled, and a
my cap, en dey warn't wet, so I 'uz all right."
my clothes got to be all rags and dirt, and I didn't see how I'd ever got
my craw; but I says, this ain't no time to be fooling around.  So I got
my crimes and his misfortunes. But in the detail which he gave you of
my dogs died, and I myself was about to sink under the accumulation of
my enemy is not invulnerable; this death will carry despair to him, and
my existence and of its unspeakable torments, dared to hope for
my eyes.  But I dasn't scratch.  Then it begun to itch on the inside.
my five dollars en he pay me thirty-five at de en' er de year.
my friend, indignation was rekindled within me.  "Wretch!" I said.  "It
my hands and knees in the little passage, and crept aft in the dark till
my hands."
my head was shoved up through a jint o' stove-pipe.  Look at it, says I
my hearer with consternation and make fear and unnatural horror the
my heart.  I saw an insurmountable barrier placed between me and my
my life should not retard it a single hour.
my memory when I saw the lifeless form of Henry Clerval stretched
my motions, I entreat you; leave me to peace and solitude for a short
my nose, and puffed a bit.  Of course there was a booming current; and of
my outward form, would love me for the excellent qualities which I was
my own mind that to create another like the fiend I had first made
my pulse beat with a feverish joy when I reflected that I should soon
my representations, and why do you again harden yourself to my
my restlessness, awoke me; the dashing waves were around, the cloudy
my sentiments.  I saw him descend the mountain with greater speed than
my society on him as I could spare.  He besought me, therefore, to
my soul with anguish.
my spirits continually agitated by gloomy feelings, even I was
my suffering, away from her, the inroads of misery and grief.  It had
my trouser-legs to my knees and got into it.  Jim hitched it behind with
my unfortunate comrades have already found a grave amidst this scene of
my unhallowed acts and the crimes which had their source in me!
my unparalleled sufferings; it was the prospect of that day when,
my utterance.
my vigour was exhausted, and I should soon have sunk under my
myself easy and at home, and tell all about myself; but the old lady
myself guilty and suffer the penalty of the law, less innocent than
myself that I was dreaming until night should come and that I should
myself to a nigger; but I done it, and I warn't ever sorry for it
myself to my most abhorred task.  The prospect of such an occupation
myself to the mercy of the seas rather than abandon my purpose.  I
myself, but I couldn't seem to make it go somehow.  They kept Emmeline's
myself, in life or death, to the happiness of my cousin."
mysterious woe.  Upon this occasion my father said, with an expression
named Jim, was setting in the kitchen door; we could see him pretty
narration I said, "This is the being whom I accuse and for whose
narrow place and got into a kind of room, all damp and sweaty and cold,
native country.  We visited the wondrous cave and the little cabinets
natural nor sound natural in a fog.
natural to one who was entering on a new scene of life, undisturbed by
navigate it.
near the spot and endeavoured, but in vain, to restore it to life.  It
nearly busting.  I popped out to my armpits and blowed the water out of
necessarily arise when I live in communion with an equal.  I shall feel
necessary for the preservation of life.  Oppressed by the recollection
neck out about a minute, listening.  Then he says:
need anybody to tell me that that was an awful bad sign and would fetch
needle; and I contrived the other things just to make certain.  Now trot
needn't done it; I didn't want to see him.  There was heaps of old greasy
neighbourhood of man and dwell, as it may chance, in the most savage of
neighbourhood of man and hide himself in deserts, but she had not; and
never get any sleep, just so as to watch them.  I think that's
never got anything but some doughnuts and jam, though Ben Rogers got a
never more might I enjoy companionship with them.  Yet even thus I
never say one single word?  What did that poor old woman do to you that
never tell any of the secrets; and if anybody done anything to any boy in
new coat for a jug of forty-rod, and clumb back again and had a good old
newspapers for wadding, besides some tow.  I toted up a load, and went
next morning, at daybreak, I summoned sufficient courage and unlocked
next one.  She went and got the lump of lead and fetched it back, and
next week, and rob somebody and kill some people.
nigger I ever see.  So I went to talking about other kings, and let
nigger till he's been in the State six months.  Here's a govment that
nigger woman, which was gone, and the two young women.  They all smoked
nigger, and--"
night I creeps to de do' pooty late, en de do' warn't quite shet, en I
night was about done.  I give her a turn with the paddle and brung her
night when I hear a PLUNKETY-PLUNK, PLUNKETY-PLUNK, and says to myself,
night, to the joy of the horror-struck villagers, had pursued his
no consekens to Sollermun, dad fatch him!"
no harm to borrow the others.  So we talked it over all one night,
no house out in the country before that was so nice and had so much
no how nor no way. It got to troubling me so I couldn't rest; I couldn't
no light but the glimmer of two eyes that glared upon me.  Sometimes
no mo' now.
no more.
no objections.  It was pretty good times up in the woods there, take it
no way.
no; he might wake and make a disturbance, and then they'd find out I
nobody but just me and pap left, and he was just trimmed down to nothing,
nobody hear.  So pap said somebody got to get ashore and get help
nobody won't think of following me.
nobody.  I said I would. So I slid out and slipped off up the road, and
noise.  We scrouched down and laid still.  Miss Watson's big nigger,
none to bestow.  There is something terribly appalling in our
north if they strenuously desired the contrary, but that I hoped that,
northern sides of the mountains, the lakes, and the dashing of the
nose to shore; then I got my gun and slipped out and into the edge of the
not credit my narrative and do not intend to pursue my enemy with the
not intercept the view I had of the daemon; but still my sight was
not omitted in my calculations; a creature who could exist in the ice
not pass it without seeing it.  He said he'd be mighty sure to see it,
not reflect that YOU are the cause of its excess.  If any being felt
not seek to increase your own."  Frankenstein discovered that I made
not take a child away from its father.  So Judge Thatcher and the widow
not to depend too much on the prospect that is opened before us, but I
not to leave the relics of my work to excite the horror and suspicion
not yet risen; they did not land at the harbour, but, as they had been
notes concerning his history; he asked to see them and then himself
nothing but just a shiny bed of lights; not a house could you see.  The
nothing could appear to me as it had done the day before.  A fiend had
nothing left in them that was any account.  The way things was scattered
nothing to distress you; and be assured that if a lively joy is not
nothing; it was for protection; thought I would kill some game nigh home.
notice anything at first, but next I did.  There was a cross in the left
noticed I had put in at all:
notion I could lan' mos' anywhers, but I couldn't--bank too bluff.  I 'uz
notion, too.  So we shortened up one of the calico gowns, and I turned up
nought; but if not, depart, depart, and leave me in darkness."
now and then.  The statements was interesting, but tough.  Another was
now know will be when he composes his shattered spirit to peace and
now to lament?"
now, and it'll be the better for you."
now, as she lay, her head upon her arm and a handkerchief thrown across
now--that's a specimen.  They call that a govment that can't sell a free
now. I had been to school most all the time and could spell and read and
now. One says:
number is 64-6221541.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
numerous drove of trained dogs, he had harnessed them, and the same
o' Huck; I's a free man, en I couldn't ever ben free ef it hadn' ben for
o' town, where there ain't nothing ever goin' on, not for all his
o'clock the night the murder was done.  So then they put it on him, you
o'clock, they observed a strong northerly blast rising, and they
o'clock.  I laid there in the grass and the cool shade thinking about
oars working in rowlocks when it's a still night.  I peeped out through
obey me in this one request, remain satisfied that nothing on
obey!"
obituaries and accidents and cases of patient suffering in it out of the
obliged to return nearly to the same spot from which I had departed.
obscure nook in the northern highlands of Scotland.
observed its path through the chasms of the higher and the glens of the
observed what effect the sight of it would produce upon me.  This idea
observer.  The spirits of the departed seemed to flit around and to
occasion."  This address caused a considerable change in the
occasioned some surprise had not all the senses of the cottagers been
occupied with the means of obtaining the information necessary for the
ocean.  I walked up and down my room hastily and perturbed, while my
of Geneva, which I should soon visit, of Elizabeth and Ernest; but
of Illinois, where the Ohio River comes in, and that was what we was
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
of Stephen Dowling Bots that fell down a well and was drownded:
of William, the execution of Justine, the murder of Clerval, and lastly
of a Sunday-school.
of a sensitive and rational animal, I could not rank myself with the
of a snake-skin again with my hands, now that I see what had come of it.
of another month.  In this expedition we did not intend to follow the
of being crushed in their conflict.  The cold is excessive, and many of
of being deserted by one of his own species.  Even if they were to
of chewing-gum, or whatever you want, and fetch an emperor's daughter
of civilized man.  I carefully traced the windings of the land and
of course that's what we've got to do."
of crime.
of cussing, and whistling of steam--and as Jim went overboard on one side
of delirium, and that, during my illness, some idea of this kind had
of enjoyment.  Once I falsely hoped to meet with beings who, pardoning
of exquisite verdure, is spread forth into a placid expanse of waters,
of fine sensations, and did I not as his maker owe him all the portion
of foot from me, and I thought I was gone; but he jerked it in again, and
of four hundred soldiers, and so we would lay in ambuscade, as he called
of gratitude at his acceptance.  But that cannot be; the human senses
of happiness that it was in my power to bestow?  He saw my change of
of his prosperity, when he is thus noble and godlike in ruin!  He seems
of hope, returning back upon the heart, often wrung bitter drops of
of ice that was continually lessening and thus preparing for me a
of it with the saw, for there warn't no knives and forks on the place
of it. But I never said so.  I asked her if she reckoned Tom Sawyer would
of liberty and self sacrifice of which these sights were the monuments
of lips, and the thinnest kind of nostrils, and a high nose, and heavy
of men.
of mister; and Jim's eyes bugged out, and he was interested.  He says:
of mountain above mountain by which it was overhung.
of my Elizabeth and the conversation of Clerval will be ever whispered
of my adversary was extinguished.  Elizabeth observed my agitation for
of my business; I am sent to nurse you and get you well; I do my duty
of my consent, but I felt that there was some justice in his argument.
of my declining years.  You were attached to each other from your
of my destruction, and you will anxiously await my return.  Years will
of my father, although they might only serve as the decorations of my
of my life appeared to me as a dream; I sometimes doubted if indeed it
of my malignity, it softened and attracted me.  For a few moments I
of my various misfortunes, I now swallowed double my usual quantity and
of my wife; even at that moment I knew not that my only remaining
of myself, he fills me with cheerful auguries.  Even the sailors feel
of natural history, where the curiosities are disposed in the same
of night, for in sleep I saw my friends, my wife, and my beloved
of offering any reply.  I revolved rapidly in my mind a multitude of
of our actions with more certain conclusions as to the integrity
of our appointment with our Scotch friend approached, and we left them
of our motives.  A sister or a brother can never, unless indeed
of parlors in towns has beds in them.  There was a big fireplace that was
of reality.
of steamboat waves.  Right in the middle of the wigwam we made a layer of
of that country whose knowledge and discoveries were of indispensable
of the dark."
of the day had produced.  Night was far advanced when I came to the
of the discovery of the body, when she saw a boat with only one man in
of the horizon.  Oh!  How unlike it was to the blue seasons of the
of the house and inspecting every corner that might afford a retreat to
of the inhabitants could long endure and which I, the native of a
of the island and started up the channel on the Missouri side, under
of the island.  I could hear the booming now and then, further and
of the last night's contention, and walked on the beach of the sea,
of the limbs told me that what I now held in my arms had ceased to be
of the north, where you will feel the misery of cold and frost, to
of the peasants; and I accordingly put them into a basket, with a great
of the sleeves, and a large black scoop-shovel bonnet with a black veil,
of the town of ---- from the place where I had deposited the corpse.
of the whole human race.
of the wildest rage as he shrieked out imprecations on his persecutor.
of the worth of my nature supported me when others would have been
of thing was right in his line.
of this--I murdered her.  William, Justine, and Henry--they all died by
of timber on both banks; just a solid wall, as well as I could see by the
of unbounded wonder, "My dearest Victor, what infatuation is this?  My
of us both will speedily vanish.  I shall no longer see the sun or
of voices as the fishermen called to one another.  I felt the silence,
of your low-down corn-pone.
of your misfortune and illness. I found several letters, and, among
of, and so called them what's-his-name when he got to them, and went
off en keep things a-movin'.  Dey wuz a nigger name' Bob, dat had ketched
off of the wreck, and found boots, and blankets, and clothes, and all
off the grease and clay, and looked so sorry that I thought I would
off to the left and shot by, amongst a lot of snags that fairly roared,
off yonder in the storm, hundreds of yards further than you could see
off.  I paddled over to the Illinois shore, and drifted down most a half
often that we laughed--only a little kind of a low chuckle.  We had
old Baldy Shepherdson a-linkin' after him with his gun in his hand and
old Finn, too--two hundred dollars.  You see, he come to town the morning
old Hatfield jist the same way--and don't he deserve it?"
old Sowberry Hagan in his best days, and he said it laid over him, too;
old Thatcher so to his face.  Lots of 'em heard me, and can tell what I
old bedquilt off the bed, and a reticule with needles and pins and
old chairs, and lots of things around about on the floor, and there was
old dirty calico dresses, and a sun-bonnet, and some women's underclothes
old piano, too, that had tin pans in it, I reckon, and nothing was ever
old pie to him, so to speak.  And after supper he talked to him about
old pine table, still a-begging; and then he went to crying.  I could
old place, and reckoned I would sleep in the canoe.
old-fashioned double log-house before I noticed it.  I was going to rush
ole Cairo at las', I jis knows it!"
ole Jim wid a lie.  Dat truck dah is TRASH; en trash is what people is
ole tumble-down cooper-shop on de bank to wait for everybody to go 'way.
on Sunday, and that settled the thing.  They agreed to get together and
on a clean shirt and a full suit from head to foot made out of linen so
on a pine table.  I didn't know her face; she was a stranger, for you
on account of his troubles; so when he died I took what there was left,
on fetching it, too, till we knowed enough to keep still.
on her promise.  Then I told her my father and mother was dead, and the
on him, you know; everything will be quieted down then, and he'll walk in
on his blankets by and by; but luck didn't run my way.  He didn't go
on its mind and can't make itself understood, and so can't rest easy in
on life, to whom care is new and agony unknown, how can you understand
on me all de time, en treats me pooty rough, but she awluz said she
on my oars, and looked back and see her go and smell around the wreck for
on my relatives.  This idea pursued me and tormented me at every moment
on my return I met the salutations of my friends with a readier smile
on the bank and listened to the current swashing along, and counted the
on the big river and the black driftwood and away over to the town, three
on the floor--an old black slouch with the top caved in, like a lid.
on the grass and kissed the earth and with quivering lips exclaimed,
on the ground to bleed; I say ground because it was ground--hard packed,
on the head.  Every thought that was devoted to it was an extreme
on the table.  Then I set down in a chair by the window and tried to
on the water such nights!  I heard people talking at the ferry landing.
on them if you wanted to; but not the snakes and turtles--they would
on, until I fell, never, never again to rise."  Must I then lose this
on, while my heart was poisoned with remorse.  Think you that the
on.  If I see a stump, I took it for a man; if I trod on a stick and
on. Even now my blood boils at the recollection of this injustice.
on; and he kept it up all over town, with a tin pan, till most midnight;
once was, you would not recognize me in this state of degradation.
one another and were unable to reply.  I spoke; I told them to retire
one borne down as you are by so strange a misfortune.  But you will, I
one day at least permits me to enjoy."
one er dem chuckleheads, you know.  But he's lucky, dey say, en I see I
one had bit him on the cheek--but I couldn't see no snakes.  He started
one of mine.  My nose begun to itch.  It itched till the tears come into
one of these peddlers had been along and scoured her up and got her in
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
one, and she was coming in a hurry, too, looking like a black cloud with
ones, too, a little bit. The widow said I was coming along slow but sure,
only Huck; but he laughed SUCH a screechy laugh, and roared and cussed,
only felt as if some great misfortune had suddenly overwhelmed me; but
only for a minute; I reckoned I wouldn't stay on hand till he got that
only happy one which I have enjoyed for several years.  The forms of
only just one of Tom Sawyer's lies.  I reckoned he believed in the A-rabs
only just pretended.  We used to hop out of the woods and go charging
only think of the bourne of my travels and the work which was to occupy
open with my saw, and towards sundown I started my camp fire and had
opportunities to fix the problem.
opposite banks, we saw the mighty Jura opposing its dark side to the
oppressed me, I wept aloud.
oppressed me.  I escaped from them to the room where lay the body of
oppressed, for I deemed it criminal to throw away in useless grief
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
or at a funeral, or trying to go to sleep when you ain't sleepy--if you
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
or false dealing, when another friend, however strongly he may
or outrun him most of the time.  I didn't want to go to school much
or saw myself out, one or t'other.  He drank and drank, and tumbled down
or the next day, or even until you come, if it will give you pain.
or twice."
orbs nearly covered by the lids and the long black lashes that fringed
ordinary "Pike County" dialect; and four modified varieties of this last.
other brothers, on both sides, goes for one another; then the COUSINS
other crowd then?"
other hand with its heels up, and underneath the picture it said "I Shall
other oar was smashed off, and the raft was littered up with leaves and
other one, though we hunted all around.
other respects, this hour, when I momentarily expect my release, is the
other witnesses.  Why did I not die?  More miserable than man ever was
other your majesty, and your grace, and your lordship, and so on, 'stead
others appeared only as a mockery, a shadow of the feelings that
others, one which I discovered from its commencement to be from your
otherwise should vanish from my eyes forever.  And I call on you,
our connection and believe yourself bound in honour to fulfil the
our room, and judged I would take a nap myself.  I found that sweet Miss
ourselves, I says:
out and made a little track all the way to the lake.  I dropped pap's
out any more.  I was scared.  I made up my mind I would fix up some way
out for shore, shoving it ahead of me.  But I made out to see that the
out in a fog that way by yourself in the night, you try it once--you'll
out into the solid white fog, and hadn't no more idea which way I was
out of his own head.  He said, some of it, but the rest was out of
out of something like chalk, and painted up gaudy.  By one of the parrots
out of the front end of it; so now he raised a howl that fairly made a
out of their chairs and give them good-day, and didn't set down again
out so many things.  So I fixed that as good as I could from the outside
out something brisk, and said let him alone.  The first fellow said he
out the gun, and now I was done.
out the nigger was gone; they found out he hadn't ben seen sence ten
out the place.  I wanted an axe, but there wasn't any, only the one out
out, and if they tried to come any such game on him he knowed of a place
out, and says:
out.  I said I didn't know; I hadn't heard about it before, no way.
out. Thinks I, what is the country a-coming to?  It was 'lection day, and
out."
out:
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.
outside with his hands, and said it was all right.  He told me to make
over Illinois with. The judge gave him some, and that evening he got
over and over wonderful fast, kicking things every which way, and
over his own father and let on to be better'n what HE is.  You lemme
over in upwards of a thousand places. Pretty soon Jim says:
over it.  Then he says:
over saddle-boils.  Jim was monstrous proud about it, and he got so he
over the banks.  Well, I warn't long loosing the whoops down amongst the
over them, ready to shoot them down if they move a peg?"
over yonder that they call Jackson's Island.  Don't anybody live there?
over"--these words were legible in one of these inscriptions--"you
over, and I reckoned I would walk off with the gun and some lines, and
over?"
overflowed, that I wished to be participated.  But now that virtue has
overflowing with the anguish which his remembrance creates.  I will
overwhelmed by an avalanche and where their dying voices are still said
own self!
pack er k'yards.  How much do a king git?"
paddle-box, and past the stern; then in a second or two more we was a
page at http://www.gutenberg.net/about/contact
painted in my face, my heart is contented.  Something whispers to me
pair would look best, and then scratch out all the other arms; but, as I
palace around over the country wherever you want it, you understand."
palace were alike hateful.  The cup of life was poisoned forever, and
pap when he didn't want the chicken himself, but that is what he used to
pap; but they couldn't make nothing out of the face, because it had been
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
parlyment; and if everybody don't go just so he whacks their heads off.
part of my sledge to construct oars, and by these means was enabled,
part of the bushes.  Then we lit the candles, and crawled in on our hands
part way and listened, with his head to one side.  He says, very low:
participate in these feelings, for to me the walls of a dungeon or a
particular state visit http://www.gutenberg.net/fundraising/donate
particulars of his creature's formation, but on this point he was
partly to console my sufferings.  On that night he had determined to
pass, and you will have visitings of despair and yet be tortured by
passage be opened, I should be rash enough to continue my voyage and
passage towards the south became perfectly free.  When the sailors saw
passage, and fell overboard; and that was how I come to be here.  So they
passed, a real insanity possessed me; sometimes I was furious and burnt
passion my reveries while the work was incomplete.  I trod heaven in my
passion which you alone can gratify.  We may not part until you have
passion.  And now it is ended; there is my last victim!"
past misfortunes had impressed, that what now appeared certain and
pasture for a few miserable cows, and oatmeal for its inhabitants,
path.  I had money with me and gained the friendship of the villagers
pause of the tempest of his passion.
peace.  But busy, uninteresting, joyous faces brought back despair to
peaceful and human, and you must feel that you could deny it only in
peasant enjoys when his family have been massacred before his eyes, his
peasants were shut up in their hovels, and only a few of the most hardy
penniless, and alone, but free. Such would be my liberty except that in
penury.  The thatch had fallen in, the walls were unplastered, and the
people crowded towards the spot.  They seemed much surprised at my
people guess what is the matter.  Now we're trying to do you a kindness;
people in St. Louis, but I never believed it till I see that wonderful
people in all walks of life.
people in that house stole the coat, because if they'd a knowed the money
people, and look out for them all the time, and never think about myself.
people, whom I do not know; hasten, then, my dear  friend, to return,
people.
perceptibly gained on it, and when, after nearly two days' journey, I
perfectly still then, listening to my heart thump, and I reckon I didn't
perform this sacrifice.  I shall quit your vessel on the ice raft which
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
period approached, the threat appeared more as a delusion, not to be
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.
perplexed me, occupied as I was by the emotions which the occurrences
persecutor.  Sometimes I sat with my eyes fixed on the ground, fearing
persevere in this exile?  You will return and again seek their
person landed close to my house.
personal familiarity with these several forms of speech.
persons accustomed to see without sympathizing in sights of misery. Her
persons attempting to find a moral in it will be banished; persons
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
physician came and prescribed medicines, and the old woman prepared
physiognomy of my own auditor.  He had heard my story with that half
pickins we've overlooked in the staterooms, and shove for shore and hide
picture it said "Shall I Never See Thee More Alas."  Another one was a
picture of a young woman in a long white gown, standing on the rail of a
pilgrimage.  Deprived of this respite, I should have sunk under my
pint is down furder--it's down deeper.  It lays in de way Sollermun was
pirate-books and robber-books, and every gang that was high-toned had it.
pistol, Bill."
pitiable to others and intolerable to myself.
pity that you feel; you lament only because the victim of your
place during this eventful night; but, knowing that I had been
place of rest.  The country in the neighbourhood of this village
place, and I kept answering, till by and by it was in front of me again,
place, and so forth and so on, and then I got easy again.  She was right
place, but just tramp right across the country, mostly night times, and
place.  She said all a body would have to do there was to go around all
places now.  I reckoned I couldn't stand it more'n a minute longer, but I
places.  My evil passions will have fled, for I shall meet with
placid as a southern sea, but because it was full of dangers and
plains.  Its fair lakes reflect a blue and gentle sky, and when
plan may have entirely destroyed it.  You, perhaps, regard her as your
plan of your parents ever since our infancy.  We were told this
plans of honour and utility that you may have formed.  Do not suppose,
plastered, and most had carpets on the floors, and the whole house was
plate, and comb up, and go to bed and get up regular, and be forever
play "The Battle of Prague" on it.  The walls of all the rooms was
pleasant, and says:
pleased.  I lay at the bottom of the boat, and as I gazed on the
pleases me more than all those wonders.  The mountains of Switzerland
pleasures and seem to be returning to yourself.  And yet you are still
plunged me into a reverie so despairing and frightful that even now,
poetry of nature." His wild and enthusiastic imagination was chastened
point would be not only useless, but draw down treble misery on us
pointed at me, which made me wince, I tell you; the oldest, gray and
pointing the pistol at the man's head on the floor, and saying:
points, and the well balancing of what you may esteem your duties, I
poor Justine had been.  Such were my thoughts when the door of my
position, stretched myself at the bottom of the boat.  Clouds hid the
possessed of magic powers, the monster had blinded me to his real
possession on the shores of Como belonged to her.  It was agreed that,
possibility, refuse this demand?  I hesitated before I answered, when
possible to obliterate the memory of the scenes that had taken place in
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
power of style about her.  It AMOUNTED to something being a raftsman on
power of thunder and lightning, and the rain poured down in a solid
power over our minds which hardly any later friend can obtain.
powerful lot to say about faith and good works and free grace and
powerful.  I will watch with the wiliness of a snake, that I may sting
powerfullest dream I ever see.  En I hain't ever had no dream b'fo' dat's
powwow over what we had done, and how many people we had killed and
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
prayed, but nothing come of it.  She told me to pray every day, and
prays, but it don't work for me, and I reckon it don't work for only just
precarious and full of terror.  Had I right, for my own benefit, to
precarious state of my health rendered every precaution necessary that
precaution he had taken to ensure my having a companion.  Without
precipitation.  In a few moments I saw him in his boat, which shot
preforeordestination, and I don't know what all, that it did seem to me
presence of your father would have been welcome instead of inspiring
presented itself to my imagination, the remembrance of which I
presented to your eyes was the body of your friend, murdered in so
presentiment of who it was and wished to rouse one of the peasants who
presents a singularly variegated landscape.  In one spot you view
preserved in my convalescence.
pressed down on them they squeaked, but didn't open their mouths nor look
previously communicating with me, he had, in concert with Elizabeth,
preyed upon my wasted frame.  Still, as I urged our leaving Ireland
prison was as welcome a residence as the divinest scene in nature; and
prison.  For they had called me mad, and during many months, as I
proceed with my tale.
procure nourishment.  Fortunately I had money with me.
progress, as the waters rolled and swelled beneath me, became every
prolong my stay on the water, and fixing the rudder in a direct
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
promise for some time, and I feared the effects of the daemon's
promise of creating another like to him, and trembling with passion,
promise that if the vessel should be freed I would instantly direct my
promise to ole Jim."
promised to comply with my requisition.  I am alone and miserable; man
promised to reveal to her on the following day.  My father was in the
promontory.  As I was in a state of extreme debility, I resolved to
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
provided me with fire and utensils for cooking.
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
punishment which is his desert." As I spoke, rage sparkled in my eyes;
pursued, you should make up your mind to disappointment."
put on some of them old things and dress up like a girl?  That was a good
put out the fire and scattered the ashes around to look like an old last
put up at auction and sold?--that's what I want to know.  And what do you
putting to flight the inhabitants of a solitary cottage through fear of
quantity of stones, and laying them up, determined to throw them into
quarter in between and keep it there all night, and next morning you
quieted my agony and for an interval reconciled me to life.  I now
quilt, because if he set up people could tell he was a nigger a good ways
quit him, and he be again alone, exasperated by the fresh provocation
quit shooting and dropped over to the Missouri shore and went home to the
quite gone.
quitted the room with my nurse, and in a moment my father entered it.
raf' go a-hummin' down de river, en leave you en de canoe behine in de
rag doll, and Jo Harper got a hymn-book and a tract; and then the teacher
rage to pursue the murderer of my peace and precipitate him into the
rain let up, but the clouds stayed, and the lightning kept whimpering,
raise for me.  Well, Balum he tuck de money, en when he wuz in church he
raise my eyes to his face, there was something so scaring and unearthly
raised at last, and ready to go to work and begin to do suthin' for HIM
raised.  You take a man dat's got on'y one or two chillen; is dat man
rapture the boundary of their toils.  I did not weep, but I knelt down
rat.  She said that was first-rate, and she reckoned I would hive the
rate, the current was so swift, and then I got into the dead water and
rather a severe tone, "I should have thought, young man, that the
razberries; and the green blackberries was just beginning to show.  They
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
reached for some of it as quick as I could to throw over my left shoulder
reached the environs of Geneva.
reached their acme, and what I must now relate can but be tedious to
read and ascertain my fate.  Sometimes I thought that the fiend
read the poetry.  Another was Henry Clay's Speeches, and another was Dr.
ready, take your places."
realized.  What I ask of you is reasonable and moderate; I demand a
reason returned, she would remonstrate and endeavour to inspire me with
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
receive strangers so inhospitably."
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
reck'n.  Mos' likely dey has rackety times in de nussery.  En I reck'n de
reckon Tom Sawyer would ever go by this thing?  Not for pie, he wouldn't.
reckon maybe he's gone, if it was him; but husband's going over to see
reckon that the people that made the books knows what's the correct thing
reckon they said? Why, they said he couldn't be sold till he'd been in
reckoned I wouldn't say nothing about the dollar I got from the judge.) I
reckoned he was gone he come back and put his head in again, and told me
reckoned that looking at the new moon over your left shoulder is one of
recollected my threat and resolved that it should be accomplished.  I
recorded would burst uncontrollably from me.  I could offer no
redistribution.
reflect on the best means of securing him; and for this purpose, about
reflect that a voluntary act of mine could avert it.  I had resolved in
reflect upon what had passed with greater composure; yet still the
reflect; I must pack up my chemical instruments, and for that purpose I
reflected on the work I had completed, no less a one than the creation
reflection upon melancholy subjects.  But her temper was fluctuating;
refuge in the most perfect solitude.  I passed whole days on the lake
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
regarded as worthy to disturb my peace, while the happiness I hoped for
regarding me, have changed that air of divine benignity to one
regarding my exclamation as a presumption of my guilt and said in
regular island; it might be five or six miles long and more than half a
relapse, I was obliged to travel nearly a hundred miles to the country
relapse.  Alas!  Why did they preserve so miserable and detested a
related my history briefly but with firmness and precision, marking the
relief from mental torment in bodily exercise.  But the overflowing
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
remain passive, my chief attention was occupied by my unfortunate guest
remains for us on earth; yet all that I may one day enjoy is centred in
remembrance of it.  I hardly know whether I shall have the power to
remonstrate.  He entreated me to write often.  "I had rather be with
remorse and guilt which would pursue me until death.
remote world.  This faith gives a solemnity to his reveries that render
renders some explanation necessary before we meet.   Explanation!  You
rendezvous.  I may be absent a month or two; but do not interfere with
reposed under the eye of the quiet moon.  A few fishing vessels alone
reposed.  I entered it and approached the tomb which marked their
repugnance to the task which was enjoined me.  I found that I could not
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
requires not this preparation; ye need not have come thus far and
res' easy en let de ole man take his own way.  Dey's two angels hoverin'
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
resembled madness in its intensity and effects, he was glad to find
resembled, to a greater degree, the scenery of Switzerland; but
resignation.  Ah!  It is well for the unfortunate to be resigned, but
resolutions of man.  These feelings are transitory; each day of
resolved not to fail in my purpose, and calling on heaven to support
rest, but returned immediately to Geneva.  Even in my own heart I could
resting on t'other knee; the boot on that foot was busted, and two of his
restored to my family in peace and happiness.  My promise fulfilled,
return shamefully, my purpose unfulfilled.  Yet I fear such will be my
return to England."
return without delay to Geneva, there to watch over the lives of those
return, have restored me entirely to myself.
returned hopeless, most of my companions believing it to have been a
returned, and like a mighty tide, overwhelmed every other feeling.
revenge is of no moment to you; yet, while I allow it to be a vice, I
revenge on his cursed head.
revenge remains--revenge, henceforth dearer than light or food!  I
reverted to my tale as the effects of delirium.
reward I promised myself from my detested toils--one consolation for
reward of my tedious toil and horrible pilgrimage!
reward out for him--three hundred dollars.  And there's a reward out for
rich. Well, dey's some use in a sign like dat, 'kase it's so fur ahead.
ridge, and got out of tobacco.  I went to the cavern to get some, and
right along with his cussing.
right off.  All my troubles was gone.  I went to looking out sharp for a
right.  Le's go and do it."
right; then the thing for us to do was to go for the magicians.  Tom
ring, and went out in the woods and rubbed and rubbed till I sweat like
rippling of the waves, silent and listless.  But the fresh air and
ripply, cool breeze begun to blow, and that was as good as saying the
river again. That disturbed Jim--and me too.  So the question was, what
river agin, whah you b'longs, en doan' do nuffn to Ole Jim, 'at 'uz awluz
river for me.  And they'll follow that meal track to the lake and go
river, and didn't have no weapon with him, which was blame' foolishness,
river, and her relations down the river, and about how much better off
river, en den I'd slip in jis b'fo' daylight en swim asho', en take to
river.  All safe.  So I took the gun and went up a piece into the woods,
river.  Now I thought of something else.  So I went and got the bag of
rivers joined together there, that would show.  But I said maybe we might
road's a rocky one, and your feet'll be in a condition when you get to
robbed of all that she could give me, she shall atone.  The crime had
rocks under it and one against it to hold it there, for it was bent up at
rocky streams were all familiar and dear sights to me.  Here also we
rolled off the porch and broke his left arm in two places, and was most
room trim and nice, and all the things fixed in it just the way she liked
rooms, and these exhibited all the squalidness of the most miserable
rose before me, and every here and there a broken tree lay on the
roughly?"  I replied.  "Surely it is not the custom of Englishmen to
roun' 'bout him.  One uv 'em is white en shiny, en t'other one is black.
roun' de place considable lately, en I begin to git oneasy.  Well, one
roun' de place, en so dey wouldn' miss me tell arter dark in de evenin'.
round about and on the river, and dances and picnics in the woods
round and instigated me to toil and revenge, I prepared for my journey.
round his neck with a string, and said it was a charm the devil give to
roundabout and pants of his, and I put them on.  While I was at it he
roused to any exertion, he speedily sinks again into apparent
rouses their energies, and while they hear his voice they believe these
roust me out, you hear?"
rows of glow-worms around it; but all of a sudden she bulged out, big and
rubbage.  We split the ball open with the hatchet, and there was a spool
rubbed it, and Daniel went to the town for an apothecary, but life was
rugged hills, ruined castles overlooking tremendous precipices, with
rugged mountains of ice often barred up my passage, and I often heard
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
run about town with a blazing stick, which he called a slogan (which was
run across that camp fire, stopping every minute or two to listen.  But I
run out a plank and walked ashore.  Most everybody was on the boat.  Pap,
run over and catched I crawled into a stateroom on the upper side.  The
running into the recess I had chosen, with all the sportiveness of
ruther too much of a sweat to think of so many things.  It warn't good
sacrifice the whole human race."
saddle-baggsed; but all of us was saved but Bill Whipple--and oh, he WAS
safe before he can get to town.  Hump yourself, now; I'm a-going up
safe; but this night is dreadful, very dreadful."
safety to the place where I hoped, notwithstanding my adversary's gibe,
said I could have a home there as long as I wanted it.  Then it was most
said I did; and she asked me if I would do something for her and not tell
said it was pretty bad money, but maybe the hair-ball would take it,
said it was wicked to say what I said; said she wouldn't say it for the
said likely we wouldn't, because I had heard say there warn't but about a
said she could rattle off poetry like nothing.  She didn't ever have to
said something over it, and then he held it up and dropped it on the
said.  Says I, for two cents I'd leave the blamed country and never come
said.  They judged it was him, anyway; said this drownded man was just
sail directly towards the town, as a place where I could most easily
sailor's life's the life for me, and I'm derned if I'D live two mile out
sake, in murder and wretchedness.  He had sworn to quit the
sank at sunset to a light breeze; the soft air just ruffled the water
sat by his bed, watching him; his eyes were closed, and I thought he
satiated in my life than in my destruction. But it was not so; thou
satisfied; but by and by it got sort of lonesome, and so I went and set
saved myself. Pretty soon he was all tired out, and dropped down with his
saved their lives; but I could not, my father, indeed I could not
saw a change in her also.  She was thinner and had lost much of that
saw around me nothing but a dense and frightful darkness, penetrated by
saw the superscription of Elizabeth or my father, I hardly dared to
sawdust.  Then I fixed the piece of log back into its place, and put two
sawlogs made fast together.  Then I see another speck, and chased that;
say de bank's busted.  So dey didn' none uv us git no money."
say no more; but I couldn't keep from studying over it and wishing I
say nothing to that, so he didn't try.  "And besides," I says, "we might
say something more; the longer she set still the uneasier I was.  But now
say this, my questions are answered and all my doubts satisfied.  But
say, anyway.
saying anything but that.  But that was enough.  It made me feel so mean
saying how the first thing he would do when he got to a free State he
says I. No, nobody, says they.  I didn't say any more, but I done some
says Tom Sawyer.  "We ain't burglars.  That ain't no sort of style.  We
says dey warn't business 'nough for two banks, so he say I could put in
says to myself, if a body can get anything they pray for, why don't
says, in a low voice:
says.  I hain't ever been here before.  Do you know him?"
says:
says:
says:
says:
says:
says:
says:
says; "but what does THESE things stand for?"
scared now, too; but in a minute I see I was mistaken--that is, after the
scared, and cried, and said he wanted to go home to his ma, and didn't
scary, with a long row of wide-open furnace doors shining like red-hot
scene of the busy heavens, rendered still busier by the restless waves
scene would have been solemn and affecting even to an uninterested
scene; they were flat but fertile, and almost every town was marked by
school, you hear?  I'll learn people to bring up a boy to put on airs
science and discoveries.  Yet why do I say this?  I have myself been
scorn.  Man!  You may hate, but beware!  Your hours will pass in dread
scrambled out of the window on to the shed.  Then I slipped down to the
scream.  It came from the room into which Elizabeth had retired.  As I
sea of ice.
sea; I listened to the gurgling sound as it sank and then sailed away
search the country, parties going in different directions among the
second I was in the boat, and Jim come tumbling after me.  I out with my
second with a stick, and Jim grabbed pap's whisky-jug and begun to pour
second.  Who could be interested in the fate of a murderer but the
secret news by his spies that next day a whole parcel of Spanish
secret, and then showed them a hole in the hill, right in the thickest
secret, and trust me.  I'll keep it; and, what's more, I'll help you.
secrets.  Tom said it was a good idea, so he took a pencil and wrote it
section of the big bottom log out--big enough to let me through.  Well,
security.  Boun' to git yo' money back a hund'd times, de preacher says!
sedulous attention.  She longed to bid me hasten my return; a thousand
see Geneva.  The past appeared to me in the light of a frightful dream;
see it.  Up-stream boats didn't generly come close to us; they go out and
see me and went for me.  He chased me round and round the place with a
see me, for although he ardently desired to relieve the sufferings of
see the moon go off watch, and the darkness begin to blanket the river.
see the sun out at one or two holes, but mostly it was big trees all
see them first-rate now.
see, all kinds of things might happen.  Well, I didn't see no way for a
see.
see; and while they was full of it, next day, back comes old Finn, and
seek amusement in society.  I abhorred the face of man.  Oh, not
seem to shake it loose and get the facts back into its place again right
seemed a sight longer than that.  I was itching in eleven different
seemed like they was looking out of caverns at you, as you may say.  His
seemed to me.
seen a light now away down to the right, on shore.  So I said I would go
seen anybody but lied one time or another, without it was Aunt Polly, or
seen, and I generally subsisted on the wild animals that crossed my
seen," he said, "the most beautiful scenes of my own country; I have
seized immediately, and charged with murder.  The first sight that was
seizure and punishment I call upon you to exert your whole power.  It
self-reproaches.  At length I gathered resolution to address him in a
self-violence I curbed the imperious voice of wretchedness, which
self.  I reckon that's a considerble sight better 'n killin' of him.  I'm
sensation of helplessness, so often felt in frightful dreams, when you
sensation of horror not to be described, I saw at the open window a
senseless by his fiendish threats; but now, for the first time, the
senseless curiosity lead you?  Would you also create for yourself and
sent abroad into the world for my destruction.  I was possessed by a
served him.  Shore's you're born, he'll turn State's evidence; now you
set back considerable, because he reckoned it was all done with
set down.  It was Packard.  Then Bill HE come out and got in.  Packard
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
set my teeth hard and got ready to try.  Just then Jim begun to breathe
set there behind a clump of bushes in about six foot of him, and kept my
setting sun, and more happy when he beheld it rise and recommence a new
shade, past the foot of the island dead still--never saying a word.
shades, which would cause a gloomy and mournful appearance were it not
shall die.  I shall no longer feel the agonies which now consume me or
shall never make me base in my own eyes.  Shall I create another like
shall not curse my maker."
shanty that hadn't been lived in for a long time, and I wondered who had
shanty, and they happened to say hardly anybody ever goes to that island
shapes of objects, a thousand fears arose in my mind.  I was anxious
shave us; but she didn't seem to be sheering off a bit.  She was a big
shaved every morning all over his thin face, and he had the thinnest kind
she didn' want to, but she could git eight hund'd dollars for me, en it
she kinder pined away and did not live long.  Poor thing, many's the time
she knowed how.  THAT'S what she done."
she let it out that Moses had been dead a considerable long time; so then
she meant--I must help other people, and do everything I could for other
she said I was a fool.  She never told me why, and I couldn't make it out
she says:
she, shall suffer; the murder I have committed because I am forever
she, who in all probability was to become a thinking and reasoning
sheet. We stayed in the wigwam and let the raft take care of itself.
shin and then the other one, and at last he let out with his left foot
shiniest hat; and there ain't a man in that town that's got as fine
ship.  I had determined, if you were going southwards, still to trust
shirt, and he was very frowzy-headed.  He came in gaping and digging one
shocks, which, like the turning of the wheel, continually renewed the
shone at intervals as the clouds passed from over them; the dark pines
shore and found myself suddenly transported back to the neighbourhood
shore of Ireland, and the sea which surrounded me told me too forcibly
shore, enjoying the transitory light, and then retired to the inn and
shore, from which it wafted the most delightful scent of flowers and
shore.  The scene was perfectly solitary; a few boats were returning
shore. Everything was dead quiet, and it looked late, and SMELT late.
shore; and as far as he could judge by the light of a few stars, it was
shot him down.  But he didn't git much chance to enjoy his luck, for
shot, and I thought if it WAS Cairo I reckoned I would die of
should be at peace and his power over me be at an end.  If he were
should often lose all self-command, all capacity of hiding the
should suspect that I postponed it, influenced by his menaces, he would
shoulder and said, "Come, sir, you must follow me to Mr. Kirwin's to
shoulder as much as a thousand times than take up a snake-skin in his
shoulder every now and then, but I didn't see nobody.  I was at Judge
shoulders and brown faces, and long black hair and black eyes.  They
shoulders. His hands was long and thin, and every day of his life he put
shove off we was a quarter of a mile below the island, and it was pretty
shoved him out o' the way.  I says to the people, why ain't this nigger
shoved out from the willow cove where she was hid.  We put out the camp
shoved the vines and branches apart and put it in; then I done the same
show like a little spark at the texas door for a second, and we knowed by
showed me, and the apparition of the monster seen from our ship,
showed--up on a hillside.  It was a village.  I closed in above the shore
showed; everybody in bed, I reckon.  We boomed along down the river,
showing on one edge of it, and she was mashing a locket with a chain to
shown me extreme kindness.  He had caused the best room in the prison
shudder with horror; at others a lively surprise, unmingled with
sick or dead.  There was a hymn book, and a lot of other books.  And
sick, and every day and every night it was her prayer to be allowed to
side and watched them. When they got abreast the head of the island they
side of the door the floor stuck out a little bit, and was flat and a
side, and the channel was down the Missouri shore at that place, so we
side.  You see, they was firing cannon over the water, trying to make my
sides; you couldn't see a break in it hardly ever, or a light.  We talked
sign of her, and we was safe, and knowed it.
silver head to it.  There warn't no frivolishness about him, not a bit,
silver tones of my Elizabeth's voice, and beheld Clerval enjoying
silver-headed cane--the awfulest old gray-headed nabob in the State.  And
simple truth--Do you not love another?
since the departure of my letter.  But you are ill; even now you
sincerely.  I never saw any woman who excited, as Elizabeth does, my
sincerity."
sink to rest.  Then the appearance of death was distant, although the
sinks into the depths of despair.  I left the house, the horrid scene
sister, without any wish that she might become your wife.  Nay, you may
situated, my only resource was to drive before the wind.  I confess
situation, but when I awoke I found that the sun had already mounted
situation, yet my courage and hopes do not desert me.  Yet it is
six or seven mile off to stow me in, where they might hunt till they
skasely, but ole King Sollermun, onless you counts dem kings dat's in a
skiff, sure enough!  I could just barely see her.  I felt ever so
skift, you see, en dey'd know 'bout whah I'd lan' on de yuther side, en
sky above, the fiend was not here: a sense of security, a feeling that
slanted so that I couldn't make very good time; so to keep from getting
slave of my creature I allowed myself to be governed by the impulses of
slave, not the master, of an impulse which I detested yet could not
slavery forever.
sleep alone that I could taste joy.  O blessed sleep!  Often, when most
sleep.  I had been awake the whole of the preceding night, my nerves
sleeping on some straw; she was young, not indeed so beautiful as her
slept; but presently he called to me in a feeble voice, and bidding me
slide off in the water.  The ridge our cavern was in was full of them.
sliding off through the grass and flowers, and I after it, trying to get
slight clue, I followed the windings of the Rhone, but vainly.  The
slip out quiet and go there and fetch it to her, and not say nothing to
slipped back to where my canoe was, a good piece below the house.  I
slippers, like a chisel, and she was leaning pensive on a tombstone on
slouch of a name to spell--right off without studying."
slough or a creek leading out of it on the other side that went miles
slow business--appeared like they warn't ever going to get started on
slunk along another piece further, then listened again; and so on, and so
small but bound close by the ties of affection and mutual misfortune.
small, but it is all that I can receive, and it shall content me.  It
smart one, and if she was to start after us herself she wouldn't set down
smash everything to pieces.  You float along down about twenty miles, and
smile on your lips when we meet, occasioned by this or any other
smiles and joy to the countenance of my father, but hardly deceived the
snag, maybe, and it was all up with him.  I was good and tired, so I laid
snake's mate was there, and bit him.
snake-skin that I found on the top of the ridge day before yesterday?
snake-skin, after all that that snake-skin done for us, will believe
snatched from her, tears, the first I had shed for many months,
snatched from me every hope of future happiness; no creature had ever
so I reck'n'd 'at by fo' in de mawnin' I'd be twenty-five mile down de
so Jim took up some of the top planks of the raft and built a snug wigwam
so full of it I didn't notice how long I was staying till the old man
so lovely as to hear the young ladies sing "The Last Link is Broken" and
so miserable a wretch; but when you speak of new ties and fresh
so slick it felt greasy, and so that would tell on it every time.  (I
so still and lonesome.
so that you shall curse the hour of your birth."
so the rain couldn't get at them.  I catched a catfish and haggled him
so thick we had to back away and go some other way.  Well, on every old
so you just put twenty miles between us, that's a good boy.  It wouldn't
so, her own self."
soft looks of compassion made her a more fit companion for one blasted
softened feelings stole into my heart and dared to whisper paradisiacal
solemn, drifting down the big, still river, laying on our backs looking
som'ers 'bove de town, but dey wuz people a-stirring yit, so I hid in de
some degree alarmed me.
some er de dad-fetchedes' ways I ever see.  Does you know 'bout dat chile
some of him; his meat's as white as snow and makes a good fry.
some other mode of action.
some pieces of limbs and such things floating down, and a sprinkling of
some power of which I was unconscious, than as the ardent desire of my
some time in timid and fearful silence, but there was something in my
some time or other."
somebody laying down in it, because people often done that to fool folks,
somebody prayed that this bread would find me, and here it has gone and
somebody stole de wood-flat dat night, en nex day de one-laigged nigger
somebody that was going to die; and the wind was trying to whisper
somebody."  That was so--I couldn't get around that noway.  That was
somehow. I was the only one that could swim, so I made a dash for it, and
someone, a friend, is come to visit you."
something and fell at his length on the ground. His companions came up
something on him.  I waited, and it seemed a good while, everything was
something struck me.  I says, now I reckon the widow or the parson or
something to me, and I couldn't make out what it was, and so it made the
something, but they said, 'What, in such a night and such a current?
something.  I knowed mighty well that a drownded man don't float on his
sometimes I'm the freight and passengers.  I ain't as rich as old Jim
sometimes desired to declare itself to the whole world, and my manners
sometimes felt a wish to console him, but when I looked upon him, when
sometimes they haunted even my waking hours, and persuade myself that
sometimes wishing to see you, sometimes resolved to quit the world and
sometimes you gwyne to git sick; but every time you's gwyne to git well
son, gave a peculiar interest to every part of the city which they
soon a splendid young man come galloping down the road, setting his horse
soon as de ole folks 'uz out'n de way.
soon slept profoundly.  But sleep did not afford me respite from
sorts of other things, and a lot of books, and a spyglass, and three
sought erroneous methods to remedy the incurable ill.  He wished me to
sought my own apartment. I was alone; none were near me to dissipate
soul have been drunk up by the interest for my guest which this tale
soul.  What his feelings were whom I pursued I cannot know.  Sometimes,
sound asleep, but was uneasy.  He groaned and moaned and thrashed around
sound come faint over the water but clear--eleven.  When I struck the
sound of "boom!" away up the river.  I rouses up, and rests on my elbow
south!  Covered with ice, it was only to be distinguished from land by
southwards together.  This letter in a degree recalled me to life, and
spared to discover the villain."
spec he'll go 'way, en den agin he spec he'll stay.  De bes' way is to
specked the water, and now and then the gentle breeze wafted the sound
speech to a person just saved, on the very edge of death; but I felt
spelling-book. She worked me middling hard for about an hour, and then
spend our first days of happiness beside the beautiful lake near which
spider went crawling up my shoulder, and I flipped it off and it lit in
spire of Evian shone under the woods that surrounded it and the range
spirits of the dead, and on you, wandering ministers of vengeance, to
spoke English, and I therefore addressed them in that language.  "My
spondulicks and as much more on top of it.  Says I--"
spread of lights at two o'clock that still night.  There warn't a sound
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
squeeze in, d' you hear?"
stand it I could.
stand now--so don't gimme no sass.  I've been in town two days, and I
standing up out of the middle of the river, big and dark and solid, like
stars and drift logs and rafts that come down, and then went to bed;
stars or feel the winds play on my cheeks.
stars.  I looked away down-stream, and seen a black speck on the water.
started out, after breakfast, feeling worried and shaky, and wondering
state lasted but for an instant; the scream was repeated, and I rushed
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
stately deer were all novelties to us.
stateroom, he says:
status with the IRS.
stay here all night.  Take off your bonnet."
stay so, you soon get over it.
stay still in one place.  It hadn't ever come home to me before, what
stay.
steady without ever smiling, and says:
steal his children--children that belonged to a man I didn't even know; a
steam, and booming once in a while as they went.  I crossed over to that
steamboat's wheel away down, coming around the point; so we come back.
still alive to feel this misery and horror."
still glimmers in his eyes, but he is exhausted, and when suddenly
still. This miserableness went on as much as six or seven minutes; but it
stirring up some way.  I said I reckoned I would slip over the river and
stole some of his daughter's old clothes and cleared out, and I had been
stone that guided me and instigated my fury.  "My reign is not yet
stop to think.  He said she would slap down a line, and if she couldn't
storms.  It would get so dark that it looked all blue-black outside, and
strange chances that have lately occurred.  You were thrown, by some
stranger and get the wet clothes off from him and dress him up in some of
stranger, and I was also disconcerted on perceiving the frowning and
strawberries, ripe and prime; and green summer grapes, and green
strawbries."
stream of the river was too gentle to aid us.  Our journey here lost
streamed from my eyes, and I resolved not to fall before my enemy
strength should not be exhausted by too much exertion.  But the
strength was gone.  I was a mere skeleton, and fever night and day
striking and grabbing at the air with his hands, and screaming and saying
stroke or two, I says:
strong a hold of your mind that I wish to dissipate.  Tell me,
struck for an island, and hid the raft, and sunk the skiff, and turned in
struck out a quarter of a mile or more towards the middle of the river,
stuck it on the back side, and slung the axe in the corner.  Then I took
stuck.  I couldn't answer that.  So I reckoned I wouldn't bother no more
study and laborious disquisition.  I had heard of some discoveries
stuff to eat; and sometimes I lifted a chicken that warn't roosting
stuff, as if I'd been gone away?"
style.  It didn't have an iron latch on the front door, nor a wooden one
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
subjects so interesting to my heart, to raise my desponding spirits;
submission of abject slavery.  I will revenge my injuries; if I cannot
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
subsequent blight of all kindly feeling by the loathing and scorn which
succeeding.
such a craft as that.
such a sweat about a Testament.  So I give it a shake, and out drops a
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
such symptoms have been shown early, suspect the other of fraud
such violent repugnance."
sudden change.  The sun might shine or the clouds might lower, but
suddenly extinguished, and I lost all trace of him more utterly than I
suddenly gave way; he was unable to rise from his bed, and in a few
suffered him to depart, and he had directed his course towards the
sufferings will satisfy my everlasting hatred."
sufficient allurements to induce us to prolong our journey as far north
sufficient strength."  Saying this, he endeavoured to spring from the
sugar there was, and all the ammunition; I took the wadding; I took the
suggested to me the duty of obeying the dying request of my friend in
summer-time because it's cool.  If you notice, most folks don't go
summit of a sloping ice mountain, and one, sinking under his fatigue,
sun rose higher, I lay down on the grass and was overpowered by a deep
sun-bonnet, for I didn't want no blinders on then.  When I was about the
sunrise reflected in the Rhine.  And you, my friend, would be far more
supper.  Then I set out a line to catch some fish for breakfast.
support.  The magistrate observed me with a keen eye and of course drew
suppose that all these characters were trying to talk alike and not
surely find other and perhaps more dreadful means of revenge.
surely the spirits who assist my vengeance will endow me with
surmounting all, the beautiful Mont Blanc and the assemblage of snowy
surprising accident, on this shore, renowned for its hospitality,
surrounded by a crowd, I thought it politic to rouse all my strength,
susceptible of love and sympathy, and when wrenched by misery to vice
swallowed up and lost.  I was hurried away by fury; revenge alone
swallowed up in the immeasurable waters that roared and buffeted around
swaps around, and the things go better.
swear to me, Walton, that he shall not escape, that you will seek him
sweep, and then the pilot sticks his head out and laughs, and thinks he's
sweet face, but there was so many arms it made her look too spidery,
swords and guns, and get ready.  He never could go after even a
sworn eternal revenge; you shall be my first victim.'
sympathy and compassion; he drew a chair close to mine and addressed me
sympathy and was silent when I would have given the world to have
sympathy!  My life will flow quietly away, and in my dying moments I
table-cloth after sundown.  And he said if a man owned a beehive and that
tail-coat with brass buttons on it.  He carried a mahogany cane with a
take a res' b'fo' dey started acrost, so by de talk I got to know all
take the raft up the stream, of course.  There warn't no way but to wait
take to the woods when I run away.  I guessed I wouldn't stay in one
taken of its society, the means of materially assisting the progress of
taking all this trouble for that gang, for not many would a done it.  I
taking him to, so he went head over heels over the tub of salt pork and
tale that ever imagination formed.  My thoughts and every feeling of my
tale; at others, his voice broken, yet piercing, uttered with
talk all kinds of languages, and knowed everything.  And that ain't the
talk in his life before.  Just see what a difference it made in him the
talk without money.  I told him I had an old slick counterfeit quarter
talking I looked up, and she was looking at me pretty curious and smiling
talking about the murder, but the captain broke in and says:
talking and letting on to know all about such things, Jim would happen in
tall as a tree and as big around as a church."
tangible happiness might soon dissipate into an airy dream and leave no
tangle-headed old fool, Jim."
task of destruction.  This may not be; cease to argue the point, for I
tearing in, with the thunder and lightning a-ripping around and the smoke
tears come, en I could a got down on my knees en kiss yo' foot, I's so
teeth, and her monstrous bows and guards hanging right over us.  There
tell I hears it agin."
tell me what new scene of death has been acted, and whose murder I am
tell my uncle Abner Moore.  He lives at the upper end of the town, she
tell no lies."
tell you it made me all over trembly and feverish, too, to hear him,
temperance and such things till the old man cried, and said he'd been a
ten mile further up the river.  Who told you this was Goshen?"
ten) and all about pap and what a hard lot he was, and what a hard lot I
ten-thousandth portion of the anguish that was mine during the
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
terrible reveries.
terrible still.  He was laying over by the corner. By and by he raised up
terrible to reflect that the lives of all these men are endangered
terror, because at every new incident your fortitude was to be called
texas, and found it, and then scrabbled along forwards on the skylight,
texas.  Then in there I see a man stretched on the floor and tied hand
than trusting to luck to get far enough off before they missed me; you
than we could help, and then talk mighty low.  The lightning showed us
than what I was.
thankful.  In another second I would a been aboard of her, but just then
thankful. En all you wuz thinkin' 'bout wuz how you could make a fool uv
that
that I felt a few sensations of terror.  I had no compass with me and
that I may again feel myself somewhat at home, which I cannot do in
that I might have him within my grasp to wreak a great and signal
that I now ask thee to pardon me?  I, who irretrievably destroyed thee
that I was capable of taking pleasure in the idea of such a journey,
that I was deceived by no vision and that Clerval, my friend and
that I was not neglected, but his visits were short and with long
that I'd found when I was exploring; so we started and soon got to it,
that KIND."
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
that class.  The lines of her face were hard and rude, like that of
that country.  Strange niggers would stand with their mouths open and
that gazes on your misery.  Beware, for I am fearless and therefore
that group of labourers coming from among their vines; and that village
that he shall not live--swear that he shall not triumph over my
that he shall suffer punishment proportionate to his crimes.  But I
that hurried me on to the creation of my hideous enemy, and I called to
that if he didn't quit using around there she would make trouble for him.
that irremediable ruin.
that it shall not.  Do not return to your families with the stigma of
that kind.  Pap always said it warn't no harm to borrow things if you was
that made me, that with the companion you bestow I will quit the
that no physical debility might be construed into apprehension or
that of man; I do not destroy the lamb and the kid to glut my appetite;
that on which he rests in pleasure for something new, which again
that overcame me.
that place and didn't quite touch ground.  If you stood four or five foot
that preyed there and entered with seeming earnestness into the plans
that terrible moment without shuddering and agony.  The examination,
that that the rascals had missed their boat, and was beginning to
that the fiend should live and be triumphant, my rage and vengeance
that the robbers hid in the cave, and it made us rich.  We got six
that the world-minded teach us to look for only in the imagination. But
that threat as binding him to peace in the meantime, for as if to show
that warn't buried was more likely to go a-ha'nting around than one that
that warn't no good because the brass showed through the silver a little,
that was making over four mile an hour.  We catched fish and talked, and
that was making the trouble for me.  Well, I fought along, and directly I
that went a-slipping along, black and still, hundreds of yards out from
that were beginning to rise.  Suddenly a heavy storm of rain descended.
that which I feel. Blasted as thou wert, my agony was still superior to
that won the suit--which he would naturally do, of course.  Anybody
that wreck if it was his last act.  And wouldn't he throw style into it?
that you could float by in ten minutes.  It had the big timber of a
that's the way a woman most always does, but a man always does t'other
that, Huckleberry--set up straight;" and pretty soon she would say,
that, because I wanted him and me to be together.
that, with the strong north wind that had arisen during the night, it
that, you know, and so you had confidence.  Sometimes he smiled, and it
that.
that.  We busted it up, and chased the children up the hollow; but we
that?"
the Elizabeth whom I had loved and cherished.  The murderous mark of
the Grangerfords stayed on their horses and capered around the old man,
the Orkneys as the scene of my labours.  It was a place fitted for such
the State six months, and he hadn't been there that long yet.  There,
the actual scene in which I was engaged, my spirits became unequal; I
the affections of a sensitive being and become linked to the chain of
the amphitheatre of mountains which forms its eastern boundary.  The
the answer a long ways off, and tries to follow it, but I couldn't do it,
the appearances of the sky.  "This is what it is to live," he cried;
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
the ashes of a camp fire that was still smoking.
the attempt the boat would be instantly filled with water.  Thus
the band, whichever boy was ordered to kill that person and his family
the base of the mountain, where the priest and his mistress were
the beauties of his native country and asked us if those were not
the beloved dead flit before me, and I hasten to their arms.  Farewell,
the bend.  Is your man white or black?"
the benefit of mankind. And now, behold, with the first imagination of
the best cretur!--I most wish 't it had been me, I do."
the blue lake and rapid Rhone, that had been so dear to me in early
the bottle, but it was broke.  There was a seedy old chest, and an old
the bottom.  What a divine day!  How happy and serene all nature
the boys did.  We hadn't robbed nobody, hadn't killed any people, but
the branches to tossing their arms as if they was just wild; and next,
the bread and watching the ferry-boat, and very well satisfied.  And then
the bushes so thick.  We tramped and clumb around all over it, and by and
the candle; and before I could budge it was all shriveled up.  I didn't
the canoe and run back to the stern, and grabbed the paddle and set her
the canoe as quick as I could, and then went creeping through the woods
the canoe to smoke a pipe and lay out a plan.  I says to myself, they'll
the carelessest and foolishest things a body can do.  Old Hank Bunker
the case, I dare not any longer postpone writing what, during your
the city had yet in itself sufficient beauty to obtain our admiration.
the clear waters, where we can distinguish every pebble that lies at
the cold increased in a degree almost too severe to support.  The
the commission of a dreadful crime and avoided with shuddering anxiety
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
the creature of whom you speak appears to have powers which would put
the currrent was tearing by them so swift.
the dark Rhine rushing beneath; and on the sudden turn of a promontory,
the day was coming.  So I took my gun and slipped off towards where I had
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
the desired intelligence was dilatory and unsatisfactory; besides, I
the difficulty of my labours.  One inscription that he left was in
the disgrace of appearing publicly as a criminal, as the case was not
the door of my laboratory.  The remains of the half-finished creature,
the door opened, and the wretch whom I dreaded appeared.
the door opened.  One of the men stuck his head out only about a couple
the drift of the current fetched me in at the bottom of the town.  I tied
the earth than have consented to this miserable marriage.  But, as if
the edge of the cut bank, but there was a stiff current, and the raft
the end of it yet.  He said he druther see the new moon over his left
the existence of the monstrous image which  I had endued with the
the family couldn't before THEY died.  I can't; and here you're
the feelings of happiness and affection with which my whole being
the fields that surround it to meditate in what manner I should apply
the fiend's grasp was on her neck, and the breath had ceased to issue
the fire of love that burns my heart, that if you grant my prayer,
the flashes come.
the flight of an eagle, and quickly lost among the undulations of the
the folds of her dress.  She moved again, and I fled.
the frozen ocean, and purchasing a plentiful stock of provisions, I
the gloom and relieve me from the sickening oppression of the most
the ground where the light sifted down through the leaves, and the
the ground.  I roused him out and says:
the hand of a man that's started in on a new life, and'll die before
the hatchet, and covered up the raft with them so she looked like there
the head of the island, and then started across.  I took off the
the hooks, and it was a fair fit.  I put on the sun-bonnet and tied it
the horizon when he departed.  I knew that I ought to hasten my descent
the house.  Tom said he slipped Jim's hat off of his head and hung it on
the human mind is by its structure peculiarly susceptible.
the idea of an immediate union with my Elizabeth was one of horror and
the idea of returning if set free.  Yet could I, in justice, or even in
the impotence of anger.  "Shall each man," cried he, "find a wife for
the information they might give me on the subject in which my interest
the interest arising from beautiful scenery, but we arrived in a few
the justice due both to him and my fellow creatures demanded of me that
the knowledge he seemed to possess concerning me.  I suppose some
the lake.
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
the least bit in the world and said thank you, and so they drank, all
the left of it--and not gaining on it much either, for I was flying
the left-hand bank.  I begun to suspicion something.  So did Jim.  I
the life and spirit to the conversations he held with his enemy. "Since
the light of the moon the daemon at the casement.  A ghastly grin
the lines and set them again, and begun to get ready for dinner.
the love of another will destroy the cause of my crimes, and I shall
the magistrate was intimidated.  "You are mistaken," said he.  "I will
the man was by my side.
the melancholy of his niece the diffidence of a bride.
the middle of it for the sun, and you could see the pendulum swinging
the mode of the murder had been described.  I was accordingly
the moment; and my present sensations strongly intimated that the fiend
the monster would depart forever.  Or (so my fond fancy imaged) some
the most miserable of mortals.  Persecuted and tortured as I am and
the needle up to it; hold the needle still and poke the thread at it;
the nigger pretty soon now, and maybe they can scare it out of him."
the oath on, and read it.  It swore every boy to stick to the band, and
the old man with a shotgun, maybe, but he didn't know no other way.
the owner and the mate and the pilot and watchman and head deck-hand; and
the palace themselves 'stead of fooling them away like that.  And what's
the place over as much as a hundred times; well, I was most all the time
the poor animals that conveyed me had with incredible toil gained the
the power of his eloquence; when he speaks, they no longer despair; he
the presence of the magistrate and witnesses, passed like a dream from
the print of his huge step on the white plain.  To you first entering
the productions of man could always interest my heart and communicate
the raft good.  Then he worked all day fixing things in bundles, and
the reason why.  Say, how much you got in your pocket?  I want it."
the remembrance of some story.  We saw Tilbury Fort and remembered the
the right kind.
the river.
the road, my boy?"
the room in which I was, all flashed across my memory and I groaned
the rustic who sought to destroy the saviour of his child? Nay, these
the safety of my little skiff.  I found that the wind was northeast and
the same boat in which I had just landed.  A woman deposed that she
the sea that very night; and in the meantime I sat upon the beach,
the seal to my fate.
the shore I felt those cares and fears revive which soon were to clasp
the shore, I might have put into the harbour ignorant of the distance
the sign for the Gang to get together), and then he said he had got
the sky towards the under side of the world, like rolling empty barrels
the snakes clear away amongst the bushes; for I warn't going to let Jim
the spare room, and in the night some time he got powerful thirsty and
the spot where he had disappeared, and we followed the track with
the spot. Presently I heard the sound of footsteps along the passage;
the table in the middle of the room was a kind of a lovely crockery
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
the texas and the pilot-house; and do you reckon anybody's going to resk
the things, and by and by I could do pretty well in them, only Jim said I
the thunder of the ground sea, which threatened my destruction.  But
the trial; but then there was ways to put it off a long time, and Judge
the truck. Then we'll wait.  Now I say it ain't a-goin' to be more'n two
the upper berth, cornered, and sorry I come.  Then they stood there, with
the voice of conscience and heeded the stings of remorse before you had
the wantonness of power and cruelty.  Pitiless as you have been towards
the wash of the current against the old dead brush and trash that hung
the water a long ways up--about abreast the ferry.  And there was the
the water.  When we got pretty close to the cross-hall door there was the
the waves.  I hailed the darkness that shut Ireland from my sight, and
the whole tide of his incredulity returned.  He, however, answered
the wide Atlantic and feel all the tortures of starvation or be
the widow couldn't ever find me any more.  I judged I would saw out and
the widow didn't like it; but now I took to it again because pap hadn't
the widow made her ease up.  I couldn't stood it much longer.  Then for
the widow's garden, stooping down so as the branches wouldn't scrape our
the widow, or maybe Mary.  Aunt Polly--Tom's Aunt Polly, she is--and
the wigwam would keep it from being seen.  We made an extra steering-oar,
the willow branches, and there it was--a skiff, away across the water.  I
the wind from blowing through the chinks and putting the candle out.  I
the wind was unfavourable, and the rain fell in torrents.  However, it
the windows:  white, with pictures painted on them of castles with vines
the women?  No; nobody ever saw anything in the books like that.  You
the woods most of the time when he was around.  Well, about this time he
the woods when I run off, I'd go down the river about fifty mile and camp
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
the world a demoniacal enemy?  Peace, peace!  Learn my miseries and do
the wreck again just in time, and we fetched the stabboard derrick, and
their countenances expressed a breathless terror, but the horror of
their feelings and passions, would indeed be degraded if such a wretch
their feelings or plans with the good humour expected from a guest; and
their hands on the ledge of the berth, and talked.  I couldn't see them,
their heads pointed the same direction?"
their hiding-places to seek for prey.  The rivers were covered with
them and hacked a cross in their breasts, which was the sign of the band.
them first-rate, but they couldn't see me.  Then the captain sung out:
them for me; but utter carelessness was visible in the first, and the
them he could not sum up the hours and months of misery which I
them lots of times myself, and they wouldn't sting me.
them over with red water-paint that they call Spanish-brown, same as they
them pap was behind, coming along with a trading-scow, and was a green
them to build a palace forty miles long out of di'monds, and fill it full
them to me almost as imposing and interesting as truth.
them when she was alone, or they wouldn't give her no peace.  She showed
them, and their hair down their backs.  They all asked me questions, and
them, for they never cared much for raftsmen; so now she was churning
them; and just as we was leaving I found a tolerable good curry-comb, and
them; sometimes it was the watery, clouded eyes of the monster, as I
themselves.  We visited the tomb of the illustrious Hampden and the
then I heard a voice wail out and say:
then Miss Watson would sell him South, sure.  Well, he was right; he was
then another, and this time I was right.  It was the raft.
then cold.  They instantly carried it to the cottage of an old woman
then enjoy reality in the arms of my dearest friends.  What agonizing
then he would see who was who.
then my lot on earth will be fulfilled and I may die."
then she hung fire on a rhyme for the dead person's name, which was
then they jailed him, and next day they had him before court, and jailed
then, and I warn't right down certain whether I was glad I started or
then, really existence!  I cannot doubt it, yet I am lost in surprise
there ain't no better way to put in time when you are lonesome; you can't
there and looked at me; never said nothing.  Then I says:
there more than a century and a half before.  It was here that Charles
there on the wreck.  We hustled it on to the raft in a pile, and I told
there the sky was beginning to get a little gray in the east; so we
there warn't any good-luck signs.  He says:
there warn't anybody at the church, except maybe a hog or two, for there
there warn't but one stateroom betwixt me and the cross-hall of the
there was devils a-hold of him.  He wore out by and by, and laid still a
there was nice split-bottom chairs, and perfectly sound, too--not bagged
there was sick folks, maybe; and the stars over us was sparkling ever so
there! heave her head to stabboard!"  I heard that just as plain as if
there, anyway; and he said there was A-rabs there, too, and elephants and
there.
there.  There was trouble 'bout something, and then a lawsuit to settle
there; but when they told me there was a State in this country where
there; everybody was asleep.
therefore acquiesced, but she was filled with disquiet at the idea of
therefore, that if my immediate union with my cousin would conduce
therefore, whether you object to an immediate solemnization of the
these fellows going to be ransomed if we don't know how to do it to them?
these fits were seldom interrupted but by paroxysms of anguish and
these impaired the sacred name Of Stephen Dowling Bots.
these mountains I should scarcely regret Switzerland and the Rhine."
these sensations; I thought that as I could not sympathize with him, I
these was vacant when I arrived.  This I hired.  It contained but two
these were all to me, I should have wept to die; now it is my only
these words only drew deep groans from me.  Sometimes, indeed, I felt a
these words:  "Prepare!  Your toils only begin; wrap yourself in furs
they all went in a big parlor that had a new rag carpet on the floor, and
they beheld the Mediterranean from the hills of Asia, and hailed with
they bowed and said, "Our duty to you, sir, and madam;" and THEY bowed
they confirm me in a determination of not creating you a companion in
they found that the clothes were not wet and even that the body was not
they had to live, and how the rats was as free as if they owned the
they must a gone up-town to get a dog and so they lost all that time, or
they still lived!  At such moments vengeance, that burned within me,
they stopped and I stopped.  One of them says:
they used to was, and how they didn't know but they'd made a mistake
they warn't real because you could see where pieces had got chipped off
they were chilly and returned to their warm firesides.  Why, that
they were the expressive eyes of Henry, languishing in death, the dark
they'd let that nigger vote, I drawed out.  I says I'll never vote agin.
thick, so I looked over my shoulder to dodge the bullet, and twice I seen
thine, for the bitter sting of remorse will not cease to rankle in my
thing into an infant Sunday-school, just out of spite.  I said, all
thing that had some good in it.  And she took snuff, too; of course that
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
things, and feeling rested and ruther comfortable and satisfied.  I could
things.  I said, why couldn't we see them, then?  He said if I warn't so
think of something cheerful, but it warn't no use.  I felt so lonesome I
think we was passing the foot of an island and coming into the same old
think?"
thinking.  I was pretty near certain I'd seen smoke over there, about the
this 'n 'll come out all right.  What's the matter with 'em?"
this a free country?"
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
this and that their return to their native country was apparently
this divine river that I never before saw equalled.  Look at that
this every day, Jim."
this horrid apparition, informed me of his path; sometimes he himself,
this last overwhelming event?  Mine has been a tale of horrors; I have
this might happen.  But through the whole period during which I was the
this peopled earth.
this picture over the head of the bed in her room, and every time her
this purpose I will preserve my life; to execute this dear revenge will
this retrospect of my sufferings, I also felt considerable surprise at
this task; and now that you are returning to England, you will have
this they bull right up the channel against the whole river.
this thing was that I was doing.  But now it did; and it stayed with me,
this time worse than ever.  The rain poured down, and never a light
this town and inform me where I am?"
this town of Goshen.
this way and that for a long time.  At last I got so sleepy I couldn't
this will prove impracticable; and thus, while every proper measure is
this.  They insisted, therefore, that I should engage with a solemn
thoo de bushes."
those talents that might be useful to my fellow creatures.  When I
those who pile the glacier or retire to the inaccessible peaks of the
though he was a little bigger than me.  He hadn't on anything but a
though they was only lath and broomsticks, and you might scour at them
thought I was gone; but I slid out of the jacket quick as lightning, and
thought I would take jest one little cat-nap.
thought a minute, and says to myself, hold on; s'pose you'd a done right
thought and misery; my dreams presented a thousand objects that scared
thought it was a good idea, so we took a smoke on it and waited.
thought that my former exclamation was a momentary return of delirium,
thoughts and endeavoured to arrive at some conclusion.  Alas!  To me
thoughts and neither saw the descent of the evening star nor the golden
thoughts within me.  I wept bitterly, and clasping my hands in agony, I
thoughts, now exulting in my powers, now burning with the idea of their
thousand dollars apiece--all gold.  It was an awful sight of money when
thousand things.  Well, I couldn't stay up there forever; so at last I
thousand times more malignant than her mate and delight, for its own
threat of the fiend--"I WILL BE WITH YOU ON YOUR WEDDING-NIGHT!" Such
threat returned; nor can you wonder that, omnipotent as the fiend had
threaten every moment to crush my vessel.  The brave fellows whom I
three nights coming the thirty miles.  I traveled nights, and hid
three, and Bob and Tom poured a spoonful of water on the sugar and the
thrill all connected with me with horror.  I was aware also that I
throat cut, and then have his carcass burnt up and the ashes scattered
throbbings and relieve me from the mighty weight of anguish that bears
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
through me.  If we are lost, my mad schemes are the cause.
through the high board fence.  There was an inch of new snow on the
through the texas-hall we see a light! and all in the same second we seem
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
till I got a good piece below the house and then dumped him into the
till I was afeard I had made a mistake coming to her to find out what was
till I was black and blue if I didn't raise some money for him.  I
till they had set down.  Then Tom and Bob went to the sideboard where the
till you rotted, and then they warn't worth a mouthful of ashes more than
tilted back a little.  I set the candle down.  I noticed the window was
time I found something at last; I found an old rusty wood-saw without any
time I slept soundly. I do not know how long I remained in this
time and there warn't a sound, only I thought I could hear my heart.  The
time comes."
time en mos' git drownded?  Now ain' dat so, boss--ain't it so?  You
time he danced around and says, "Dah's Cairo!" it went through me like a
time some ice-rock concealed it with its intervening crags.  I indeed
time that the body had been found, I was perfectly tranquil as to the
time to before.  I begun to think how dreadful it was, even for
time, but he never did, and it was the still places between the whoops
time, but this was with me a secondary object; I was principally
time.  I didn't want to go back no more.  I had stopped cussing, because
time; and towards daylight he crawled out again, drunk as a fiddler, and
time; and when I return, I hope it will be with a lighter heart, more
time; he must shove right over to town and sell.  So he locked me in and
times and thrashed me, but I went to school just the same, and dodged him
times seven is thirty-five, and I don't reckon I could ever get any
times--they don't have no school now.  Do you own a dog?  I've got a
tired me like dis one."
to Jim, and Jim told it to me.  He says:
to assist him, and by the light of their lantern they found that he had
to be FETCHED home--and one of 'em was dead, and another died the next
to be getting away before the old man got back, but of course I didn't
to be heard amid the pauses of the nightly wind; I have seen the
to be moving along.  I'll fetch Goshen before daylight."
to be one of the roughest Sundays I had run across yet.
to be prepared for me (wretched indeed was the best); and it was he who
to be replaced by others; I looked upon the sea; it was to be my grave.
to be scared of him all the time, he tanned me so much.  I reckoned I was
to bear this injustice with patience.
to begin next Sunday; but all the boys said it would be wicked to do it
to church only when they've got to; but a hog is different.
to destruction beings who possessed exquisite sensations, happiness,
to distraction and reverie.
to do?  Do you reckon YOU can learn 'em anything?  Not by a good deal.
to do?  I said, paddle ashore the first time a light showed, and tell
to eat as quick as you can, poor thing; and one of you girls go and wake
to feel his own worth and the greatness of his fall.
to get through.  I couldn't get up the chimbly; it was too narrow.  The
to get under in blazing weather and rainy, and to keep the things dry.
to getting lynched.  But before night they changed around and judged it
to git his money back a hund'd times.  So Balum he tuck en give de ten
to go somewheres; all I wanted was a change, I warn't particular.  She
to have force enough to attend, now roused himself; his eyes sparkled,
to have them when she was alive, and nobody ever slept there.  The old
to hear low voices in yonder!
to him.  But the beauty and regularity of the new town of Edinburgh,
to his bed.  The ice cracked behind us and was driven with force
to his insatiate revenge.  And then I thought again of his words--"I
to it, "Let up on me--it ain't too late yet--I'll paddle ashore at the
to its place; this was to build a fire on in sloppy weather or chilly;
to know who killed him.  Some think old Finn done it himself."
to leave there.  I had tried to get out of that cabin many a time, but I
to like it so well at the widow's, where you had to wash, and eat on a
to look at that spare room they had to take soundings before they could
to me to make me a requisition which, in justice, I could not refuse.
to me which led me to consider the effects of what I was now doing.
to me; the threat I had heard weighed on my thoughts, but I did not
to meet and grapple with him.
to mind about that school, because he was going to lay for me and lick me
to post the remainder of our way, for the wind was contrary and the
to quiver, and my heart to palpitate.
to rage and despair.  They were dead, and I lived; their murderer also
to raise them lest they should encounter the object which I so much
to reflect on it.
to relate the destruction of the best hope and the purest creature on
to relate, in proper detail, to my recollection.
to restrain me from committing some dreadful act of violence.
to say, "Immediately upon your being taken ill, all the papers that
to see what I could find out.  I hadn't got far when I hear a man say:
to see who was aboard when she come along, because she would come in
to share their intercourse.  I had unchained an enemy among them whose
to shove for sho' if dey come aboard.  Den I was gwyne to swim to de raf'
to slide out and sleep in the woods sometimes, and so that was a rest to
to sucking at the jug again.  His foot swelled up pretty big, and so did
to the Illinois edge of the island to see what luck I could have, and I
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
to the brush, Bud 'lowed he could out-run him; so they had it, nip and
to the door and through the woods down to the river and dumped it in, and
to the sea of ice.  A few days before we left Paris on our way to
to the table and hacked into his throat with the axe, and laid him down
to the widow and be respectable.  So I went back.
to this.  I lay for two months on the point of death; my ravings, as I
to tie to, for it wouldn't do to try to run in a fog; but when I paddled
to travel on.  For my own part I was not sorry.  I had now neglected my
to you that you could see her nigger go off right under your eyes and
to you--the six thousand and all."
to you.  I was oppressed by fatigue and hunger and far too unhappy to
to-morrow--I want it."
toes stuck through, and he worked them now and then.  His hat was laying
together with gestures that at any other time might have produced in me
together, and Jim could stand up straight in it.  It was cool in there.
together.  There was a place on my ankle that got to itching, but I
together; so all you have to do is to catch them and sell them to the
tokens of their miserable fare.  Vegetables and bread, when they
told him to take de thirty-five dollars when de en' er de year come; but
told me that my friend had certainly not many hours to live.
tomb!  Of what materials was I made that I could thus resist so many
tone expressed her entire indifference; she addressed me in English,
too tardily, a dead hare; eat and be refreshed.  Come on, my enemy; we
too, and they warn't so raspy on me.  Living in a house and sleeping in a
too, because one of the others might get broke on a snag or something.
too, piled up perfectly exact, on each corner of the table.  One was a
too.  He said that that would help.  Then I slid out quiet and throwed
too; but Jim didn't want to talk about that.  I says:
took advantage of the moment of darkness and cast my basket into the
took my passage in the same ship, but he escaped, I know not how.
took the bag to where it used to stand, and ripped a hole in the bottom
took the skiff, and started off towing the raft about half-past three.  I
took up quarters there.  I slipped up and peeped in at the window.  There
top stood above water six or seven inches--a solid, level floor.  We
tore to pieces the thing on which I was engaged.  The wretch saw me
tore up whirlwinds of water and gave you an idea of what the
tormented; and at others I felt the fingers of the monster already
torture such as you cannot even imagine.
torture?
tortured as I have been by anxious suspense; yet I hope to see peace in
touches.  Nobody could spread himself like Tom Sawyer in such a thing as
towards England and towards you, I will not despond.
towards Illinois.  The cavern was as big as two or three rooms bunched
towards daylight we got it all settled satisfactory, and concluded to
towards land, but I sailed away from them.  I felt as if I was about
towards me, I put out my pipe and went to where I fished out the bread,
towards me.  As soon as he beheld my form, he placed his hands before
towards my friend, but he was sunk in languor and almost deprived of
towards the best method of eradicating the remains of my melancholy,
towards the corpse of my wife.  I rushed towards the window, and
towards the north; a breeze sprang from the west, and on the 11th the
towards the valley, as I should soon be encompassed in darkness; but my
towhead or something; I got to set still and float, and yet it's mighty
towheads; and I only tried to chase them a little while, anyway, because
town en say you's killed.  Dese las' skifts wuz full o' ladies en genlmen
town painted on the bottom half of the glass front, and a round place in
town where the court was held.  Mr. Kirwin charged himself with every
town.
town.  I was ready to sink from fatigue and hunger, but being
town. There warn't no bed in the parlor, nor a sign of a bed; but heaps
trace but deep and everlasting regret.  Preparations were made for the
traded fish and game for whisky, and fetched it home and got drunk and
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
tragedy.  Through my father's exertions a part of the inheritance of
train of thought; a thousand feelings pressed upon me, and I wept
tranquil voice, suppressing every mark of agitation; then, like a
travellers in deserts and barbarous countries are wont to meet.  How I
traverse the sea of ice and inhabit caves and dens where no man would
traversed the northern highlands and fixed on one of the remotest of
traversed the snows with inconceivable speed.  I know not whether the
treachery and fiend-like malice.  Hear him not; call on the names of
tremble; you are unfit for agitation of any kind."
tribute to the unexampled worth of Henry, but they soothe my heart,
trickling in my veins and tingling in the extremities of my limbs. This
tried for a second or two to brace up and out with it, but I warn't man
tried to learn you your manners, she tried to be good to you every way
triumph; clapping my hands, I exclaimed, `I too can create desolation;
triumphed over my selfish despair.  It was necessary that I should
trouble to give the place a hunt.  I hain't seen any smoke sence, so I
troubled by the winds, their tumult is but as the play of a lively
troubles laid him low, Young Stephen Dowling Bots.
truck and eight dollars besides.  I wish we could have some bad luck like
truck? But you got a gun, hain't you?  Den we kin git sumfn better den
true, but uninterrupted by any sudden shock of misery.  If I returned,
truth, yet I own to you that the letters of Felix and Safie, which he
try to learn to do right; a body that don't get STARTED right when he's
try to not do it any more.  That is just the way with some people.  They
trying to hocus me again.  What's your real name, now?"
tub some, too, all along, here and there.  He hopped around the cabin
tuck, for five mile or more, the old man a-gaining all the time; so at
turn with disgust from him to the superior beauty of man; she might
turnip-cart but he must have the swords and guns all scoured up for it,
two arms folded across her breast, and two arms stretched out in front,
two drunks and one delirium tremens.  That was always his word.  I judged
two-story, and tilted over considerable.  We paddled out and got aboard
un it to you, en de yuther half to de yuther woman.  Dat's de way
unable to arrange my ideas sufficiently to understand the full
unaccountable a manner and placed, as it were, by some fiend across
unavoidable.  But death was no evil to me if the loss of Elizabeth were
unbarring and unbolting.  I put my hand on the door and pushed it a
unbounded knowledge and a quick and piercing apprehension.  His
unchecked by the memory of my unhappy promise, rose proportionably.  My
uncle Hornback--"
uncontrollable passion.
uncouth and distorted in its proportions.  As he hung over the coffin,
under a ban--as if I had no right to claim their sympathies--as if
under his head nights.  He had a gun which he had stole, I reckon, and we
under my chin, and then for a body to look in and see my face was like
undergone?  No; I am not so selfish.  Yet, when I am dead, if he should
understand that they was in just as much trouble now as Jim Turner was.
understanding; I had forgotten the particulars of what had happened and
understood, a solitary cell had been my habitation.
undertake my pilgrimage, to endure the hardships that I have
undertaker--the undertaker never got in ahead of Emmeline but once, and
undertaking or design, fraught with extensive utility to my fellow
undertaking whose immediate necessity began to appear less absolute to
unearthly occupation.  I must absent myself from all I loved while thus
unexpected; but right away after I see I warn't scared of him worth
unfavorable to killin' a man as long as you can git aroun' it; it ain't
unfinished work, and I renew this request now, when I am only induced
unfulfilled.
unhappy and still avoid our society.  For some time I was lost in
unhitched a skiff and pulled down the river two mile and a half, to the
union with placid contentment, not unmingled with a little fear, which
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
unprotected from his attacks, exasperated as he might be by my
unremitting attention to it.  As I sat, a train of reflection occurred
untied her.  I got up and tried to untie her, but I was so excited my
until I had obtained some knowledge as to the situation of my enemy.
until he or I perish; and then with what ecstasy shall I join my
until the ocean appeared at a distance and formed the utmost boundary
until then, I conjure you, do not mention or allude to it.  This I most
unutterable anxiety; and fear not but that when you are ready I shall
unwillingly to danger, and I must return."
unworthy of my condescension.  Remember that I have power; you believe
up Buck and tell him--oh, here he is himself.  Buck, take this little
up and had to take a back seat.  Jim always kept that five-center piece
up and helps him to keep me out o' my property.  Here's what the law
up and resolved to return to Geneva with all possible speed.
up and started along the bank.  There was a light burning in a little
up at the stars, and we didn't ever feel like talking loud, and it warn't
up en laid down on de planks.  De men 'uz all 'way yonder in de middle,
up her uncle, and he'd fix the thing.  I made the land about a mile
up in the lining of an old blanket overcoat.  Jim said he reckoned the
up on account of having seen the devil and been rode by witches.
up prompt now--don't stop to study over it.  Which end gets up first?"
up the pig and held him to my breast with my jacket (so he couldn't drip)
up the river about three mile in a skiff, and crossed over to the
up there.  A couple of squirrels set on a limb and jabbered at me very
up-bound steamboats fight the big river in the middle.  I told Jim all
up; so he had clumb in by the shed.  He kept a-looking me all over.  By
upon the sandy plain and prayed for death.  But revenge kept me alive;
urged my desire with an earnestness that easily induced my father to
urged your diabolical vengeance to this extremity, Frankenstein would
us again; I will go to the vast wilds of South America.  My food is not
us, but let us only cling closer to what remains and transfer our love
us.  Poor Emmeline made poetry about all the dead people when she was
use to me in my present undertaking.  The latter method of obtaining
use, none of the genies come.  So then I judged that all that stuff was
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
used to lay drunk with the hogs in the tanyard, but he hain't been seen
vain to cope with.  After a long pause of reflection I concluded that
vanquished, I should be a free man.  Alas!  What freedom?  Such as the
various arguments to banish my despair.  Sometimes he thought that I
various subjects, reflecting confusedly on my misfortunes and their
varmint curled up and ready for another spring.  I laid him out in a
vast mountains of ice are mole-hills which will vanish before the
vast portion of the earth and have endured all the hardships which
vengeance of the disappointed fiend, yet I was unable to overcome my
venture to intrude?  Besides, some months have elapsed since the
ventured forth to seize the animals whom starvation had forced from
very kind!  But where is he, why does he not hasten to me?"
vice.  Shall I, in cool blood, set loose upon the earth a daemon whose
victuals, though there warn't really anything the matter with them,--that
village, and buy ten or fifteen cents' worth of meal or bacon or other
village--no, indeedy, we would be in that same old town again.  So I said
violence except the black mark of fingers on his neck.
vision so horrible as his face, of such loathsome yet appalling
visit England, but concealing the true reasons of this request, I
visited my mind, and if I was ever overcome by ennui, the sight of what
visited the lakes of Lucerne and Uri, where the snowy mountains descend
voice would soothe me when transported by passion and inspire me with
volcano bursting forth, his face would suddenly change to an expression
voyage on the following day.  The day was fair, the wind favourable;
voyage we passed many willowy islands and saw several beautiful towns.
wait for the widow to tuck down her head and grumble a little over the
wait, so I slid overboard en struck out fer de islan'.  Well, I had a
waiting for the return of the fishermen, about an hour before she heard
waiting to be ransomed, that there won't be no place for the robbers.
wall of high bluffs.
wandered in vacancy, for they had lost their charm and their
wanderings began which are to cease but with life.  I have traversed a
want no more adventures.  He said that when I went in the texas and he
want to be a robber any more.
want to be climbing up and down there all the time.
want to do things regular, or don't you?--that's the idea.  Don't you
wanted to climb a tree first, and find out what the matter was
wanted to get aboard of her and slink around a little, and see what there
wanted to lynch him, but he was gone, you see.  Well, next day they found
war; then they go to the war.  But other times they just lazy around; or
warm joy to my heart, and tears gushed from my eyes.
warmed up, and went to ripping again.  He had been drunk over in town,
warmest admiration and affection.  My future hopes and prospects are
warn't afraid of anybody running across us.  We laid there all day, and
warn't any lock on the door, and hogs likes a puncheon floor in
warn't anything but a Sunday-school picnic, and only a primer-class at
warn't disappointed.  A big double loaf come along, and I most got it
warn't going to keep off the bad luck, I knowed that well enough.  I
warn't heard of no more, and Tom and Mort died, and then there warn't
warn't in. Then Tom said he hadn't got candles enough, and he would slip
warn't lucky.  De dream say let Balum inves' de ten cents en he'd make a
warn't no getting it out again.  He was the most down on Solomon of any
warn't no raft in sight; you couldn't see twenty yards.  I jumped into
warn't no use; he said it wouldn't talk. He said sometimes it wouldn't
warn't sixty yards long, and the minute I flew by the foot of it I shot
warn't the cooking good, and just bushels of it too!
warn't to blame, because I didn't run Jim off from his rightful owner;
warn't white.  I wouldn't 'low no nigger to call me dat."
warn't you?"
warnings that would come to us every now and then, and if we didn't try
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
wars. When I'd read about a half a minute, he fetched the book a whack
was "spiritual gifts."  This was too many for me, but she told me what
was a cat made of crockery, and a crockery dog by the other; and when you
was a woman about forty year old in there knitting by a candle that was
was a yell at us, and a jingling of bells to stop the engines, a powwow
was after sun-up, and I had been sound asleep.  Pap was standing over me
was alive to every new scene, joyful when he saw the beauties of the
was all right if that was Jim and not some other raftsman hollering.  I
was all right, because she done it herself.
was already there.
was at work on what they said was her greatest picture when she took
was behind vines.  It was all black, no gray; so was his long, mixed-up
was carried back and placed on a bed, hardly conscious of what had
was coming up pretty fast, and lots of driftwood going by on the rise.
was done by a runaway nigger named Jim."
was drifting straight down for her.  The lightning showed her very
was extended, in colour and apparent texture like that of a mummy. When
was floating along, of course, four or five miles an hour; but you don't
was found in the river drownded, about twelve mile above town, so people
was going to do, and was he going to stay?  Jim got out his hair-ball and
was going to start a band of robbers, and I might join if I would go back
was good to see; but when he straightened himself up like a liberty-pole,
was good.  He said he would split open a raw Irish potato and stick the
was hardly morning, and I might reasonably hope to arrive by night.  I
was high ground, so I didn't go.  No high ground about Cairo, Jim said.
was in a crossing; so I changed off and went that way.
was in the country."
was just a kind of a layer, as you may say; and they slid him edgeways
was my sentence, and on that night would the daemon employ every art to
was off to bed.  I went up to my room with a piece of candle, and put it
was on hand next day, Saturday, in the ambuscade; and when we got the
was only to make sure.  So he didn't pry into my pockets, but only felt
was overcome by gloom and misery and often reflected I had better seek
was planted and comfortable.  That sounded pretty reasonable, so I didn't
was prepared for me in the desert that restored and inspirited me.  The
was probably suggested by the extreme agitation I had exhibited when
was reserved for vengeance.  The laughter died away, when a well-known
was saying, she died before she got her mind made up, and now they kept
was shining bright, the fog was all gone, and I was spinning down a big
was so slenderly acquainted with the geography of this part of the
was so terribly profound.  Company was irksome to me; when alone, I
was suddenly arrested by the paddling of oars near the shore, and a
was sympathy, and the judge said it was so; so they cried again.  And
was there they wouldn't a left it.  I said I reckoned they killed him,
was there.  So I says:
was there. She got mad then, but I didn't mean no harm.  All I wanted was
was to blame for it?  Why, ME.  I couldn't get that out of my conscience,
was to me like the torture of single drops of water continually falling
was too long for me and not long enough for Jim, and we couldn't find the
was very probable that I had beaten about for many hours and had been
was we going to know we was passing a town?  Jim said if the two big
was what made me so long.  I knowed he would see I was wet, and then he
was white; not like another man's white, but a white to make a body sick,
was yet in my power to bestow.
was, and at last she got down to where I was murdered.  I says:
washed ashore and got tangled amongst the brush at the water's edge.  I
watched the rafts and steamboats spin down the Missouri shore, and
watching for lights and watching for our raft.  After a long time the
water on them and scrubbing them with another brick; sometimes they wash
water, and he says:
water-spout must be on the great ocean; and the waves dash with fury
water; and if a little glimpse of a snag slips by you don't think to
watermelon, or a mushmelon, or a punkin, or some new corn, or things of
waters as they had done a few hours before; they had then been observed
waves.
way but just to go along down with the raft till we got a chance to buy a
way of that nigger--why, he wouldn't a give me the road if I hadn't
way to consume me.
way, and next time you tramp take shoes and socks with you. The river
way.  And when you throw at a rat or anything, hitch yourself up a tiptoe
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
ways to keep off some kinds of bad luck, but this wasn't one of them
we better let blame' well alone, as de good book says.  Like as not dey's
we didn't show ourselves in daylight.
we got home.  The old gentleman's eyes blazed a minute--'twas pleasure,
we never hived any of them.  Tom Sawyer called the hogs "ingots," and he
we took a swim now and then to keep off sleepiness.  It was kind of
wedding-night."
week before we got to the stern.  No sign of a boat.  Jim said he didn't
weeks. It's a considerable ways to the upper end of the town.  You better
well as Oxford, for the antiquity of the latter city was more pleasing
well.  Why didn't you come out and say so?  Do you want to spread it all
went away and left us."
went boo-hooing to Judge Thatcher to get money to hunt for the nigger all
went creeping away on our hands and knees.  When we was ten foot off Tom
went for it, cautious and slow.  By and by I was close enough to have a
went for me, too, for not stopping school.  He catched me a couple of
went out with the skiff and towed it ashore.  Then we had dinner.
went wild in them bottoms after they had got away from the prairie farms.
went winding in and out amongst the trees, and sometimes the vines hung
went.  I see the fog closing down, and it made me so sick and scared I
were agitated, and my eyes inflamed by watching and misery.  The sleep
were all true, for it never presented itself to my mind with the force
were calmer and more composed than they had ever been since my journey
were dead, for I fancy it will go hard with you!  However, that's none
were filled with the remembrance of the events that had been transacted
were gently agitated by the wind; the night was nearly dark, and the
were intense; by the union of these qualities I conceived the idea and
were now lighted up with indignation, now subdued to downcast sorrow
were often prolonged by the successive objects that presented
were on your person were brought me, and I examined them that I might
were sheltered from its rays by a kind of canopy while we enjoyed the
were shut to the horror of my proceedings.  But now I went to it in
whah de lantern wuz.  De river wuz a-risin', en dey wuz a good current;
whah to pick up my track.  So I says, a raff is what I's arter; it doan'
what I have felt and still feel?  Cold, want, and fatigue were the
what I now feel be no longer felt.  Soon these burning miseries will be
what I's agwyne to do.  You see, ef I kep' on tryin' to git away afoot,
what a thing costs, you know, long as they want it.  Stick a candle in
what do you think?  They said he was a p'fessor in a college, and could
what path I should pursue.  As night approached I found myself at the
what the rise might fetch along.  Well, all at once here comes a canoe;
what they was before.  I didn't believe we could lick such a crowd of
what was the use to talk about it?  It would only look like we was
what were my duties with regard to this destroyer.  I called on him to
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
what's the use you learning to do right when it's troublesome to do right
whatever I asked for I would get it.  But it warn't so.  I tried it.
whatever consequences, must be fulfilled; but I now felt as if a film
when I catch you.  And don't go about women in that old calico.  You do a
when I first saw the ocean he was but one day's journey in advance, and
when I heard a sound away over the water.  I listened.  Pretty soon I
when I looked around and saw the barred windows and the squalidness of
when Jim flung himself down on the blanket while I struck a light the
when all humankind sinned against me? Why do you not hate Felix, who
when he begins to sink into repose, he finds himself obliged to quit
when he was sober and could get his hands on me; though I used to take to
when it was bedtime the old man rose up and held out his hand, and says:
when it was just about the bluest and blackest--FST! it was as bright as
when nature, overcome by hunger, sank under the exhaustion, a repast
when she was she had a look that would make you wilt in your tracks, like
when the island had been overflowed a day or two they got so tame, on
when the mark of the fingers was mentioned I remembered the murder of
when the scene is on the point of closing before me forever, I shudder
when the weather permitted, I walked on the stony beach of the sea to
when we had got pretty well stuffed, we laid off and lazied.  By and by
when you quitted Geneva.  This winter has been passed most miserably,
when you set out to thread a needle don't hold the thread still and fetch
when young, and taught to look forward to it as an event that would
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
where Miss Watson lived; and then they would both work to buy the two
where can I find rest but in death?
where it is most hated.  For a moment only did I lose recollection; I
where it pinched.  Conscience says to me, "What had poor Miss Watson done
where it was going to fall on me, and what it was going to be.  There is
where the corpse of my beloved lay.  There were women weeping around; I
where the remains of Frankenstein still lie.  I must arise and
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
where you wouldn't a noticed that there was a hole.  We went along a
whether I warn't.  When I was fifty yards off, Jim says:
whether you wanted to or not."
whetstone there too, so as to look like it had been done by accident.
which I almost regarded as an insuperable barrier between me and my
which I am impassive.  You will find near this place, if you follow not
which I couldn't see right well.  The old gentleman says:
which I expected peace.
which I gave, so much does suffering blunt even the coarsest sensations
which I was engaged.  During my first experiment, a kind of
which consisted of five persons, whose gaunt and scraggy limbs gave
which every now and then would return by fits, and with a devouring
which filled me with fear and agitation.  During my absence I should
which he had allotted to me.  Yes, he had followed me in my travels; he
which he had displayed on the opening of his existence and the
which he valued.  He reminds me how often the same accidents have
which lay close to the vessel.  He was soon borne away by the waves and
which reflects its majestic assemblage of towers, and spires, and
which the martyrs of old are said to have possessed.  But to a Genevan
which was disturbed by the approach of a beautiful child, who came
which was much redder and yellower and prettier than real ones is, but
which was the free States, and wouldn't have no more trouble.
which, after taking a small part, I always presented to those who had
while residing with my family in Geneva, the death of my mother, and my
while they exist you shall never behold me again.  Depart to your home
while, but by and by pap raised up a minute to drink another barrel of
while, moaning.  Then he laid stiller, and didn't make a sound.  I could
whiskers.  There warn't no color in his face, where his face showed; it
whisper, "Jim!" and he answered up, right at my elbow, with a sort of a
whispered to me, and wanted to tie Jim to the tree for fun.  But I said
white cliffs of Britain.  The banks of the Thames presented a new
white it hurt your eyes to look at it; and on Sundays he wore a blue
white man.  He had the whitest shirt on you ever see, too, and the
white.  As for his clothes--just rags, that was all.  He had one ankle
whitewashed on the outside.
who feared that if I lost all trace of him I should despair and die,
who might make the very existence of the species of man a condition
who was now but a shadow and a recollection.  Tears streamed from my
whoever saved him would send him back home so as to get the reward, and
whole fortune if I wanted it to.  I says, go on.  So the hair-ball talked
whole kind!  But I now indulge in dreams of bliss that cannot be
whole world; she was going to live so as to go to the good place.  Well,
whom I had destroyed, lay scattered on the floor, and I almost felt as
whooped and listened.  Away down there somewheres I hears a small whoop,
whose illness increased in such a degree that he was entirely confined
whose portrait I held, but of an agreeable aspect and blooming in the
why couldn't she tell her husband to fetch a dog?  Jim said he bet she
wickedness of my promise burst upon me; I shuddered to think that
wid work, en wid de callin' for you, en went to sleep, my heart wuz mos'
wide.
wider scope for your revenge?"
widow about it, and she said the thing a body could get by praying for it
widow would take me one side and talk about Providence in a way to make a
widow's Providence, but if Miss Watson's got him there warn't no help for
widow's if he wanted me, though I couldn't make out how he was a-going to
will be glad when he sees this--she's worth ten dollars.  But when I
will be renewed, and you will then have a companion to aid you in the
will not associate with me; but one as deformed and horrible as myself
will not listen to such a sinister voice.  Observe how fast we move
will sleep in peace, or if it thinks, it will not surely think thus.
will work at your destruction, nor finish until I desolate your heart,
will.  People would call me a low-down Abolitionist and despise me for
willingly continue to endure their present hardships.
willows east of the house, to a shallow lake that was five mile wide and
willows that hung over the bank, and waited for the moon to rise.  I made
wind that would bend the trees down and turn up the pale underside of the
winner.  They was all a-horseback; he lit off of his horse and got behind
wish for happiness and thought with melancholy delight of my beloved
wish was ever present to my thoughts; and I often sat for hours
wished the widow knowed about it.  I judged she would be proud of me for
wishes of your parents, although they opposed themselves to your
witchcraft. I catched a good big catfish, too, and Jim cleaned him with
with Elizabeth should take place immediately on my return.  My father's
with Elizabeth.  I remained silent.
with a buckskin string, but a brass knob to turn, the same as houses in
with a long stick, but my foot slipped and she floated out further.  Of
with a part of my dress and eagerly steered my course towards the
with a safe conscience; it were well if everybody did the same."
with a skinned rabbit and set it and catch a catfish that was as big as a
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
with candour and answer me, I conjure you, with confidence and
with her disposition she was having a better time in the graveyard.  She
with his hand and knocked it across the house.  He says:
with his son and brother-in-law, Daniel Nugent, when, about ten
with infinite fatigue, to move my ice raft in the direction of your
with it generly, but she'd wrenched her arm a day or two ago, and didn't
with it.  He said there was a spirit inside of it, and it knowed
with its venom.  Man, you shall repent of the injuries you inflict."
with my hands.  Well, here's your bad luck!  We've raked in all this
with our dear Elizabeth as the tie of our domestic comfort and the stay
with rage, sometimes low and despondent.  I neither spoke nor looked at
with reflection, their courage would return.  They retired and I turned
with some degree of severity, and then, turning towards my conductors,
with sublime and transcendent visions of the beauty and the majesty of
with such inquietude and impatience, my father thought it best to
with the friends of my youth, but I awoke and found myself in a
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
with the side of bacon; then the whisky-jug.  I took all the coffee and
with the solitude I coveted for the prosecution of my task; yet at the
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
with this deadly weight yet hanging round my neck and bowing me to the
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net
with your six thousand, because if you take it you'll spend it."
without a bitter struggle.
without tears.  What a glorious creature must he have been in the days
without this final and wonderful catastrophe. I entered the cabin where
wives quarrels considable; en dat 'crease de racket.  Yit dey say
woke up I didn't know where I was for a minute.  I set up and looked
woman dressed up in a man's clothes.  So I was uncomfortable again.  I
won't let me."
won.  I took out the plug and shook out the little dab of quicksilver,
wonder that I survive what I have endured.  I will confide this tale of
wonder that at that moment, instead of venting my sensations in
wonderful, forces conviction.  The story is too connected to be
wood-yards and the sawmill.
woodboats; for I couldn't rest easy till I could see the ferryboat start.
woods and vines.
woods en jedged I wouldn' fool wid raffs no mo', long as dey move de
woods talking, and me reading the books, and having a general good time.
woods.  I made a kind of a tent out of my blankets to put my things under
woods.  I sat down there on a log, and looked out through the leaves.  I
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
word we rushed out of the woods and down the hill.  But there warn't no
words of the fiend rang in my ears like a death-knell; they appeared
words will only exasperate my rage."
words, what remains of my hideous narration. I arrived at Geneva.  My
words.  Leave me; I am inexorable."
wore broad Panama hats.
wore out, I got to thinking that if I could fix up some way to keep pap
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.
work was soon finished; in a few minutes a tumultuous sea rolled
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
works.
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.
world that the sun was of little benefit to me.  I might be driven into
worth as much in a man as it is in a horse, so the Widow Douglas said,
would a been worth a good deal over at the village.  They peddle out such
would a thought he was Adam--he was just all mud.  Whenever his liquor
would all come handy by and by, I judged.
would alone restore you to yourself.  I, who have so disinterested
would be an act of the basest and most atrocious selfishness, and I
would be asking questions.  We got five catfish off the lines and went
would follow me and exempt my family from the danger of his
would go fooling around there.
would go to saving up money and never spend a single cent, and when he
would he not accompany me to England?  This imagination was dreadful in
would help him and not look down on him.  The judge said he could hug him
would not credit it were there not something in truth which, however
would not deny herself to me.  My companion must be of the same species
would pull through and get out of the fog and into the big clear river,
would see if there was anything in it.  I got an old tin lamp and an iron
would she assuredly act if her darkened eyes opened and she beheld me.
would sympathize with and love me.  Behold, on these desert seas I have
would take an interest in this kind of business, and throw in the fancy
would then assuredly take place, in which if he were victorious I
would you, Huck?"
would, each and all, abhor me and hunt me from the world did they know
would."
wouldn' sell me down to Orleans.  But I noticed dey wuz a nigger trader
wouldn't hardly notice the other niggers.  Niggers would come miles to
wouldn't sting idiots; but I didn't believe that, because I had tried
wouldn't wait more than about a week longer.  After that the talk got
wouldn't worry about it any more, but just let it go.  Sometimes the
wouldn't.
wouldn't.  She said it was a mean practice and wasn't clean, and I must
wounds until death shall close them forever.
wreck there's one of 'em going to be in a bad fix.  But if we find their
wreck, and the ferryman and the nigger woman and the horses was all lost,
wretch I had created.  I had a persuasion that I should be supposed
wretch!  You wish to eat me and tear me to pieces.  You are an ogre.
wretchedness.  At one time I considered whether I should not declare
wrinkled his lips as he gazed on me, where I sat fulfilling the task
wrist and elbow, with your arm out to one side, like a boy.  And, mind
write just a little, and could say the multiplication table up to six
write.  You think you're better'n your father, now, don't you, because he
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
wust. They said he could VOTE when he was at home.  Well, that let me
wuz? En didn't I bust up agin a lot er dem islands en have a turrible
year's camp, and then clumb a tree.
years old.  They was different from any pictures I ever see before
yet been in his deeds of blood, I should almost regard him as
yet have lived."
yet the vessel in which I was, the wind that blew me from the detested
yet, again, I considered whether my marriage would hasten my fate.  My
yet, but in a different place; it kept coming, and kept changing its
yield.  We took our passage on board a vessel bound for Havre-de-Grace
yo' fren'."
yonder-way, and turn out west when you git there, and about a quarter of
you all do?"
you all night till you went to sleep about ten minutes ago, and I reckon
you are always making!"  The widow put in a good word for me, but that
you are distant from me, and it is possible that you may dread and yet
you are so eminently deserving.  He was a being formed in the "very
you could treat her so mean?  Why, she tried to learn you your book, she
you desponding and sorrowful!" In truth, I was occupied by gloomy
you didn't know where it was.
you for one benefit!  Let me see that I excite the sympathy of some
you get a chance, because if you don't want him yourself you can easy
you get help and nab them, and you can make some money by it."
you get into trouble you send word to Mrs. Judith Loftus, which is me,
you get it when it floats by.  I feel mighty mean to leave you; but my
you get mud-turkles?"
you have preserved my narration," said he, "I would not that a
you knew what I have suffered and what I may yet endure, you would
you know not what it is you say."
you like to comb up Sundays, and all that kind of foolishness?  You bet I
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
you reckon it may be he's hungry?"
you the same."
you would, honey.  Chickens knows when it's gwyne to rain, en so do de
you'd help me tow the raft ashore where the light is.  He's sick--and so
you'll come to a town on the left-hand side of the river.  It will be
you've been dreaming."
you've swore 't if you didn't you'd tell.  But this time you've said it
you, and I ain't going to tell on you, nuther.  You just tell me your
you, my smarty; and if I catch you about that school I'll tan you good.
you, then, safe--and Elizabeth--and Ernest?" My father calmed me with
you, then, so easily turned from your design?  Did you not call this a
you, when a girl tries to catch anything in her lap she throws her knees
you," he said, "in your solitary rambles, than with these Scotch
you--dat's de yuther one; I's Sollermun; en dish yer dollar bill's de
you.  Chase away your idle fears; to you alone do I consecrate my life
you.  Know that, one by one, my friends were snatched away; I was left
you?"
young birds done it.  I was going to catch some of them, but Jim wouldn't
young chickens flew that way, and so he reckoned it was the same way when
young lady with her hair all combed up straight to the top of her head,
your absence."
your countenance and to find that your heart is not totally void of
your equipment.
your father?"
your happiness forever.  Are you to be happy while I grovel in the
your head in." I done it, but I judged they would take it off.
your hearts may be; it is mutable and cannot withstand you if you say
your name was?"
your part would cause me any serious uneasiness.  Interpret my words
your path."
your pocket; I can't rest, Jim, till we give her a rummaging.  Do you
your purposes and firm as a rock. This ice is not made of such stuff as
your rat about six or seven foot. Throw stiff-armed from the shoulder,
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
yours that's dry."
yourself how fast YOU'RE going, but you catch your breath and think, my!
yourself miserable, but I can make you so wretched that the light of
yourself, equal in deformity and wickedness."
yourself, whose joint wickedness might desolate the world.  Begone!  I
yourselves cowards.  Oh!  Be men, or be more than men.  Be steady to
yuther of 'em.  Is a Frenchman a man?"
