












Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
[Reads]
Exit CASSANDRA
[HECTOR falls]
Exeunt fighting
Exit ANDROMACHE
Exit CLOWN
Exit CLOWN
Exit FABIAN
[They draw]
[Steps aside]
Exit MAMILLIUS
Exit VALENTINE
[A retreat sounded]
Exit SIR ANDREW
Exit with MARIA
[Giving a ring]
[Sheathes his sword]
[Tearing the letter]
ANDREW AGUECHEEK.'
Exeunt all but PANDARUS
Exeunt all but THERSITES
[Holding SEBASTIAN]
Exeunt PARIS and MENELAUS
[Giving another coin]
[MAMILLIUS is led out]
[Taking up the letter]
Exeunt OLIVIA and MARIA
THE FORTUNATE-UNHAPPY.'
Exeunt AGAMEMNON and MENELAUS
Exeunt SILVIA and THURIO
Exeunt all but the CLOWN
THE MADLY-US'D MALVOLIO'
Exeunt PROTEUS and SILVIA
Exit CURIO. [Music plays]
Exeunt ANTONIO and PANTHINO
Exeunt CURIO and ATTENDANTS
Exeunt VALENTINE and PROTEUS
Exeunt all but TROILUS and ULYSSES
[Giving her hand to POLIXENES]
Exeunt TROILUS and DIOMEDES fighting
Exeunt SIR TOBY, FABIAN, and MARIA
SCENE:
Enter DUKE
Enter SPEED
Enter VIOLA
Re-enter MARIA
Enter PANTHINO
Exeunt HERMIONE, guarded, and LADIES
Enter SILVIA
Exeunt severally PRIAM and HECTOR. Alarums
Re-enter MALVOLIO
Enter CLOWN
Enter DUKE
Enter MARIA
Enter PANTHINO
Enter PROTEUS
Re-enter MARIA
Re-enter THURIO
CLOWN sings
CLOWN sings
Enter MARIA
Enter MARIA
Enter OFFICERS
Enter PROTEUS
Enter SILVIA
Enter SIR TOBY
Enter SPEED
Enter TROILUS
Exeunt SIR TOBY, SIR ANDREW, and FABIAN
Exit DIOMEDES; ULYSSES and TROILUS following
CLOWN sings
Enter AJAX
Enter HECTOR
Enter NESTOR
Enter OLIVIA
Enter PANDARUS
Enter PROTEUS
Enter VALENTINE
Re-enter LUCETTA
Re-enter MALVOLIO
THERSITES
Enter AENEAS
Enter AGAMEMNON
Enter MALVOLIO
Enter MARIA
Enter ULYSSES
Re-enter PANTHINO
Sicilia and Bohemia
But who?
Enter ACHILLES
Enter ANTONIO
Enter HECTOR
Enter MALVOLIO
Enter MARGARELON
Enter PROTEUS and LAUNCE
Enter SEBASTIAN
Enter TROILUS
Enter TROILUS
Exeunt POLIXENES, HERMIONE, and ATTENDANTS
Enter ACHILLES
Enter CRESSIDA
Enter DIOMEDES
Enter OLIVIA and MALVOLIO
Enter PANDARUS
Enter POLIXENES
Enter SERVANT
Enter SILVIA, attended
Enter SIR ANDREW
Enter VALENTINE
FESTE'S SONG
Re-enter LUCETTA
Re-enter TROILUS
Enter CASSANDRA
Enter SIR ANDREW AGUECHEEK
Enter one in armour
Jove knows I love,
Lips, do not move;
No man must know.'
Re-enter ACHILLES
Re-enter CRESSIDA
Adieu, goodman devil.                    Exit
And anon, sir,
Cries, Ah, ha! to the devil,
Enter PRIEST
Enter THERSITES
I am gone, sir,
In a trice,
Like to the old Vice,
SONG
Enter DUKE, CURIO, and ATTENDANTS
Enter OLIVIA and MARIA
Enter SILVIA above, at her window
Enter SIR ANDREW
Enter VALENTINE and SPEED
Exeunt CLOWN, FABIAN, SIR TOBY, and SIR ANDREW
Re-enter CURIO and CLOWN
Three merry men be we.
Did share it.
Enter ANTONIO and OFFICERS
Enter SIR TOBY and MARIA
Enter THURIO and MUSICIANS
I'll be with you again,
In his rage and his wrath,
Lay me, O, where
Like a mad lad,
O, prepare it!
Pare thy nails, dad.
Re-enter GAOLER, with EMILIA
Re-enter GENTLEMAN with the GAOLER
To weep there!
Who with dagger of lath,
Your need to sustain;
Enter OLIVIA and PRIEST
Enter OUTLAWS, with DUKE and THURIO
Enter SIR TOBY and CLOWN
Enter SIR TOBY and SIR ANDREW
Re-enter FABIAN, with MALVOLIO
Re-enter OLIVIA. With VIOLA
Re-enter SIR TOBY With SIR ANDREW
But silence, like a Lucrece knife,
Enter PROTEUS, and JULIA in boy's clothes
M. O. A. I. doth sway my life.'
Re-enter MARIA with MALVOLIO
Enter ACHILLES and his Myrmidons
Enter OLIVIA and ATTENDANTS
Lady, lady.
Re-enter CASSANDRA, with PRIAM
Re-enter FABIAN and VIOLA
Re-enter SIR TOBY and SIR FABIAN
There dwelt a man in Babylon,
'I may command where I adore;
Enter DIOMEDES, TROILUS following
Enter DUKE, VIOLA, CURIO, and LORDS
Enter LEONTES, ANTIGONUS, LORDS, and OTHERS
Enter SILVIA above, at her window
Enter SIR ANDREW, SIR TOBY, and FABIAN
For the rain it raineth every day.
For the rain it raineth every day.
For the rain it raineth every day.
For the rain it raineth every day.
Re-enter MARIA, with SIR TOBY and FABIAN
What's to come is still unsure.
With bloodless stroke my heart doth gore;
With hey, ho, the wind and the rain,
With hey, ho, the wind and the rain,
With hey, ho, the wind and the rain,
With hey, ho, the wind and the rain,
With hey, ho, the wind and the rain,
Youth's a stuff will not endure.
Come away, come away, death;
Exeunt TROILUS, AENEAS. and ULYSSES
Fly away, fly away, breath,
NESTOR, MENELAUS, and DIOMEDES, with lights
Not a flower, not a flower sweet,
Not a friend, not a friend greet
'Gainst knaves and thieves men shut their gate,
A foolish thing was but a toy,
A great while ago the world begun,
And we'll strive to please you every day.
But that's all one, our play is done,
But when I came to man's estate,
But when I came unto my beds,
But when I came, alas! to wive,
By swaggering could I never thrive,
Every wise man's son doth know.
For beauty lives with kindness.
In delay there lies no plenty,
Journeys end in lovers meeting,
Present mirth hath present laughter;
That Silvia is excelling;
That all our swains commend her?
That can sing both high and low.
The heaven such grace did lend her,
Then come kiss me, sweet and twenty;
To help him of his blindness;
Trip no further, pretty sweeting;
Upon the dull earth dwelling.
What is love? 'Tis not hereafter;
When that I was and a little tiny boy,
With toss-pots still had drunken heads,
A thousand thousand to save,
And being once subdu'd in armed trail,
And in sad cypress let me be laid;
Enter PROTEUS, SILVIA, and JULIA as Sebastian
Full merrily the humble-bee doth sing
I am slain by a fair cruel maid.
My part of death no one so true
My poor corpse where my bones shall be thrown;
My shroud of white, stuck all with yew,
On my black coffin let there be strown;
Sad true lover never find my grave,
Sweet honey and sweet notes together fail.
Till he hath lost his honey and his sting;
'To her let us garlands bring.
And, being help'd, inhabits there.
Enter HECTOR, TROILUS, AJAX, AGAMEMNON, ULYSSES,
Holy, fair, and wise is she;
Is she kind as she is fair?
Love doth to her eyes repair,
O mistress mine, where are you roaming?
O, stay and hear; your true love's coming,
She excels each mortal thing
That she might admired be.
Then to Silvia let us sing
Who is Silvia? What is she,
AGAMEMNON and the rest of the Greeks come forward
And slaves they are to me, that send them flying.
Because myself do want my servants' fortune.
Himself would lodge where, senseless, they are lying!
Re-enter CLOWN, with a letter, and FABIAN
That they should harbour where their lord should be.'
While I, their king, that thither them importune,
'If this fall into thy hand, revolve. In my stars I am above
'My thoughts do harbour with my Silvia nightly,
'Silvia, this night I will enfranchise thee.'
Do curse the grace that with such grace hath blest them,
Enter MENELAUS and PARIS, fighting; then THERSITES
Enter TROILUS and ULYSSES, at a distance; after them
Exit
I curse myself, for they are sent by me,
My herald thoughts in thy pure bosom rest them,
O, could their master come and go as lightly,
him,
peasant!
and therefore comes to speak with you. I told him you were
utters it by great swarths; the best persuaded of himself, so
'Above my fortunes, yet my state is well:
'Achilles hath the mighty Hector slain.'
'For often have you writ to her; and she, in modesty,
'Friend,' quoth I 'you mean to whip the dog.' 'Ay, marry do I'
'I am yours for ever.'
'Lo, Jupiter is yonder, dealing life!'
'Mongst all foes that a friend should be the worst!
'No man must know.' If this should be thee, Malvolio?
'No man must know.' What follows? The numbers alter'd!
'Poor forlorn Proteus, passionate Proteus,
'Sicilia is a so-forth.' 'Tis far gone
'This is put forth too truly.' Besides, I have stay'd
'Tis an ill office for a gentleman,
'Tis but her picture I have yet beheld,
'Tis none of mine.
'Tis not so sweet now as it was before.
'Tis not unknown to thee that I have sought
'Tis past enduring.
'Tis pity love should be so contrary;
'Tis pity she's not honest- honourable.'
'Tis so; and here's the ladder for the purpose.
'Tis threefold too little for carrying a letter to your lover.
'Tis true; for Friar Lawrence met them both
'Twere needful I denied it. My affairs
'Twere pity two such friends should be long foes.
'tis; I  can hardly forbear hurling things at him. I know my lady
A B C; to weep, like a young wench that had buried her grandam;
A baubling vessel was he captain of,
A bed-swerver, even as bad as those
A blessed soul doth in Elysium.
A brother's dead love, which she would keep fresh
A drop of Grecian blood. The end crowns all;
A federary with her, and one that knows
A fiend like thee might bear my soul to hell.           Exit
A fox to be the shepherd of thy lambs.
A gentleman and follower of my lady's.
A gracious person; but yet I cannot love him.
A great addition earned in thy death.
A guard of patience. Stay a little while.
A journey to my loving Proteus.
A linguist, and a man of such perfection
A lip of much contempt, speeds from me;
A little time will melt her frozen thoughts,
A man I am cross'd with adversity;
A mock is due. Will you walk on, my lord?
A most extracting frenzy of mine own
A murd'rous guilt shows not itself more soon
A natural perspective, that is and is not.
A pack of sorrows which would press you down,
A party in this alteration, finding
A rashness that I ever yet have shunn'd,
A ring in chase of you; so did I abuse
A savour that may strike the dullest nostril
A school-boy's top. Away with her to prison.
A sea of melting pearl, which some call tears;
A servant grafted in my serious trust,
A slave that still an end turns me to shame!
A smaller boon than this I cannot beg,
A solemn combination shall be made
A spider steep'd, and one may drink, depart,
A stoup of wine, Maria!
A thought of added honour torn from Hector.
A thousand oaths, an ocean of his tears,
A thriving issue; there is no lady living
A token from her daughter, my fair love,
A virtuous gentlewoman, mild and beautiful!
About his neck, Bohemia; who- if I
According to my birth. What do you say?
According to my shallow simple skill.
According to our proclamation, gone?
According to your ladyship's impose,
Account me not your servant.
Achilles Is arming, weeping, cursing, vowing vengeance.
Acquaint the Queen of your most noble offer
Added to their familiarity-
Address their dangers in. Hector is gone.
Admits no orifex for a point as subtle
Advise me where I may have such a ladder.
Affection! thy intention stabs the centre.
After the General, I beseech you next
After the last enchantment you did here,
After we part from Agamemnon's tent,
After your dire-lamenting elegies,
Against the non-performance, 'twas a fear
Against thy peace. Go with me to my house,
Ah, Silvia! Silvia!
Ah, poor our sex! this fault in us I find,
Ah, sir, there's many a Greek and Troyan dead,
Aiming at Silvia as a sweeter friend.
Ajax commands the guard to tend on you.
Ajax prouder than the cur Achilles, and will not arm to-day;
Ajax, your guard, stays to conduct you home.
Alack, for lesser knowledge! How accurs'd
Alas! this parting strikes poor lovers dumb.          Exeunt
Alas, how love can trifle with itself!
Alas, our frailty is the cause, not we!
Alas, poor Proteus, thou hast entertain'd
Alas, poor fool, why do I pity him
Alas, poor lady, desolate and left!
Alas, their love may be call'd appetite-
Albeit the quality of the time and quarrel
All Greek, and this all Troy; my mother's blood
All his in dedication; for his sake,
All in Bohemia's well- this satisfaction
All that are his so too. To do this deed,
All that is mine I leave at thy dispose,
All that was mine in Silvia I give thee.
All the occurrence of my fortune since
All this I speak in print, for in print I found it. Why muse you,
All's true that is mistrusted. That false villain
All, if you will, for I myself am best
Almost as like as eggs. Women say so,
Along the field I will the Troyan trail.                   Exeunt
Am like a prophet suddenly enrapt
Am not I consanguineous? Am I not of her blood? Tilly-vally,
Among the infinite doings of the world,
Amphimacus and Thoas deadly hurt;
An apple cleft in two is not more twin
An elder than herself; so wears she to him,
An esperance so obstinately strong,
An heir, and near allied unto the Duke.
An hour.
An if the shepherd be awhile away.
An oath that I have sworn. I will not break it.
And Eglamour is in her company.
And I am going to deliver them.
And I as rich in having such a jewel
And I beseech you come again to-morrow.
And I do stand engag'd to many Greeks,
And I had rather glib myself than they
And I have play'd the sheep in losing him.
And I have seen thee pause and take thy breath,
And I likewise will visit thee with mine.
And I must minister the like to you.
And I was trimm'd in Madam Julia's gown;
And I'll be sworn you would believe my saying,
And I, poor monster, fond as much on him;
And Julia herself have brought it hither.
And Silvia is myself; banish'd from her
And Silvia- witness heaven, that made her fair!-
And Valentine I'll hold an enemy,
And afterward determine our proceedings.
And all cry, Hector! Hector's dead! O Hector!
And all is semblative a woman's part.
And all the brothers too- and yet I know not.
And all the ceremony of this compact
And all the fair effects of future hopes.
And all those swearings keep as true in soul
And am her knight by proof.
And arms her with the boldness of a wife
And ask remission for my folly past.
And at that time I made her weep a good,
And at that time bequeath you my diseases.                   Exit
And baited it with all th' unmuzzled thoughts
And be in eye of every exercise
And bid the snail-pac'd Ajax arm for shame.
And bleat the one at th' other. What we chang'd
And built so shelving that one cannot climb it
And by an by a cloud takes all away!
And by and by intend to chide myself
And by herself, I will not tell you whose.
And call upon my soul within the house;
And can digest as much. Make no compare
And cannot say you dare not. Good Camillo,
And cannot soon revolt and change your mind.
And clap thyself my love; then didst thou utter
And daily graced by the Emperor;
And dallies with the innocence of love,
And did request me to importune you
And drench'd me in the sea, where I am drown'd.
And entertain'd 'em deeply in her heart.
And ev'n that pow'r which gave me first my oath
And feed upon the shadow of perfection.
And fellow'st nothing. Then 'tis very credent
And fit for great employment, worthy lord.
And flourish'd after, I'd not do't; but since
And foams at mouth, and he is arm'd and at it,
And formless ruin of oblivion;
And full as much, for more there cannot be,
And full of new-found oaths, which he wul break
And give some evening music to her ear.
And give't me in mine ear.
And gives memorial dainty kisses to it,
And grew a twenty years removed thing
And grieve his spirit that dares not challenge it.
And hard'ning of my brows.
And hath so humbled me as I confess
And he that is so yoked by a fool,
And he wants wit that wants resolved will
And hear thou there how many fruitless pranks
And here an engine fit for my proceeding!
And here he means to spend his time awhile.
And here is writ 'love-wounded Proteus.'
And his pond fish'd by his next neighbour, by
And how he cannot be a perfect man,
And if it please you, so; if not, why, so.
And in dimension and the shape of nature
And in such forms which here were presuppos'd
And instances of infinite of love,
And kept severely from resort of men,
And kill the bees that yield it with your stings!
And laid mine honour too unchary out;
And lasting in her sad remembrance.
And leave her on such slight conditions.
And leave no memory of what it was!
And leave the world no copy.
And leave you to your graver steps. Hermione,
And less than this, I am sure, you cannot give.
And let me see thee in thy woman's weeds.
And let no quarrel nor no brawl to come
And let them be recall'd from their exile:
And let your fervour, like my master's, be
And let your mind be coupled with your words.
And linger not our sure destructions on.
And live as we do in this wilderness?
And love you 'gainst the nature of love- force ye.
And made the most notorious geck and gul
And made them watchers of mine own heart's sorrow.
And make a pastime of each weary step,
And make distinct the very breach whereout
And make it but a shadow, as I am.
And make rough winter everlastingly.
And make the babbling gossip of the air
And manage it against despairing thoughts.
And mannerly distinguishment leave out
And many a man there is, even at this present,
And mar the concord with too harsh a descant;
And might not be delivered to the world,
And my desires, like fell and cruel hounds,
And never to my red-look'd anger be
And not all love to see you- though so much
And not depending on his friendly wish.
And not upon your maid.
And not without desert so well reputed.
And notwithstanding all her sudden quips,
And nought esteems my aged eloquence.
And now I do bethink me, it was she
And now I must be as unjust to Thurio.
And now am I, unhappy messenger,
And now excess of it will make me surfeit.
And now it is about the very hour
And now you are metamorphis'd with a mistress, that, when I look
And oftentimes have purpos'd to forbid
And on the justice of my flying hence
And once again I do receive thee honest.
And once fought with him. He was a soldier good,
And one who much I honour.
And our weak spirits ne'er been higher rear'd
And part being prompted by your present trouble,
And pay them when you part.
And pay thy life thou owest me for my horse.
And perfected by the swift course of time.
And pinch'd the lily-tincture of her face,
And pray her to a fault for which I chid her.
And presently go with me to my chamber,
And presently, all humbled, kiss the rod!
And quoted joint by joint.
And rob in the behalf of charity.
And say 'Thrice welcome, drowned Viola!'
And she, mistaken, seems to dote on me.
And should she thus be stol'n away from you,
And show thee all the treasure we have got;
And sight of men.
And signify this loving interview
And since you call'd me master for so long,
And sing them loud even in the dead of night;
And so adieu, good madam; never more
And so by many winding nooks he strays,
And so good morrow, servant.                     Exit SILVIA
And so, good rest.
And so, unworthily, disgrace the man,
And speak to him in many sorts of music,
And stands colossus-wise, waving his beam,
And study help for that which thou lament'st.
And suits well for a servant with my fortunes.
And tak'st it all for jest.
And tell me, in the modesty of honour,
And tell them there thy fixed foot shall grow
And tell's a tale.
And tempt not yet the brushes of the war.
And thanks, and ever thanks; and oft good turns
And that I love him not as I was wont.
And that I owe Olivia.
And that I partly know the instrument
And that beyond commission; and I find it,
And that hath dazzled my reason's light;
And that no woman has; nor never none
And that old common arbitrator, Time,
And that thou mayst perceive how well I like it,
And that to the infection of my brains
And that's far worse than none; better have none
And that's the reason I love him so little.
And the free maids that weave their thread with bones,
And then 'twas fresh in murmur- as, you know,
And then I'll presently attend you.
And thence she cannot be convey'd away.
And there I'll rest as, after much turmoil,
And there lacks work; anon he's there afoot,
And there the strawy Greeks, ripe for his edge,
And there they fly or die, like scaled sculls
And therein negligent; or else a fool
And they'll seem glorious.
And think my patience, more than thy desert,
And think thee worthy of an empress' love.
And thinking on it makes me cry 'Alas!'
And this is he that did the Tiger board
And this way comes he with it presently;
And thou shalt live as freely as thy lord
And though 'tis wonder that enwraps me thus,
And though myself have been an idle truant,
And though that nature with a beauteous wall
And threw her sun-expelling mask away,
And throw it thence into the raging sea.
And thus I search it with a sovereign kiss.
And to be boy eternal.
And to commend their service to his will.
And to do that well craves a kind of wit.
And to his image, which methought did promise
And to the nightingale's complaining notes
And to your shadow will I make true love.
And turn her out to who will take her in.
And underneath that consecrated roof,
And water once a day her chamber round
And well become the agent. 'T may, I grant;
And were there sense in his idolatry
And when I have the bloody Hector found,
And when that hour o'erslips me in the day
And when the flight is made to one so dear,
And when we have our armours buckled on,
And whom, by heaven I swear, I tender dearly,
And will employ thee in some service presently.
And will not use a woman lawlessly.
And will, by twos and threes, at several posterns,
And with a corded ladder fetch her down;
And with a green and yellow melancholy
And with another knot, five-finger-tied,
And with his varying childness cures in me
And with the vantage of mine own excuse
And with thy daring folly burn the world?
And with your queen. I am his cupbearer;
And worthless Valentine shall be forgot.
And would not force the letter to my view!
And wrangle with my reason, that persuades me
And yet I will not name it- and yet I care not.
And yet I will not, sith so prettily
And yet a thousand times it answers 'No.'             Exeunt
And yet methinks I do not like this tune.
And yet partake no venom, for his knowledge
And yet she takes exceptions at your person.
And yet take this again- and yet I thank you-
And yet the painter flatter'd her a little,
And yet the spacious breadth of this division
And yet the steer, the heifer, and the calf,
And yet we should for perpetuity
And yet you never swum the Hellespont.
And yet, alas, now I remember me,
And yet, when wit and youth is come to harvest,
And yet-
And you an officer fit for the place.
And you, Achilles, let these threats alone
And, acting this in an obedient hope,
And, ere I part with thee, confer at large
And, ev'n in kind love, I do conjure thee,
And, for the ways are dangerous to pass,
And, for your friend's sake, will be glad of you-
And, having sworn truth, ever will be true.
And, in a word, for far behind his worth
And, like the haggard, check at every feather
And, may I say to thee, this pride of hers,
And, of so great a favour growing proud,
And, partly, seeing you are beautified
And, stickler-like, the armies separates.
And, that my love may appear plain and free,
And, that thou mayst perceive my fear of this,
And, where I thought the remnant of mine age
And, worthy warrior, welcome to our tents.
And- in good time!- now will we break with him.
Antonio never yet was thief or pirate,
Appals our numbers. Haste we, Diomed,
Apparent to my heart.
Are all call'd neat.- Still virginalling
Are all the people mad?
Are empty trunks, o'erflourish'd by the devil.
Are journeying to salute the Emperor,
Are men endu'd with worthy qualities;
Are shuffl'd off with such uncurrent pay;
Are such allow'd infirmities that honesty
Are visibly character'd and engrav'd,
Are you content to be our general-
Are you mov'd, my lord?
Are you so fond of your young prince as we
Art thou my boy?
Art thou my calf?
Art thou of blood and honour?
As Ariachne's broken woof to enter.
As Hector's leisure and your bounties shall
As I am woman- now alas the day!-
As I come out: this action I now go on
As I kiss thee. Nay, do not snatch it from me;
As I perceive she does. There's something in't
As I would buy thee, view thee limb by limb.
As a nose on a man's face, or a weathercock on a steeple!
As black as Vulcan in the smoke of war.
As deep as that, though true.
As dice are to be wish'd by one that fixes
As doth that orbed continent the fire
As e'er I did commit.
As easily as I do tear his paper.
As ending anthem of my endless dolour.
As fat as tame things. One good deed dying tongueless
As friendship wears at feasts, keep with Bohemia
As full of labour as a wise man's art;
As full of sorrows as the sea of sands,
As gentle tell me of what honour was
As great as that thou fear'st.
As he had lost some province, and a region
As he had seen 't or been an instrument
As he in penance wander'd through the forest;
As hot as Perseus, spur thy Phrygian steed,
As howling after music.
As if but now they waxed pale for woe.
As if that luck, in very spite of cunning,
As if the garment had been made for me;
As if those organs had deceptious functions
As if you held a brow of much distraction.
As in a looking-glass; and then to sigh, as 'twere
As in revenge of thy ingratitude,
As is a dead man's nose; but I do see't and feel't
As it is spoke, she never will admit me.
As it might be perhaps, were I a woman,
As love doth give my heart; no woman's heart
As may beseem some well-reputed page.
As meet to be an emperor's counsellor.
As might have drawn one to a longer voyage-
As mine, against their will. Should all despair
As much I wish all good befortune you.
As now they are, and making practis'd smiles
As o'er-dy'd blacks, as wind, as waters- false
As or by oath remove or counsel shake
As ornaments oft do, too dangerous.
As passes colouring.
As potent as a lord's. Will go yet?
As rank as any flax-wench that puts to
As seek to quench the fire of love with words.
As seld I have the chance, I would desire
As they contend with thee in courtesy.
As thou hast lent me wit to plot this drift.            Exit
As thou lov'st Silvia, though not for thyself,
As to prenominate in nice conjecture
As to upbraid you with those kindnesses
As twenty seas, if all their sand were pearl,
As we do in our quality much want-
As when thy lady and thy true love died,
As you are certainly a gentleman; thereto
As you do love your lady Silvia.
As you feel doing thus; and see withal
As you have for Olivia. You cannot love her;
As you in worth dispraise Sir Valentine.
As, heaven it knows, I would not have him speed.
Ask me not what I would be, if I were not Thersites; for I care
Assure thyself my love is buried.
Assure yourself, after our ship did split,
At Patrick's cell this even; and there she was not.
At first I did adore a twinkling star,
At my depart I gave this unto Julia.
Attends the Emperor in his royal court.
Attested by the holy close of lips,
Avoid what's grown than question how 'tis born.
Away before me to sweet beds of flow'rs:
Away with him; and let her sport herself
Away, I say. Stayest thou to vex me here?        Exit LAUNCE
Away, Patroclus!                              Exit with PATROCLUS
Ay, but her forehead's low, and mine's as high.
Ay, every dram of woman's flesh is false,
Ay, so true love should do: it cannot speak;
Back you shall not to the house, unless you undertake that with
Bade him win all.
Bade me come smiling and cross-garter'd to you,
Banished Valentine.
Be a sufficient ransom for offence,
Be blam'd for't how you might.
Be calm, good wind, blow not a word away
Be drained! Let me embrace thee, Ajax.
Be gone; I will not hear thy vain excuse,
Be happy that my arms are out of use;
Be intelligent to me? 'Tis thereabouts;
Be left her to perform. Come, follow us;
Be not afraid, good youth; I will not have you;
Be not denied access, stand at her doors,
Be not offended, dear Cesario-
Be patient; we must bring you to our captain.
Be pilot to me, and thy places shall
Be plainer with me; let me know my trespass
Be pleas'd that I shake off these names you give me:
Be that thou know'st thou art, and then thou art
Be thou asham'd that I have took upon me
Be yok'd with his that did betray the Best!
Be you beneath the sky.  [Aside]  I am angling now,
Bears no impression of the thing it was.
Beat loud the tambourines, let the trumpets blow,
Because I love him, I must pity him.
Because he loves her, he despiseth me;
Because she will admit no kind of suit-
Because thou seest me dote upon my love.
Because we know, on Valentine's report,
Beck'ning with fiery truncheon my retire;
Become some women best; so that there be not
Becomes a woman best; I'll take't upon me;
Before her troth-plight. Say't and justify't.
Before the belching whale; then is he yonder,
Behold distraction, frenzy, and amazement,
Being destin'd to a drier death on shore.         Exit SPEED
Being entreated to it by your friend.
Being once display'd doth fall that very hour.
Being skilless in these parts; which to a stranger,
Being unprevented, to your timeless grave.
Believe this crack to be in my dread mistress,
Beseeming such a wife as your fair daughter.
Besides, her intercession chaf'd him so,
Besides, she did intend confession
Besides, the fashion of the time is chang'd-
Besides, thy staying will abridge thy life.
Best sing it to the tune of 'Light o' Love.'
Bestow thy fawning smiles on equal mates;
Betideth here in absence of thy friend;
Between that love a woman can bear me
Between the elements of air and earth
Betwixt the prince and beggar. I have said
Bid him make haste and meet me at the Northgate.
Bid me do anything but that, sweet Greek.
Bids thee with most divine integrity,
Bifold authority! where reason can revolt
Black men are pearls in beauteous ladies' eyes.
Blind with the pin and web but theirs, theirs only,
Bohemia stays here longer.
Boldly 'Not guilty,' the imposition clear'd
Both day and night did we keep company.
Both taxing me and gaging me to keep
Bounds in my father's'; by Jove multipotent,
Brabbler the hound; but when he performs, astronomers foretell
Brethren and sisters of the hold-door trade,
But 'tis that miracle and queen of gems
But I bespake you fair and hurt you not.
But I can make respective in myself,
But I will none of them; they are for you:
But I'll be master of it. Wilt thou not, beast, abide?
But I'll endeavour deeds to match these words,
But Moyses and Valerius follow him.
But Silvia is too fair, too true, too holy,
But Valentine, if he be ta'en, must die.
But am in that dimension grossly clad
But be of comfort.
But by my coming I have made you happy.
But by my ruin.
But cannot be true servant to my master
But chiefly for thy face and thy behaviour,
But come what may, I do adore thee so
But constant, he were perfect! That one error
But count the world a stranger for thy sake.
But dare all imminence that gods and men
But durst not tempt a minister of honour,
But edifies another with her deeds.              Exeunt severally
But falls into abatement and low price
But fly I hence, I fly away from life.
But for Achilles, my own searching eyes
But for my duty to your ladyship.
But for thee, fellow- fellow, thy words are madness.
But from her handmaid do return this answer:
But gives all gaze and bent of amorous view
But here comes Thurio. Now must we to her window,
But if I tell how these two did coact,
But if thou linger in my territories
But in conclusion put strange speech upon me.
But in this extant moment, faith and troth,
But it straight starts you.
But jealousy what might befall your travel,
But let concealment, like a worm i' th' bud,
But let him say so then, and let him go;
But let him swear so, and he shall not stay;
But like a cloistress she will veiled walk,
But mine is all as hungry as the sea,
But more of that anon. Take him aside.
But mount you presently, and meet with me
But nature to her bias drew in that.
But neither bended knees, pure hands held up,
But not for joy, not joy. This entertainment
But now I worship a celestial sun.
But of the finer natures, by some severals
But once before I spoke to th' purpose- When?
But only seeing, all other circumstances
But out of question 'tis Maria's hand.
But pity her.
But qualify the fire's extreme rage,
But rather reason thus with reason fetter:
But rather to beget more love in you;
But say this weed her love from Valentine,
But she is dead.
But since she did neglect her looking-glass
But since thou lov'st, love still, and thrive therein,
But since you make your pleasure of your pains,
But since your falsehood shall become you well
But so it is, it is not. Was this taken
But still sweet love is food for fortune's tooth.          Exeunt
But such a day to-morrow as to-day,
But such a headstrong potent fault it is
But tell me, wench, how will the world repute me
But that he speaks.
But that his negligence, his folly, fear,
But that's no welcome. Understand more clear,
But that's past doubt; you have, or your eye-glass
But there I leave to love where I should love.
But there's more in me than thou understand'st.
But there's no remedy; I shall answer it.
But think upon my grief, a lady's grief,
But this my masculine usurp'd attire,
But this thy countenance, still lock'd in steel,
But this your minion, whom I know you love,
But thou anon shalt hear of me again;
But to be paddling palms and pinching fingers,
But to the purpose- for we cite our faults
But truer stars did govern Proteus' birth;
But twice or thrice was 'Proteus' written down.
But vows to every purpose must not hold.
But were my worth as is my conscience firm,
But were you banish'd for so small a fault?
But when I look on her perfections,
But when his fair course is not hindered,
But when in other habits you are seen,
But wherefore waste I time to counsel the
But wise men, folly-fall'n, quite taint their wit.
But with a ling'ring dram that should not work
But with her most vile principal- that she's
But with my heart the other eye doth see.
But yet I slew him manfully in fight,
But you should pity me!
But you, Sir Thurio, are not sharp enough;
But your kind. hostess. Come, I'll question you
But, Host, doth this Sir Proteus, that we talk on,
But, Valentine being gone, I'll quickly cross
But, as thou lov'st thy life, make speed from hence.    Exit
But, being mask'd, he was not sure of it;
But, by great Mars, the captain of us all,
But, by the forge that stithied Mars his helm,
But, fearing lest my jealous aim might err
But, good my lord, do it so cunningly
But, had it been the brother of my blood,
But, if you were the devil, you are fair.
But, now you have it, take it.
But, since unwillingly, take them again.
But, were I you, he never should be mine.
But, when I call to mind your gracious favours
But, when we know the grounds and authors of it,
But, would you undertake another suit,
By Cressid's rule. Rather think this not Cressid.
By all the everlasting gods, I'll go.
By all their influences, you may as well
By any understanding pate but thine?
By aught that I can speak in his dispraise,
By each particular star in heaven and
By heaven! my wrath shall far exceed the love
By him that thunders, thou hast lusty arms;
By its own visage; if I then deny it,
By longing for that food so long a time.
By maidhood, honour, truth, and every thing,
By my regard, but kill'd none so. Camillo-
By one whom she esteemeth as his friend.
By penitence th' Eternal's wrath's appeas'd.
By some sly trick blunt Thurio's dull proceeding.
By this discovery lost. Be not uncertain,
By this white beard, I'd fight with thee to-morrow.
By wailful sonnets, whose composed rhymes
C's, her U's, and her T's; and thus makes she her great P's. It
Calchas' tent; I'll keep you company.
Call forth the holy father.                Exit an ATTENDANT
Calls not your counsels; but our natural goodness
Camillo was his help in this, his pander.
Camillo, this great sir will yet stay longer.
Can bide the beating of so strong a passion
Can lack persuasion? Do not tempt my misery,
Can no way change you to a milder form,
Can scarce entreat you to be odd with him.
Cancel all grudge, repeal thee home again,
Cannot be mute- or thought- for cogitation
Cannot your grace win her to fancy him?
Canst with thine eyes at once see good and evil,
Cassandra doth foresee; and I myself
Castiliano vulgo! for here comes Sir Andrew Agueface.
Cesario, by the roses of the spring,
Cesario, you do not keep promise with me.
Charge him too coldly. Tell him you are sure
Chide me for it.
Clear them o' th' city. For myself, I'll put
Cleomenes and Dion, whom you know
Clerk-like experienc'd, which no less adorns
Cold statues of the youth; and, in a word,
Come hither, boy. If ever thou shalt love,
Come not within the measure of my wrath;
Come on, Panthino; you shall be employ'd
Come on, sit down; come on, and do your best
Come up to th' truth. So have we thought it good
Come, I'll convey thee through the city gate;
Come, Proteus, 'tis your penance but to hear
Come, answer not, but to it presently;
Come, boy, with me; my thoughts are ripe in mischief:
Come, but one verse.
Come, come, Thersites, help to trim my tent;
Come, come, sir.
Come, come, thou boy-queller, show thy face;
Come, go with us; we'll bring thee to our crews,
Come, let us go; we will include all jars
Come, shadow, come, and take this shadow up,
Come, tie his body to my horse's tail;
Comes all the praises that I now bestow,
Commend my best obedience to the Queen;
Commend thy grievance to my holy prayers,
Commonly are- the want of which vain dew
Commune with you of this, but rather follow
Communicat'st with dreams- how can this be?-
Conceal me what I am, and be my aid
Concur together, severally entreat him.
Conduct me to the Queen.
Confirm his welcome with some special favour.
Confirm'd by mutual joinder of your hands,
Consort with me in loud and dear petition,
Constring'd in mass by the almighty sun,
Could be but recompens'd though you were crown'd
Could have persuaded me. Now I dare not say
Could man so blench?
Could penetrate her uncompassionate sire-
Courage and hope both teaching him the practice-
Cousin, all honour to thee!
Coy looks with heart-sore sighs, one fading moment's mirth
Created only to calumniate.
Cressid is mine, tied with the bonds of heaven.
Cressida to this Troilus.
Cressida was a beggar. My lady is within, sir. I will construe to
Cried fame and honour on him. What's the matter?
Cries 'This is he' could promise to himself
Cry lost, and so goodnight.
Cry out 'Olivia!' O, you should not rest
Dare you presume to harbour wanton lines?
Daylight and champain discovers not more. This is open. I will be
Dear gentlewoman,
Deceiv'd in thy integrity, deceiv'd
Deliver it to Madam Silvia-
Deliver'd by a friend that came from him.
Deliver'd you a paper that I should not.
Descended into perjury, to love me.
Desire him not to flatter with his lord,
Desire them home. Give me thy hand, my cousin;
Despising many forfeits and subduements,
Determin'd of- how I must climb her window,
Dexterity so obeying appetite
Did I expose myself, pure for his love,
Did I redeem; a wreck past hope he was.
Did hold his eyes lock'd in her crystal looks.
Did in your name receive it; pardon the fault, I pray.
Didst thou but know the inly touch of love.
Didst thou ever see me do such a trick?
Dinner is ready, and your father stays.
Disdain to root the summer-swelling flow'r
Disguise, I see thou art a wickedness
Dispatch, sweet gentlemen, and follow me.               Exit
Dispose of them as thou know'st their deserts.
Dissolves to water and doth lose his form.
Divides more wider than the sky and earth;
Do but mistake.
Do deeds worth praise and tell you them at night.
Do even drag me homeward; which to hinder
Do give thee five-fold blazon. Not too fast! Soft, soft!
Do not deny. Beshrew his soul for me!
Do not embrace me till each circumstance
Do not extort thy reasons from this clause,
Do not name Silvia thine; if once again,
Do seem to be of ours?
Do use to chant it; it is silly sooth,
Do't not, thou split'st thine own.
Do't, and thou hast the one half of my heart;
Done to me, undeserving as I am,
Dost think I am so muddy, so unsettled,
Dost thou live by thy tabor?
Doth Silvia know that I am banished?
Doth long to see unarm'd the valiant Hector.
Doth oft close in pollution, yet of thee
Drew to defend him when he was beset;
Duke. I, having been acquainted with the smell before, knew it
Dumb jewels often in their silent kind
E'er since pursue me.
Either thou art most ignorant by age,
Else would I very shortly see thee there.
Empale him with your weapons round about;
Endeavour thyself to sleep, and leave thy vain bibble-babble.
Engaging and redeeming of himself
Enough is shown: a cypress, not a bosom,
Enter at a distance, HOST, and JULIA in boy's clothes
Entreated me to call and know her mind;
Epistrophus and Cedius. Polixenes is slain;
Ere I could make thee open thy white hand
Ere that correction. Troilus, I say! What, Troilus!
Ere you can say she's honest. But be't known,
Especially against his very friend.
Even as I would, when I to love begin.
Even as one heat another heat expels
Even for this time I spend in talking to thee.
Even for your son's sake; and thereby for sealing
Even in a minute. So full of shapes is fancy,
Even in the faith of valour, to appear
Even in the fan and wind of your fair sword,
Even in the milk-white bosom of thy love.
Even so as I mine own course have set down.
Even so by love the young and tender wit
Even so quickly may one catch the plague?
Even to their ships.
Even with the speediest expedition
Even with the vail and dark'ning of the sun,
Except I be by Silvia in the night,
Except mine own name; that some whirlwind bear
Except thou wilt except against my love.
Excuse it not, for I am peremptory.
Exeunt
Expects my coming, there to see me shipp'd.
Experience is by industry achiev'd,
Fairwell, revolted fair!-and, Diomed,
Fall Greeks; fail fame; honour or go or stay;
Fall all together.
Fall down before him like the mower's swath.
Falling on Diomed.
Farewell, and take her; but direct thy feet
Farewell, our brother.
Farewell.                        Exit SILVIA with ATTENDANTS
Fate, show thy force: ourselves we do not owe;
Fates open their hands; let thy blood and spirit embrace them;
Father, I charge thee, by thy reverence,
Fear not, Cesario, take thy fortunes up;
Fear not; he bears an honourable mind,
Feed on her damask cheek. She pin'd in thought;
Fellow, commend my service to her beauty;
Fie on him! [Exit MARIA] Go you, Malvolio: if it be a suit from
Fie, fie, how wayward is this foolish love,
Fie, fie, unreverend tongue, to call her bad
Fills him with faults; makes him run through all th' sins:
First told me thou wast mad; then cam'st in smiling,
Fit for the mountains and the barbarous caves,
Flatter and praise, commend, extol their graces;
Follow me, sirs, and my proceedings eye.
For 'Get you gone' she doth not mean 'Away!'
For 'tis most dangerous.
For 'tis no trusting to yond foolish lout,
For 'tis thy rival. O thou senseless form,
For I am sure she is not buried.
For I did play a lamentable part.
For I had rather wink than look on them.
For I have heard him say a thousand times
For I will be thy headsman, Valentine.
For I'll not kill thee there, nor there, nor there;
For Monsieur Malvolio, let me alone with him; if I do not gull
For Orpheus' lute was strung with poets' sinews,
For Theseus' perjury and unjust flight;
For Thurio, he intends, shall wed his daughter;
For Valentine, I need not cite him to it.
For Valentine, myself; for Julia, Silvia.
For any, or for all these exercises,
For but a month ago I went from hence,
For depravation, to square the general sex
For every inch of woman in the world,
For folly that he wisely shows is fit;
For he was more than over shoes in love.
For him I imitate. O, if it prove,
For long agone I have forgot to court;
For love is still most precious in itself;
For love of you, not hate unto my friend,
For love, thou know'st, is full of jealousy.
For me and my possessions she esteems not.
For me, by this pale queen of night I swear,
For practising to steal away a lady,
For scorn at first makes after-love the more.
For shallow draught and bulk unprizable,
For she did speak in starts distractedly.
For she is lumpish, heavy, melancholy,
For so you shall be while you are a man;
For such as I am all true lovers are,
For such as we are made of, such we be.
For such disguise as haply shall become
For such is a friend now; treacherous man,
For that I woo, thou therefore hast no cause;
For the fair kindness you have show'd me here,
For them to play at will. How came the posterns
For they are harsh, untuneable, and bad.
For they shall yet belie thy happy years
For this affair. Some four or five attend him-
For thou hast shown some sign of good desert-
For though my soul disputes well with my sense
For thy conceit is soaking, will draw in
For thy sweet mistress' sake, because thou lov'st her.
For to a vision so apparent rumour
For truth hath better deeds than words to grace it.
For undertaking so unstaid a journey?
For we would give much, to use violent thefts
For what I will, I will, and there an end.
For which the youthful lover now is gone,
For which, if I be lapsed in this place,
For whose dear sake thou didst then rend thy faith
For why, the fools are mad if left alone.
For women are as roses, whose fair flow'r
For yonder walls, that pertly front your town,
For youth is bought more oft than begg'd or borrow'd.
For, being ignorant to whom it goes,
For, boy, however we do praise ourselves,
For, by the honour of my parents, I
For, in an act of this importance, 'twere
For, in revenge of my contempt of love,
For, since the substance of your perfect self
For, to yourself, what you do know, you must,
Forbid the sea for to obey the moon
Forbiddenly.
Force me to keep you as a prisoner,
Forgive me that I do not dream on thee,
Forgive me, Valentine; if hearty sorrow
Forgive them what they have committed here,
Forsake the court. To do't, or no, is certain
Forsake unsounded deeps to dance on sands.
Forsworn my company and rail'd at me,
Fortune forbid my outside have not charm'd her!
Fortune's fingers. Farewell. She that would alter services with
Foster'd, illumin'd, cherish'd, kept alive.
From course requir'd; or else thou must be counted
From east, west, north, and south. Be it concluded,
From heart of very heart, great Hector, welcome.
From heartiness, from bounty, fertile bosom,
From hence, from Silvia, and from me thy friend.
From him that has most cause to grieve it should be,
From my great purpose in to-morrow's battle.
From my remembrance clearly banish'd his.
From our free person she should be confin'd,
From the rude sea's enrag'd and foamy mouth
Frown on, you heavens, effect your rage with speed.
Gentle Lucetta, fit me with such weeds
Gentlewoman, good day! I pray you be my mean
Get thee to yond same sovereign cruelty.
Give me a note; your ladyship can set.
Give me excess of it, that, surfeiting,
Give me the boy. I am glad you did not nurse him;
Give rest to th' minds of others such as he
Give scandal to the blood o' th' Prince, my son-
Giving a gentle kiss to every sedge
Go hence in debt. And therefore, like a cipher,
Go in to Troy, and say there 'Hector's dead.'
Go in, and cheer the town; we'll forth, and fight,
Go presently, and take this ring with thee,
Go then; and with a countenance as clear
Go thou with her to the west end of the wood;
Go to, go to!
Go with me. Once more, new servant, welcome.
Go, base intruder, over-weening slave,
Go, get you gone; and let the papers lie.
Go, give your master this. Tell him from me,
Go, play, boy, play; thy mother plays, and I
Go, wind, to wind, there turn and change together.
Goes on my master's griefs.
Gone already!
Good Proteus, go with me to my chamber,
Good day, Camillo.
Good expedition be my friend, and comfort
Good lady!
Good my mouse of virtue, answer me.
Good traders in the flesh, set this in your painted
Gorboduc 'That that is is'; so I, being Master Parson, am Master
Grace and good disposition attend your ladyship!
Great Hector was as good a man as he.
Great Troy is ours, and our sharp wars are ended.
Had I expected thee.
Had come along with me but that his mistresss
Had numb'red thirteen years.
Had servants true about me that bare eyes
Halloo your name to the reverberate hals,
Haply when they have judg'd me fast asleep,
Hark how Troy roars; how Hecuba cries out;
Hark! a retire upon our Grecian part.
Hark, Greek: as much as I do Cressid love,
Has deserv'd prison, then abound in tears
Has made thee swell thus.
Hast cleans'd my bosom- I from thee departed
Hast made thine enemies?
Hath Doreus prisoner,
Hath beat down enon; bastard Margarelon
Hath been between this lady and this lord.
Hath for your love as great a pang of heart
Hath he excepted most against my love.
Hath it not, boy?
Hath kill'd the flock of all affections else
Hath made me publisher of this pretence.
Hath my maid's garments. He, upon some action,
Hath newly pass'd between this youth and me.
Hath nothing been but shapes and forms of slaughter.
Hath she forsworn me?
Hath stay'd upon some favour that it loves;
Have at thee.
Have bench'd and rear'd to worship; who mayst see,
Have done offence, I take the fault on me:
Have learn'd me how to brook this patiently.
Have some malignant power upon my life:
Have some unhappy passenger in chase.
Have the disease, and feel't not. How now, boy!
Have too much blood in him.
Have utt'red truth; which if you seek to prove,
Have you not set mine honour at the stake,
He being her pupil, to become her tutor.
He couples it to his complaining names.
He finished indeed his mortal act
He has discover'd my design, and I
He hath not told us of the captain yet.
He is as worthy for an empress' love
He is complete in feature and in mind,
He is dishonour'd by a man which ever
He is in haste; therefore, I pray you, go.
He is sure possess'd, madam.
He is thy crutch; now if thou lose thy stay,
He leaves his friends to dignify them more:
He lov'd me-O false wench!-Give't me again.
He makes a July's day short as December,
He makes sweet music with th' enamell'd stones,
He might have took his answer long ago.
He must be told on't, and he shall. The office
He must observe their mood on whom he jests,
He overtaketh in his pilgrimage;
He said that Proteus, your son, was meet;
He shall not carry him; I'll be ta'en too,
He started one poor heart of mine in thee.
He that takes that doth take my heart withal.
He was a bachelor then.
He were as much more villain: you, my lord,
He who shall speak for her is afar off guilty
He would have given it you; but I, being in the way,
He's a coward and a coystrill that will not drink to my niece
He's all my exercise, my mirth, my matter;
He's beat from his best ward.
Hear sweet discourse, converse with noblemen,
Hebrew, a Jew, and not worth the name of a Christian.
Hector is dead; there is no more to say.
Hector would have them fall upon him thus.
Hector! where's Hector? I will none but Hector.            Exeunt
Hector's great spirit flew. Answer me, heavens.
Hector, by this, is arming him in Troy;
Her advocate to th' loud'st. We do not know
Her eyes are grey as glass, and so are mine;
Her hair is auburn, mine is perfect yellow;
Her sweet perfections, with one self king!
Her true perfection, or my false transgression,
Here at my house, and at my proper cost.
Here can I sit alone, unseen of any,
Here comes Bohemia.
Here if thou stay thou canst not see thy love;
Here in the streets, desperate of shame and state,
Here is a coil with protestation!         [Tears the letter]
Here is a letter from Queen Hecuba,
Here is her hand, the agent of her heart;
Here is her oath for love, her honour's pawn.
Here is her picture; let me see. I think,
Here is my hand; you shall from this time be
Here lies thy heart, thy sinews, and thy bone.
Here to unfold- though lately we intended
Here's a million of manners.
Here's such ado to make no stain a stain
Here, there, and everywhere, he leaves and takes;
Here, youth, there is my purse; I give thee this
Hereditary ours.
Hermione, my dearest, thou never spok'st
Herself hath taught her love himself to write unto her lover.'
Hides my heart. So, let me hear you speak.
Him he knew well, and guess'd that it was she,
Him will I tear out of that cruel eye
His Julia gave it him at his departure.
His body for a girl that loves him not.
His business more material.
His counsel now might do me golden service;
His cupbearer- whom I from meaner form
His execution sworn.
His head unmellowed, but his judgment ripe;
His heart as far from fraud as heaven from earth.
His insolence draws folly from my lips;
His life I gave him, and did thereto ad
His love sincere, his thoughts immaculate,
His tears pure messengers sent from his heart,
His words are bonds, his oaths are oracles,
His years but young, but his experience old;
Hold little faith, though thou has too much fear.
Hold, there's expenses for thee.             [Giving a coin]
Hold, there's half my coffer.
Holds honour far more precious dear than life.
Home-keeping youth have ever homely wits.
Hope is a lover's staff; walk hence with that,
Hope of revenge shall hide our inward woe.
Hours, minutes; noon, midnight? And all eyes
How I am gall'd- mightst bespice a cup
How and which way I may bestow myself
How angerly I taught my brow to frown,
How churlishly I chid Lucetta hence,
How could he see his way to seek out you?
How do you, man? The music likes you not.
How does he, sirrah?
How dost thou, chuck?
How easy is it for the proper-false
How fares our gracious lady?
How happily he lives, how well-belov'd
How have the hours rack'd and tortur'd me
How he hath drunk, he cracks his gorge, his sides,
How he her chamber window will ascend
How he may soften at the sight o' th' child:
How his companion, youthful Valentine,
How like, methought, I then was to this kernel,
How now! what news from her?
How now, Malvolio!
How now, Malvolio!
How now, Sir Proteus! Is your countryman,
How now, minion!
How now, my brother!
How now, my metal of India!
How now, young man! Mean'st thou to fight to-day?
How oft hast thou with perjury cleft the root!
How poor Andromache shrills her dolours forth;
How shall I best convey the ladder thither?
How shall I dote on her with more advice
How shall I feast him? What bestow of him?
How she holds up the neb, the bill to him!
How she opposes her against my will.
How sometimes nature will betray its folly,
How thou lov'st us show in our brother's welcome;
How ugly night comes breathing at his heels;
How will she love when the rich golden shaft
How will this fadge? My master loves her dearly,
How with a sportful malice it was follow'd
How young Leander cross'd the Hellespont.
How, with my honour, I may undertake
Howe'er you lean to th' nayward.
However, but a folly bought with wit,
Hung on our driving boat, I saw your brother,
I a sheep?
I am a gentleman.
I am a gentleman.' I'll be sworn thou art;
I am as innocent as you.'
I am as mad as he,
I am as well in my wits, fool, as thou art.
I am betroth'd; and art thou not asham'd
I am for you again. Pray you sit by us,
I am impatient of my tarriance.                       Exeunt
I am my master's true confirmed love,
I am not prone to weeping, as our sex
I am question'd by my fears of what may chance
I am resolv'd that thou shalt spend some time
I am so far from granting thy request
I am sorry I must never trust thee more,
I am the man. If it be so- as 'tis-
I am thus early come to know what service
I am to break with thee of some affairs
I am to-day i' th' vein of chivalry.
I bade you never speak again of him;
I bear unto the banish'd Valentine;
I better brook than flourishing peopled towns.
I came to kill thee, cousin, and bear hence
I can no other answer make but thanks,
I cannot leave to love, and yet I do;
I cannot love him; let him send no more-
I cannot name the disease; and it is caught
I cannot now prove constant to myself
I claim her not, and therefore she is thine.
I claim the promise for her heavenly picture.
I come to lose my arm or win my sleeve.
I conjure thee, by all the parts of man
I could do this; and that with no rash potion,
I could not find him at the Elephant;
I dare my life lay down- and will do't, sir,
I dare not stand by; nor shall you be safer
I dare thee but to breathe upon my love.
I did some service; of such note, indeed,
I do applaud thy spirit, Valentine,
I do desire thee, even from a heart
I do desire thy worthy company,
I do detest false, perjur'd Proteus.
I do not fly; but advantageous care
I do not speak of flight, of fear of death,
I do not without danger walk these streets:
I do perceive it hath offended you.
I do; and will fetch off Bohemia for't;
I ever bore my daughter or thyself.
I fear I am attended by some spies.
I fear me he will scarce be pleas'd withal.
I fear me it will make me scandaliz'd.
I fear my Julia would not deign my lines,
I fear'd to show my father Julia's letter,
I fly not death, to fly his deadly doom:
I gave him gentle looks, thereby to find
I give consent to go along with you,
I had rather hear you to solicit that
I hate ingratitude more in a man
I have a sonnet that will serve the turn
I have access my own love to prefer;
I have consider'd well his loss of time,
I have done penance for contemning Love,
I have look'd on thousands who have sped the better
I have lov'd thee-
I have many cnemies in Orsino's court,
I have one friend alive: thou wouldst disprove me.
I have one heart, one bosom, and one truth,
I have three daughters: the eldest is eleven;
I have travell'd but two hours.
I have tremor cordis on me; my heart dances,
I have with exact view perus'd thee, Hector,
I hold him but a fool that will endanger
I hope my master's suit will be but cold,
I kill'd a man, whose death I much repent;
I know not what 'twas but distraction.
I know they are stuff'd with protestations,
I know thy constellation is right apt
I know you have determin'd to bestow her
I know you joy not in a love-discourse.
I leave myself, my friends, and all for love.
I lodge my wife; I'll go in couples with her;
I love thee not a jar o' th' clock behind
I love thee so that, maugre all thy pride,
I may be negligent, foolish, and fearful:
I mean to utter it, or both yourself and me
I must be answer'd. Dost thou hear, Camillo?
I must be patient till the heavens look
I must be present at your conference.
I must go send some better messenger.
I must have done no less with wit and safety.
I must unto the road to disembark
I never saw till now. I knew thy grandsire,
I never wish'd to see you sorry; now
I nightly lodge her in an upper tow'r,
I now am full resolv'd to take a wife
I now beseech you, for your daughter's sake,
I play'd the fool, it was my negligence,
I pray thee, let me feel thy cloak upon me.
I pray you, let us satisfy our eyes
I prithee tell me what thou think'st of me.
I prithee tell me; cram's with praise, and make's
I prithee, Diomed, visit me no more.
I prithee, and I'll pay thee bounteously,
I prithee, gentle friend,
I rather would entreat thy company
I reck not though thou end my life to-day.                   Exit
I saw him hold acquaintance with the waves
I saw his heart in's face. Give me thy hand;
I say at once let your brief plagues be mercy,
I say thou liest, Camillo, and I hate thee;
I see her beautiful.
I see things too, although you judge I wink.
I sent for thee upon a sad occasion.
I shall give worse payment.
I shall have share in this most happy wreck.
I shall pay dear.
I should have scratch'd out your unseeing eyes,
I should my tears let fall upon your cheek,
I should your lordship.
I snatch'd one half out of the jaws of death,
I speak too loud.
I swear, I am not that I play. Are you the lady of the house?
I tell thee I am as well in my wits as any man in Illyria.
I tender 't here; I do as truly suffer
I thank you for your pains; spend this for me.
I think 'tis no unwelcome news to you.
I think him so, because I think him so.
I think we do know the sweet Roman hand.
I think, is not for idle markets, sir.
I throw thy name against the bruising stones,
I to myself am dearer than a friend;
I trust I shall. My women, come; you have leave.
I vent to her that thou art coming?
I was preserv'd to serve this noble Count.
I weep myself, to think upon thy words.
I were a baby still. I love you better.
I will believe thou hast a mind that suits
I will dispatch him to the Emperor's court.
I will fetch you light and paper and ink.
I will forget that Julia is alive,
I will go eat with thee, and see your knights.
I will no further chide you.
I will not be myself, nor have cognition
I will not keep my word.
I will not look upon your master's lines.
I will not meet with you to-morrow night.
I will not speak a word.
I will respect thee as a father, if
I will send him hither to you presently.           Exit DUKE
I wish it might, for now I am your fool.
I would I were the first that ever dissembled in such a gown. I
I would have been a breakfast to the beast
I would have been much more a fresher man,
I would have had them writ more movingly.
I would it would make you invisible.
I would land-damn him. Be she honour-flaw'd-
I would not understand it.
I would swim after.
I writ at random, very doubtfully.
I' th' eyes of heaven and to you- I mean
I'd not believe thee. Henceforth guard thee well;
I'll after, more to be reveng'd on Eglamour
I'll be a curer of madmen. Here's Agamemnon, an honest fellow
I'll be as patient as a gentle stream,
I'll be so bold to break the seal for once.          [Reads]
I'll be sworn, I have sat in the stock for puddings he hath
I'll bring you to a captain in this town,
I'll commend you to my master.
I'll frush it and unlock the rivets all
I'll geld 'em all; fourteen they shall not see
I'll get me one of such another length.
I'll get me such a colour'd periwig.
I'll give him reasons for't. Hie thee, Malvolio.
I'll give no blemish to her honour, none.
I'll give you something else.
I'll haunt thee like a wicked conscience still,
I'll kill thee everywhere, yea, o'er and o'er.
I'll kiss each several paper for amends.
I'll leave you to confer of home affairs;
I'll lend you something. My having is not much;
I'll make division of my present with you;
I'll no gainsaying.
I'll ride your horse as well as I ride you.
I'll sacrifice the lamb that I do love
I'll show't the King, and undertake to be
I'll stand to-day for thee and me and Troy.
I'll through and through you. And, thou great-siz'd coward,
I'll use thee kindly for thy mistress' sake,
I'll woo you like a soldier, at arms' end,
I, sir. God buy you, good Sir Topas.- Marry, amen.- I will sir, I
If I be not by her fair influence
If I can check my erring love, I will;
If I do feign, you witnesses above
If I had such a tire, this face of mine
If I in thought felt not her very sorrow.
If I keep them, I needs must lose myself;
If I lose them, thus find I by their loss:
If I prove honey-mouth'd, let my tongue blister,
If Proteus like your journey when you come,
If beauty have a soul, this is not she;
If crooked fortune had not thwarted me.
If ever I were wilfull-negligent,
If ever danger do environ thee,
If from me he have wholesome beverage,
If haply won, perhaps a hapless gain;
If in his death the gods have us befriended;
If it be thus to dream, still let me sleep!
If it please the eye of one, it is with me as the very true
If lost, why then a grievous labour won;
If not, how best to bear it.
If not, to compass her I'll use my skill.               Exit
If not, to hide what I have said to thee,
If not, we'll make you sit, and rifle you.
If one should be a prey, how much the better
If sad and merry madness equal be.
If sanctimony be the god's delight,
If she be so abandon'd to her sorrow
If she be.
If she dares trust me with her little babe,
If she do chide, 'tis not to have you gone,
If she do frown, 'tis not in hate of you,
If so, I pray thee breathe it in mine ear,
If souls guide vows, if vows be sanctimonies,
If spirits can assume both form and suit,
If that be all the difference in his love,
If that the injuries be justly weigh'd
If that the youth will come this way to-morrow,
If that this simple syllogism will serve, so; if it will not,
If the good truth were known.
If there be rule in unity itself,
If therefore you dare trust my honesty,
If this be he you oft have wish'd to hear from.
If this be nothing.
If this be so, as yet the glass seems true,
If this fond Love were not a blinded god?
If this letter move him not, his legs cannot. I'll give't him.
If this prove true, they'll pay for 't. By mine honour,
If thou dar'st tempt me further, draw thy sword.     [Draws]
If thou inclin'st that way, thou art a coward,
If thou wilt, go with me to the alehouse; if not, thou art an
If we recover that, we are sure enough.               Exeunt
If we would have you.
If with his tongue he cannot win a woman.
If you first sinn'd with us, and that with us
If you have stomach. The general state, I fear,
If you know aught which does behove my knowledge
If you offend him, I for him defy you.
If you will lead these graces to the grave,
Imparts this; which, if you- or stupified
In Ilion on your Greekish embassy.
In a disguise of love.
In beastly sort, dragg'd through the shameful field.
In being so blest! There may be in the cup
In breaking faith with Julia whom I lov'd;
In characters as red as Mars his heart
In every one of these no man is free
In faith, they are as true of heart as we.
In favour was my brother; and he went
In fellest manner execute your arms.
In having known no travel in his youth.
In his descent than shall my prompted sword
In ignorant concealment.
In my green velvet coat; my dagger muzzl'd,
In my just censure, in my true opinion!
In nature there's no blemish but the mind:
In private brabble did we apprehend him.
In recompense whereof he hath married her.
In that be made more bitter. Fear o'ershades me.
In that which seems so.
In the contempt and anger of his lip!
In the protection of his son, her brother,
In the south suburbs, at the Elephant,
In the sweet pangs of it remember me;
In these affairs to aid me with thy counsel.
In this uncivil and unjust extent
In this which you accuse her.
In those foundations which I build upon,
In those unfledg'd days was my wife a girl;
In thy opinion which is worthiest love?
In voices well divulg'd, free, learn'd, and valiant,
In what place of the field doth Calchas keep?
In whose success we are gentle- I beseech you,
In women's waxen hearts to set their forms!
In your denial I would find no sense;
Inch-thick, knee-deep, o'er head and ears a fork'd one!
Inclining to them both. Were my wife's liver
Inconstancy falls off ere it begins.
Infected as her life, she would not live
Infirmity, that decays the wise, doth ever make the better fool.
Inflam'd with Venus. Never did young man fancy
Inhabits in the finest wits of all.
Inhabits our frail blood.
Injurious wasps, to feed on such sweet honey
Instance, O instance! strong as Pluto's gates:
Instance, O instance! strong as heaven itself:
Into a goodly bulk. Good time encounter her!
Into a thousand oaths; and all those oaths
Into the chantry by; there, before him
Into the danger of this adverse town;
Invites me in this churlish messenger.
Is as the maiden's organ, shrill and sound,
Is best to lodge. I will bespeak our diet,
Is by a newer object quite forgotten.
Is creeping toward me; how far off, how near;
Is eaten by the canker ere it blow,
Is else devoted, I am but a shadow;
Is for a precious creature; as she's rare,
Is for my better grace. Adieu, my lord.
Is full of virtue, bounty, worth, and qualities
Is goads, thorns, nettles, tails of wasps;
Is gone with her along; and I must after,
Is it my mind, or Valentinus' praise,
Is leaning cheek to cheek? Is meeting noses?
Is never free of. But, beseech your Grace,
Is nor of heaven nor earth, for these are pleas'd;
Is not infected; but if one present
Is not more smooth and rubious; thy small pipe
Is not this suit of mine, that thou declare
Is now in durance, at Malvolio's suit,
Is perjured to the bosom? Proteus,
Is pil'd upon his faith and will continue
Is privilege for thy departure hence.
Is self from self, a deadly banishment.
Is that the meaning of 'accost'?
Is the obedience to a master; one
Is thicker than a cuckold's horn- or heard-
Is turn'd to folly, blasting in the bud,
Is't possible that my deserts to you
It did come to his hands, and commands shall be executed.
It follows not that she will love Sir Thurio.
It is a bawdy planet, that will strike
It is as fat and fulsome to mine ear
It is decreed Hector the great must die.                   Exeunt
It is the lesser blot, modesty finds,
It is too hard a knot for me t' untie!                  Exit
It is your pleasure to command me in.
It may be worth thy pains, for I can sing
It might have since been answer'd in repaying
It shall become thee well to act my woes:
It should be challeng'd.
It should be now, but that my fear is this,
It was my folly; if industriously
It were a shame to call her back again,
It will let in and out the enemy
It would be much vexation to your age.
Its tenderness, and make itself a pastime
Jove's doing, and Jove make me thankful! And when she went away
Jove, I thank thee. I will smile; I will do everything that thou
Julia I lose, and Valentine I lose;
Julia, farewell!                                  Exit JULIA
Keep Hector company an hour or two.
Keep this remembrance for thy Julia's sake.
Kept in a dark house, visited by the priest,
Kill what I love?- a savage jealousy
Kissing with inside lip? Stopping the career
Know then, I here forget all former griefs,
Know what it is to meet Achilles angry.
Know, worthy prince, Sir Valentine, my friend,
Knowing that tender youth is soon suggested,
Known and allied to yours.
Labouring for destiny, make cruel way
Lady, you are the cruell'st she alive,
Leave not the mansion so long tenantless,
Lest barbarism, making me the precedent,
Lest he should take exceptions to my love;
Lest it should bite its master and so prove,
Lest it should burn above the bounds of reason.
Lest it should ravel and be good to none,
Lest she should be denied.
Lest that it make me so unsound a man
Lest that the treachery of the two fled hence
Lest your displeasure should enlarge itself
Lest, growing ruinous, the building fall
Let Titan rise as early as he dare,
Let all untruths stand by thy stained name,
Let fancy still my sense in Lethe steep;
Let grow thy sinews till their knots be strong,
Let him have knowledge who I am.              Exit GENTLEMAN
Let him that will a screech-owl aye be call'd
Let me alone. How do you, Malvolio? How is't with you? What, man,
Let me be blest to make this happy close;
Let me not live to look upon your Grace.
Let me not shame respect; but give me leave
Let that suffice. I have trusted thee, Camillo,
Let thy fair wisdom, not thy passion, sway
Let us into the city presently
Let villainy itself forswear't. I must
Let what is dear in Sicily be cheap;
Let's leave the hermit Pity with our mother;
Let's tune, and to it lustily awhile.
Life every man holds dear; but the dear man
Like an Olympian wrestling. This have I seen;
Like exhibition thou shalt have from me.
Like the old age.
Like to the Egyptian thief at point of death,
Like witless antics, one another meet,
Live you the marble-breasted tyrant still;
Lo, here in one line is his name twice writ:
Longer than swiftest expedition
Look how thou diest. Look how thy eye turns pale.
Look how thy wounds do bleed at many vents.
Look on her, mark her well; be but about
Look on me with your welkin eye. Sweet villain!
Look, here is writ 'kind Julia.' Unkind Julia,
Losing his verdure even in the prime,
Lov'd as he loves himself; even now I met him
Love bade me swear, and Love bids me forswear.
Love hath chas'd sleep from my enthralled eyes
Love make his heart of flint that you shall love;
Love sought is good, but given unsought is better.
Love thee as our commander and our king.
Love, lend me patience to forbear awhile.
Love, lend me wings to make my purpose swift,
Love-thoughts lie rich when canopied with bow'rs.
Lusty, and like to live. The Queen receives
Mad and fantastic execution,
Madam Julia?
Madam, 'twas Ariadne passioning
Madam, madam!
Made me neglect my studies, lose my time,
Made up to th' deed- doth push on this proceeding.
Made use and fair advantage of his days:
Made wit with musing weak, heart sick with thought.
Make me not sighted like the basilisk;
Make tigers tame, and huge leviathans
Make wells and Niobes of the maids and wives,
Makes all these bodements.
Makes me the better to confer with thee.
Makes me to ask you for my purse? It grieves me
Maliciously like poison. But I cannot
Marian, I say! a stoup of wine.
Mark it, Cesario; it is old and plain;
Mark what I say. Attend me where I wheel;
May a free face put on; derive a liberty
May hold together. On her frights and griefs,
May live at peace. He shall conceal it
May rather pluck on laughter than revenge,
Mayst smile at this. Thou shalt not choose but go;
Meaning henceforth to trouble you no more.
Messaline whom I know you have heard of. He left behind him
Methinks I feel this youth's perfections
Methinks my zeal to Valentine is cold,
Methinks, should not be chronicled for wise.
Methought it did relieve my passion much,
Methought she purg'd the air of pestilence!
Might well have given us bloody argument.
Minds sway'd by eyes are full of turpitude.                  Exit
Mine eye too great a flatterer for my mind.
Mine honour keeps the weather of my fate.
Mine own escape unfoldeth to my hope,
Mine shall not do his Julia so much wrong.
Mistress Mall's picture? Why dost thou not go to church in a
Mock not that I affect the untraded oath;
Moist it again, and frame some feeling line
More fresh in Julia's with a constant eye?
More longing, wavering, sooner lost and won,
More sharp than filed steel, did spur me forth;
More than I love these eyes, more than my life,
More than light airs and recollected terms
More than quick words do move a woman's mind.
More than the common blocks. Not noted, is't,
More, by all mores, than e'er I shall love wife.
More, she's a traitor; and Camillo is
Most dear'st! my collop! Can thy dam?- may't be?
Most excellent accomplish'd lady, the heavens rain odours on you!
Most freely I confess myself and Toby
Most gentle and most valiant Hector, welcome.
Most of our city did. Only myself stood out;
Most piteous to be wild- I have dispatch'd in post
Most provident in peril, bind himself-
Most reverend Nestor, I am glad to clasp thee.
Most venerable worth, did I devotion.
Much comfort in't; says 'My poor prisoner,
Much in our vows, but little in our love.
Much is the force of heaven-bred poesy.
Much less shall she that hath Love's wings to fly,
Much more for what I cannot do for you
Muse not that I thus suddenly proceed;
Must it be great; and, as his person's mighty,
Must it be violent; and as he does conceive
Must kiss their own feet.
My bosom likes not, nor my brows! Mamillius,
My brother he is in Elysium.
My chamber-councils, wherein, priest-like, thou
My duty pricks me on to utter that
My famous cousin to our Grecian tents.
My father had a daughter lov'd a man,
My father stays my coming; answer not;
My favour here begins to warp. Not speak?
My foolish rival, that her father likes
My fortunes to your service, which are here
My goods, my lands, my reputation;
My half-supp'd sword, that frankly would have fed,
My health and happy being at your court.
My is nothing; nor nothing have these nothings,
My last good deed was to entreat his stay;
My life upon't, young though thou art, thine eye
My lord and master loves you- O, such love
My lord, so please you, these things further thought on,
My love can give no place, bide no denay.             Exeunt
My love with words and errors still she feeds,
My love without retention or restraint,
My major vow lies here, this I'll obey.
My master sues to her; and she hath taught her suitor,
My master, not myself, lacks recompense.
My parasite, my soldier, statesman, all.
My penance is to call Lucetta back
My people did expect my hence departure
My plight requires it. Do not weep, good fools;
My present vengeance taken. Shrew my heart!
My prisoner or my guest? By your dread 'verily,'
My prophecy is but half his journey yet;
My rest and negligence befriends thee now,
My riches are these poor habiliments,
My sacred aunt, should by my mortal sword
My soul the faithfull'st off'rings hath breath'd out
My sovereign mistress clouded so, without
My state is desperate for my master's love;
My substance should be statue in thy stead.
My sword should bite it. Not the dreadful spout
My wife is slippery? If thou wilt confess-
My wife's a hobby-horse, deserves a name
My women may be with me, for you see
Myself am one made privy to the plot.
Myself in counsel, his competitor.
Myself thus alter'd with't.
Myself was from Verona banished
Myself, my servant, and, I fear me, you.
Nature's own sweet and cunning hand laid on.
Nay, but first let me see, let me see, let me see.
Nay, hated too, worse than the great'st infection
Nay, let me have't; I long.
Nay, take them.                      [Gives hack the letter]
Neither regarding that she is my child
Nestor, and that same dog-fox, Ulysses -is not prov'd worth a
Never go home; here starve we out the night.
Never like thee. O, let an old man embrace thee;
Next to thyself and my young rover, he's
No barricado for a belly. Know't,
No bourn 'twixt his and mine; yet were it true
No court in Europe is too good for thee;
No grief did ever come so near thy heart
No int'rim, not a minute's vacancy,
No matter who's displeas'd when you are gone.
No more of stay; to-morrow thou must go.
No motion of the liver, but the palate-
No sneaping winds at home, to make us say
No space of earth shall sunder our two hates;
No, by the flame of yonder glorious heaven,
No, not the Duke's.
No? wilt thou not? I like thy armour well;
None can be call'd deform'd but the unkind.
None of my lord's ring! Why, he sent her none.
Nor are you therein, by my life, deceiv'd;
Nor brass, nor stone, nor parchment, bears not one,
Nor can there be that deity in my nature
Nor fearing me as if I were her father;
Nor hold him up with hopes; I am not for him.
Nor how my father would enforce me marry
Nor know I you by voice or any feature.
Nor to his service no such joy on earth.
Nor wit nor reason can my passion hide.
Nor you, my brother, with your true sword drawn,
Not Priamus and Hecuba on knees,
Not being tried and tutor'd in the world:
Not fate, obedience, nor the hand of Mars
Not half an hour before.
Not letting it decline on the declined;
Not like a guest; so you shall pay your fees
Not meaning to partake with me in danger,
Not three hours' travel from this very place.
Not weighing well the end; if ever fearful
Nothing but lechery! All incontinent varlets!                Exit
Nothing that is so is so.
Notorious wrong.
Now Valentine is banish'd from her sight.
Now can I break my fast, dine, sup, and sleep,
Now come I to my father: 'Father, your blessing.' Now should not
Now go with me and with this holy man
Now here he fights on Galathe his horse,
Now is my day's work done; I'll take good breath:
Now kiss, embrace, contend, do what you will.
Now my sworn friend, and then mine enemy;
Now no discourse, except it be of love;
Now presently I'll give her father notice
Now tell me, Proteus, what's your will with me?
Now while I speak this, holds his wife by th' arm
Now will he interpret to her.
Now, Hector, I have fed mine eyes on thee;
Now, by the honour of my ancestry,
Now, good Cesario, but that piece of song,
Now, good sir,
Now, therefore, would I have thee to my tutor-
Now, trust me, 'tis an office of great worth,
O Proteus, let this habit make thee blush!
O Time, thou must untangle this, not I;
O excellent device! Was there ever heard a better,
O gentle Proteus, Love's a mighty lord,
O hateful hands, to tear such loving words!
O heavenly Julia!
O spirit of love, how quick and fresh art thou!
O sweet-suggesting Love, if thou hast sinn'd,
O that our fathers would applaud our loves,
O thou that dost inhabit in my breast,
O world, how apt the poor are to be proud!
O! but I love his lady too too much,
O, 'tis the curse in love, and still approv'd,
O, heaven be judge how I love Valentine,
O, how this spring of love resembleth
O, it came o'er my ear like the sweet sound
O, welcome, father!
O, when mine eyes did see Olivia first,
Of Count Orsino.
Of all that may concern thy love affairs.
Of bloody turbulence, and this whole night
Of breaking honesty. Horsing foot on foot?
Of charity, what kin are you to me?
Of commendations sent from Valentine,
Of every syllable that here was spoke.
Of good Polixenes; and my ground to do't
Of great estate, of fresh and stainless youth;
Of greater time than I shall show to be.
Of head-piece extraordinary? Lower messes
Of her o'er-eaten faith, are bound to Diomed.
Of here and everywhere. I had a sister
Of his ill-ta'en suspicion! Come, Camillo;
Of laughter with a sigh?- a note infallible
Of much good news?
Of my boy's face, methoughts I did recoil
Of my lord's tricks and yours when you were boys.
Of my young playfellow.
Of our dear souls. Meantime, sweet sister,
Of our most gracious mistress.
Of our rank feud; but the just gods gainsay
Of place, time, fortune, do cohere and jump
Of sprites and goblins.
Of stuff'd sufficiency. Now, from the oracle
Of such divine perfection, as Sir Proteus.
Of the whole dungy earth.
Of thee and me, and sighs, and takes my glove,
Of their disguising and pretended flight,
Of these most brisk and giddy-paced times.
Of thine own cause.
Of this diseas'd opinion, and betimes;
Of this make no conclusion, lest you say
Of this strange nature, that a thing inseparate
Of thousands that had struck anointed kings
Of thy success in love, and what news else
Of what I feel. I am all patience.
Of what validity and pitch soe'er,
Of which if you should here disfurnish me,
Of you that yet are well.
Offic'd with me. We two will walk, my lord,
Often resort unto this gentlewoman?
Omitting the sweet benefit of time
On Thurio, whom your gentle daughter hates;
On his behalf.
On silly women or poor passengers.
On the fair Cressid.
On whose bright crest Fame with her loud'st Oyes
On your command.
On, Myrmidons, and cry you an amain
Once in a sea-fight 'gainst the Count his galleys
Once more adieu. My father at the road
Once more, Cesario,
One Julia, that his changing thoughts forget,
One day shall crown th' alliance on't, so please you,
One feast, one house, one mutual happiness!     Exeunt
One of them you shall be.
One of these days; and then you'd wanton with us,
One that attends your ladyship's command.
Only deserve my love by loving him.
Only for his possessions are so huge,
Only shape thou silence to my wit.
Only, in lieu thereof, dispatch me hence.
Oppos'd to hinder me, should stop my way,
Or I am mad, or else this is a dream.
Or I am much deceiv'd, cuckolds ere now;
Or I mistake you. O, would her name were Grace!
Or a half-moon made with a pen.
Or any taint of vice whose strong corruption
Or as one nail by strength drives out another,
Or breed upon our absence, that may blow
Or bring him off. Fate, hear me what I say:
Or else I often had been miserable.
Or else a hovering temporizer that
Or else a wit by folly vanquished.
Or else be impudently negative,
Or else for want of idle time, could not again reply;
Or else return no more into my sight.
Or else the lady's mad; yet if 'twere so,
Or fearing else some messenger that might her mind discover,
Or may I never-
Or ne'er return again into my sight.
Or say 'tis not your seal, not your invention;
Or seeming so in skill- cannot or will not
Or thou wert born a fool. Camillo's flight,
Or thy affection cannot hold the bent;
Or will not else thy craft so quickly grow
Or, at the least, in hers sepulchre thine.
Or, if you cannot weep, yet give some groans,
Orsino's enemy. A witchcraft drew me hither:
Orsino's mistress, and his fancy's queen.
Our fancies are more giddy and unfirm,
Our forceful instigation? Our prerogative
Our gentry than our parents' noble names,
Our praises are our wages; you may ride's
Our shows are more than will; for still we prove
Our youth got me to play the woman's part,
Out at the postern by the abbey wall;
Out of my lean and low ability
Pardon me, madam; I have unadvis'd
Pardon me, sweet one, even for the vows
Paris, 'loo! The bull has the game. Ware horns, ho!
Parson; for what is 'that' but that, and 'is' but is?
Partly that I have need of such a youth
Patroclus ta'en, or slain; and Palamedes
Patroclus' wounds have rous'd his drowsy blood,
Patroclus, let us feast him to the height.
Peace! here she comes.
Peg-a-Ramsey, and                                    [Sings]
Perchance are to this business purblind? Say.
Perchance he is not drown'd- what think you, sailors?
Perchance shall dry your pities- but I have
Persuades when speaking fails.
Pity the dearth that I have pined in
Plac'd in contempt! Farewell, fair cruelty.             Exit
Plainly as heaven sees earth and earth sees heaven,
Play too; but so disgrac'd a part, whose issue
Plead a new state in thy unrivall'd merit,
Pleas'd with this dainty bait, thus goes to bed.
Please you command, a thousand times as much;
Please you t' accept it- that the Queen is spotless
Please you, deliberate a day or two.
Pleases me best.
Plight me the fun assurance of your faith,
Plotted and 'greed on for my happiness.
Polixenes for Leontes. O thou thing!
Poor gentlewoman, my master wrongs her much.
Poor lady, she were better love a dream.
Poor wounded name! my bosom,,as a bed,
Praise her but for this her without-door form,
Prefix'd for's parting.- Yet, good deed, Leontes,
Present our services to a fine new prince
Present the fair steed to my lady Cressid.
Prince Mamillius; it is a gentleman of the greatest promise that
Privy to none of this. How will this grieve you,
Prizes not quantity of dirty lands;
Profess'd to him, why, his revenges must
Promotion follows. If I could find example
Pronounce thee a gross lout, a mindless slave,
Properly ours.
Proteus for going ungarter'd!
Proteus to the Imperial's court. I think Crab my dog be the
Proteus, the good conceit I hold of thee-
Proud, disobedient, stubborn, lacking duty;
Prove true, imagination, O, prove true,
Prove violence, in the which three great ones suffer,
Provided that you do no outrages
Provided that, when he's remov'd, your Highness
Provokes me to this threefold perjury:
Punish my life for tainting of my love!
Pursue thy life and live aye with thy name!
Pursue we him on knees; for I have dreamt
Put forth their sons to seek preferment out:
Quinapalus? 'Better a witty fool than a foolish wit.' God bless
Rather than have false Proteus rescue me.
Rather than make unprofited return.
Read on.
Read over Julia's heart, thy first best love,
Receiveth as the sea, nought enters there,
Receiving them from such a worthless post.              Exit
Recking as little what betideth me
Refuse it not; it hath no tongue to vex you.
Regard thy danger, and along with me.
Reliev'd him with such sanctity of love,
Relish a truth like us, inform yourselves
Remain a pinch'd thing; yea, a very trick
Rememb'ring that my love to her is dead;
Repair me with thy presence, Silvia:
Resides not in that man that does not think-
Rest, sword; thou hast thy fill of blood and death!
Return, return, and make thy love amends.
Reveals before 'tis ripe- what thou dost know
Roaring for Troilus; who hath done to-day
Rough and unhospitable. My willing love,
Rudesby, be gone!
Runs on the dexter cheek, and this sinister
Sad sighs, deep groans, nor silver-shedding tears,
Save in the constant image of the creature
Saw I men scour so on their way. I ey'd them
Say 'ay' and be the captain of us all.
Say that some lady, as perhaps there is,
Scare Troy out of itself. But, march away;
Seal'd in my function, by my testimony;
Sebastian, I have entertained thee
See where she comes. Lady, a happy evening!
Send her another; never give her o'er,
Send one presently to Sir Toby.
Send to me in the morning, and I'll send it;
Servant, you are welcome to a worthless mistress.
Set forth in your pursuit.
Set this device against Malvolio here,
Shall I be your playfellow?
Shall I destroy him? Whether there, or there, or there?
Shall I not lie in publishing a truth?
Shall bear along impawn'd, away to-night.
Shall best instruct you, measure me; and so
Shall bring Emilia forth.
Shall dizzy with more clamour Neptune's ear
Shall find him by his large and portly size.
Shall lodge thee till thy wound be throughly heal'd;
Shall mistress be of it, save I alone.
Shall not behold her face at ample view;
Shall stop or spur me. Have I done well?
Shall we go see the reliques of this town?
She bids me think how I have been forsworn
She could not sway her house, command her followers,
She dreams on him that has forgot her love:
She is alone.
She is dead, belike?
She is fair; and so is Julia that I love-
She is my essence, and I leave to be
She is, something before her time, deliver'd.
She lov'd me well deliver'd it to me.
She loves me, sure: the cunning of her passion
She made good view of me; indeed, so much
She sat like Patience on a monument,
She shall be dignified with this high honour-
She shall not long continue love to him.
She twits me with my falsehood to my friend;
She was belov'd, she lov'd; she is, and doth;
She will attend it better in thy youth
She will not fail, for lovers break not hours
She's an adultress.
She's an adultress; I have said with whom.
She's fled unto that peasant Valentine;
She's otherwise, I'll keep my stables where
She's well, but bade me not commend her to you.
She, in my judgment, was as fair as you;
Shepherdesses
Should a like language use to all degrees
Should be full-fraught with serviceable vows.
Should censure thus on lovely gentlemen.
Should from her vesture chance to steal a kiss
Should have been cherish'd by her childlike duty,
Should not produce fair issue.
Should yet say 'Sir, no going.' Verily,
Shows Julia but a swarthy Ethiope.
Sicilia.
Silvia, I speak to you, and you, Sir Thurio;
Silvia, which, out of my neglect, was never done.
Since I am charg'd in honour, and by him
Since I have lost thee!
Since first I saw yourself and Diomed
Since lowly feigning was call'd compliment.
Since maids, in modesty, say 'No' to that
Since she respects my mistress' love so much.
Since their more mature dignities and royal necessities made
Since when, my watch hath told me, toward my grave,
Since you to non-regardance cast my faith,
Sir Eglamour, I would to Valentine,
Sir Proteus, to wreath your arms like a malcontent; to relish a
Sir Smile, his neighbour. Nay, there's comfort in't,
Sir Toby the whilst.                                    Exit
Sir Valentine her company and my court;
Sir Valentine, your father is in good health.
Sir, shall I to this lady?
Sit, gods, upon your thrones, and smile at Troy.
Sith yet there is a credence in my heart,
Skulking in corners? Wishing clocks more swift;
Slaughters a thousand waiting upon that.
Smiling at grief. Was not this love indeed?
So big to hold so much; they lack retention.
So bold Leander would adventure it.
So easily open?
So far beneath your soft and tender breeding,
So far exceed all instance, all discourse,
So leaves me to consider what is breeding
So long as I could see.
So meet for this great errand. Please your ladyship
So much against the mettle of your sex,
So much by weight hate I her Diomed.
So much of bad already hath possess'd them.
So much they spur their expedition.
So soon as yours could win me. So it should now,
So sovereignly being honourable.
So sways she level in her husband's heart.
So the remembrance of my former love
So went he suited to his watery tomb;
So, Ilion, fall thou next! Come, Troy, sink down;
Soft! here comes sleeve, and t'other.
Some galled goose of Winchester would hiss.
Some mollification for your giant, sweet lady.
Some necessaries that I needs must use;
Some rare noteworthy object in thy travel.
Some to discover islands far away;
Some to the studious universities.
Some to the wars, to try their fortune there;
Some two months hence my will shall here be made.
Sometime puts forth. In your affairs, my lord,
Sophy.
Sore hurt and bruis'd. The dreadful Sagittary
Sot, didst see Dick Surgeon, sot?
Sovereign to all the creatures on the earth.
Spur them to ruthful work, rein them from ruth!
Stand fast and wear a castle on thy head.
Stay yet. You vile abominable tents,
Stealing and giving odour! Enough, no more;
Still in this fashion, colour, ornament,
Still neighbour mine. My ships are ready, and
Strain'd purely from all hollow bias-drawing,
Strength'ned by interchangement of your rings;
Strike a free march to Troy. With comfort go;
Strike not a stroke, but keep yourselves in breath;
Such a Sebastian was my brother too;
Such an immodest raiment- if shame live
Such as the fury of ungovern'd youth
Surprise her with discourse of my dear faith!
Survives, to whom, thyself art witness,
Sweet lady, entertain him for your servant.
Sweet ornament that decks a thing divine!
Sweet sink, sweet sewer!
Taint the condition of this present hour,
Take and give back affairs and their dispatch
Take but possession of her with a touch-
Take him away; he knows I know him well.
Take no repulse, whatever she doth say;
Take thou thy Silvia, for thou hast deserv'd her.
Talkest thou nothing but of ladies?
Tarry I here, I but attend on death;
Taught him to face me out of his acquaintance,
Taunt him with the license of ink; if thou thou'st him some
Teach me, thy tempted subject, to excuse it!
Tell her I have chastis'd the amorous Troyan,
Tell her I hold as giddily as Fortune;
Tell her my love, more noble than the world,
Tell me how thy lady does.
Tempests are kind, and salt waves fresh in love!        Exit
Temptations have since then been born to 's, for
Th' abhorr'd ingredient to his eye, make known
Th' access of gentle visitors! Is't lawful, pray you,
Th' effect doth operate another way.
Th' entreaties of your mistress! Satisfy!
Th' offences we have made you do we'll answer,
Th' other for some while a friend.
Than for the love of reckless Silvia.                   Exit
Than hate for Silvia, that is gone for love.            Exit
Than hate of Eglamour, that goes with her.              Exit
Than in a nuncio's of more grave aspect.
Than love that would seem hid: love's night is noon.
Than lying, vainness, babbling drunkenness,
Than music from the spheres.
Than one condemn'd by the King's own mouth, thereon
Than plural faith, which is too much by one.
Than spotted livers in the sacrifice.
Than these two creatures. Which is Sebastian?
Than this; which to reiterate were sin
Than what I know, yet shall the oracle
Than what befalls myself. You stand amaz'd;
Than when I feel and see her no farther trust her;
Than women's are.
Than you can put us to't.
Than you have heard him brag to you he will.
Than you to punish.
Than, by concealing it, heap on your head
Than, living dully sluggardiz'd at home,
Thank me for this more than for all the favours
That I am Viola; which to confirm,
That I am desperate of obtaining her.
That I am ready to distrust mine eyes
That I despise thee for thy wrongful suit,
That I did love, for now my love is thaw'd;
That I had any light from thee of this.
That I have done for you.
That I have said to some my standers-by
That I have wept a hundred several times.
That I may give the local wound a name,
That I may venture to depart alone.
That I think honourable. Therefore mark my counsel,
That I, dear brother, be now ta'en for you!
That I, unworthy body as I am,
That Nature pranks her in attracts my soul.
That Silvia at Friar Patrick's cell should meet me.
That all the travellers do fear so much.
That any did. Had we pursu'd that life,
That any drop thou borrow'dst from thy mother,
That art a votary to fond desire?
That breathes upon a bank of violets,
That calumny doth use- O, I am out!-
That can with some discretion do my business,
That cause sets up with and against itself!
That changes thus his manners.
That comes before his eye. This is a practice
That danger shall seem sport, and I will go.            Exit
That day that made my sister thirteen years.
That died some twelvemonth since, then leaving her
That do renown this city.
That done, our day of marriage shall be yours;
That doth invert th' attest of eyes and ears;
That e'er I watch'd, and the most heaviest.           Exeunt
That e'er devotion tender'd! What shall I do?
That e'er invention play'd on? Tell me why.
That e'er was heard or read!
That every day with parle encounter me,
That flies her fortune when it follows her.
That go before it.
That go or tarry.
That has been blue, but not her eyebrows.
That hast deceiv'd so many with thy vows?
That hast so long walk'd hand in hand with time.
That hath revolted wives, the tenth of mankind
That have on both sides pass'd.
That he believes himself; so do not I.
That he did range the town to seek me out.
That he did seek the love of fair Olivia.
That he did stay?
That heart which now abhors to like his love.         Exeunt
That honour sav'd may upon asking give?
That honourable grief lodg'd here which burns
That instant was I turn'd into a hart,
That is belov'd. How dost thou like this tune?
That is deceivable. But here the lady comes.
That it alone is high fantastical.
That it but mocks reproof.
That lack'd sight only, nought for approbation
That leads toward Mantua, whither they are fled.
That lies enclosed in this trunk which you
That like a testy babe will scratch the nurse,
That little thinks she has been sluic'd in's absence,
That live in her; when liver, brain, and heart,
That longs for everything that he can come by.
That makes me reasonless to reason thus?
That makes thee strangle thy propriety.
That man that hath a tongue, I say, is no man,
That may discover such integrity;
That mercy does, for calumny will sear
That methought her eyes had lost her tongue,
That most ingrateful boy there by your side
That mouldeth goblins swift as frenzy's thoughts.
That my discovery be not aimed at;
That my master, being scribe, to himself should write the letter?
That my most jealous and too doubtful soul
That my poor mistress, moved therewithal,
That no man hath access by day to her.
That no man hath recourse to her by night.
That noseless, handless, hack'd and chipp'd, come to
That now she is become as black as I.
That old and antique song we heard last night;
That presently you hie you home to bed.
That proof is call'd impossibility.
That say thou art a man: Diana's lip
That screws me from my true place in your favour,
That seest a game play'd home, the rich stake drawn,
That severs day from night.
That sleeve is mine that he'll bear on his helm;
That sometime savours nobly. But hear me this:
That stays to bear my letters to my friends,
That strain again! It had a dying fall;
That suffer surfeit, cloyment, and revolt;
That they may fairly note this act of mine!           Exeunt
That they may hold excus'd our lawless lives;
That thine own trip shall be thine overthrow?
That this great soldier may his welcome know.
That this may be some error, but no madness,
That thus without advice begin to love her!
That tide will stay me longer than I should.
That to close prison he commanded her,
That took the Phoenix and her fraught from Candy;
That touch me near, wherein thou must be secret.
That tyrannous heart can think? To one of your receiving
That us'd me so; or else, by Jove I vow,
That very envy and the tongue of los
That very oft we pity enemies.
That vulgars give bold'st titles; ay, and privy
That wails her absence?
That wait for execution in the morn.
That what he will he does, and does so much
That which thyself hast now disclos'd to me.
That will allow me very worth his service.
That will be damn'd for't. Would I knew the villain!
That will say anything. But were they false
That with his very heart despiseth me?
That would be rid of such an enemy.
That would have forc'd your honour and your love.
That would unseen be wicked- is this nothing?
That you might kill your stomach on your meat
That you shall say my cunning drift excels.
That you will wonder what hath fortuned.
That your free undertaking cannot miss
That, notwithstanding thy capacity
That, were I ta'en here, it would scarce be answer'd.
The County's man. He left this ring behind him,
The Grecians' cause.
The King's will be perform'd!
The Queen your mother rounds apace. We shall
The air hath starv'd the roses in her cheeks
The appetite may sicken and so die.
The bonds of heaven are slipp'd, dissolv'd, and loos'd;
The by-gone day proclaim'd. Say this to him,
The centre is not big enough to bear
The clock upbraids me with the waste of time.
The covering sky is nothing; Bohemia nothing;
The cur is excellent at faults.
The current that with gentle murmur glides,
The doctrine of ill-doing, nor dream'd
The eating canker dwells, so eating love
The element itself, till seven years' heat,
The error of our eye directs our mind.
The execution of it shall make known:
The fabric of his folly, whose foundation
The fall of every Phrygian stone will cost
The form of my intent. I'll serve this duke:
The fractions of her faith, orts of her love,
The fragments, scraps, the bits, and greasy relics
The gracious Queen, part of this theme, but nothing
The honour and regard of such a father.
The injury of tongues in courts and kingdoms
The instruments that feel.
The issue is embracement. Ajax, farewell.
The justice of your hearts will thereto ad
The key whereof myself have ever kept;
The keys of all the posterns. Please your Highness
The ladder made of cords, and all the means
The law of friendship bids me to conceal;
The least whereof would quell a lover's hope,
The letter, at Sir Toby's great importance,
The like of him. Know'st thou this country?
The loose encounters of lascivious men;
The loss, the gain, the ord'ring on't, is all
The love of Valentine, and love Sir Thurio?
The match between Sir Thurio and my daughter.
The more it grows and fawneth on her still.
The mort o' th' deer. O, that is entertainment
The most replenish'd villain in the world,
The next ensuing hour some foul mischance
The nonpareil of beauty!
The one for ever earn'd a royal husband;
The parts that fortune hath bestow'd upon her,
The picture that is hanging in your chamber;
The private wound is deepest. O time most accurst!
The purity and whiteness of my sheets-
The quality of persons, and the time;
The rather by these arguments of fear,
The running of one glass.
The second and the third, nine and some five;
The shepherd's note since we have left our throne
The shrug, the hum or ha, these petty brands
The silence often of pure innocence
The spinsters and the knitters in the sun,
The standing of his body.
The story of your loves discovered.
The thicket is beset; he cannot 'scape.
The tide is now- nay, not thy tide of tears:
The tide whereof is now. Good night, great Hector.
The time now serves not to expostulate.
The time right deadly; I beseech you, go.
The trumpet any more. Pray you, Emilia,
The uncertain glory of an April day,
The venom'd vengeance ride upon our swords,
The verier wag o' th' two?
The water nectar, and the rocks pure gold.
Their eyes o'ergalled with recourse of tears;
Their own particular thrifts, they would do that
Then let her beauty be her wedding-dow'r;
Then let me go, and hinder not my course.
Then tell me whither were I best to send him.
There Diomed doth feast with him to-night,
There in the full convive we; afterwards,
There is a plot against my life, my crown;
There is a thousand Hectors in the field;
There is a word will Priam turn to stone;
There is between my will and all offences
There is no cause; when you shall know your mistress
There is no day for me to look upon.
There is no music in the nightingale;
There is no reason but I shall be blind.
There is no tongue that moves, none, none i' th' world,
There is no woe to his correction,
There is our captain; we'll follow him that's fled.
There lies your way, due west.
There shall he practise tilts and tournaments,
There they stand yet; and modestly I think
There wanteth but a mean to fill your song.
There's another.
There's money for thee; if you tarry longer
There's not a grain of it the face to sweeten
There's some great matter she'd employ me in.
There's something in me that reproves my fault;
There, take the paper; see it be return'd;
There, where we see the lights.
Therefore I know she is about my height.
Therefore be gone; solicit me no more.
Therefore draw for the supportance of his vow; he protests he
Therefore it must with circumstance be spoken
Therefore the office is indifferent,
Therefore, I pray you, stand not to discourse,
Therefore, above the rest, we parley to you.
Therefore, come back.
Therefore, good youth, address thy gait unto her;
Therefore, know thou, for this I entertain thee.
Therefore, sweet Proteus, my direction-giver,
Thereof to be inform'd, imprison't not
These are my mates, that make their wills their law,
These dangerous unsafe lunes i' th' King, beshrew them!
These likelihoods confirm her flight from hence;
These sovereign thrones, are all supplied and fill'd,
They are polluted off'rings, more abhorr'd
They are reformed, civil, full of good,
They love me well; yet I have much to do
They say it is a copy out of mine. Come, Captain,
They say, poor gentleman, he's much distract.
They say, she hath abjur'd the company
They will bring all, whose spiritual counsel had,
Think not I flatter, for I swear I do not-
Think on thy Proteus, when thou haply seest
Think'st thou I am so shallow, so conceitless,
Think'st thou to catch my life so pleasantly
Think, we had mothers; do not give advantage
This Cressida in Troy? Had she no lover there
This fellow were a king for our wild faction!
This is the letter to your ladyship.
This is the ring you sent to Silvia.
This letter. That's her chamber. Tell my lady
This love of theirs myself have often seen,
This morning to them.
This night he meaneth with a corded ladder
This night in banqueting must all be spent.
This night intends to steal away your daughter;
This pearl she gave me, I do feel't and see't;
This practice hath most shrewdly pass'd upon thee,
This proves that thou canst not read.
This ring I gave him, when he parted from me,
This ruffian hath botch'd up, that thou thereby
This shadowy desert, unfrequented woods,
This squash, this gentleman. Mine honest friend,
This was not she. O madness of discourse,
This, or else nothing, will inherit her.
Those at her father's churlish feet she tender'd;
Thou art a gentleman, and well deriv'd;
Thou art not ignorant what dear good will
Thou art too gentle and too free a man.
Thou bear'st my life off hence. Let us avoid.
Thou counterfeit to thy true friend!
Thou crusty batch of nature, what's the news?
Thou dost make possible things not so held,
Thou dost thyself and all our Troy deceive.                  Exit
Thou friend of an ill fashion!
Thou gentle nymph, cherish thy forlorn swain.
Thou hast beguil'd my hopes; nought but mine eye
Thou hast no faith left now, unless thou'dst two,
Thou hast, Sebastian, done good feature shame.
Thou know'st no less but all; I have unclasp'd
Thou know'st not me.
Thou know'st, being stopp'd, impatiently doth rage;
Thou mayst co-join with something; and thou dost-
Thou never shalt mock Diomed again.
Thou never shouldst love woman like to me.
Thou on him leaning, and all Troy on thee,
Thou shalt be both the plaintiff and the judge
Thou shalt be worshipp'd, kiss'd, lov'd, and ador'd!
Thou shalt present me as an eunuch to him;
Thou shouldst not bear from me a Greekish member
Thou subtle, perjur'd, false, disloyal man,
Thou wouldst as soon go kindle fire with snow
Thou, Julia, thou hast metamorphis'd me,
Though I confess, on base and ground enough,
Though he does bear some signs of me, yet you
Though his false finger have profan'd the ring,
Though ne'er so black, say they have angels' faces.
Though not for me, yet for your aching bones.
Though now you have no sea-cap on your head.
Though you perceive me not how I give line.
Though you respect not aught your servant doth,
Though you would seek t' unsphere the stars with oaths,
Though, I confess, much like the character;
Thoughts that would thick my blood.
Three crabbed months had sour'd themselves to death,
Three months this youth hath tended upon me-
Three things that women highly hold in hate.
Through ranks of Greekish youth; and I have seen thee,
Thrust from the company of awful men;
Thus proudly pight upon our Phrygian plains,
Thus will I fold them one upon another;
Thus, for my duty's sake, I rather chose
Thy goodly armour thus hath cost thy life.
Thy letters may be here, though thou art hence,
Thy master now lies thinking on his bed
Thy penitent reform'd; but we have been
Thy tongue, thy face, thy limbs, actions, and spirit,
Thy wife hath dreamt; thy mother hath had visions;
Thyself hast lov'd; and I have heard thee say
Till I had made mine own occasion mellow,
Till I have found each letter in the letter-
Till accident or purpose bring you to't.
Till the last step have brought me to my love;
Till then I'll sweat and seek about for eases,
Till thou have audience.
Till when, go seek thy fortune.                              Exit
Time is the nurse and breeder of all good.
To Mantua, where I hear he makes abode;
To Milan let me hear from thee by letters
To a strong mast that liv'd upon the sea;
To an infected jelly, and my name
To answer such a question. Stand again.
To any happy messenger from thence.
To any other trust but that I am mad,
To appoint myself in this vexation; sully
To be corrupted with my worthless gifts.
To be fantastic may become a youth
To be full like me; yet they say we are
To be my fellow-servant to your ladyship.
To be of worth and worthy estimation,
To be regarded in her sun-bright eye.
To be seduced by thy flattery
To be so ang'red with another letter.                   Exit
To be your prisoner should import offending;
To bear a hard opinion of his truth;
To bear me company and go with me;
To bear my lady's train, lest the base earth
To better purpose.
To bind him to remember my good will;
To bring false generations. They are co-heirs;
To bring me thither?
To bring me where to speak with Madam Silvia.
To call his fortunes thine.
To carry that which I would have refus'd,
To cast up with a pair of anchoring hooks,
To climb celestial Silvia's chamber window,
To close the day up, Hector's life is done.
To clothe mine age with angel-like perfection,
To creep in at mine eyes. Well, let it be.
To cross my friend in his intended drift
To die is to be banish'd from myself,
To die, even when they to perfection grow!
To do a thing where I the issue doubted,
To do you rest, a thousand deaths would die.
To fall before the lion than the wolf!       [Clock strikes]
To feast with me and see me at my tent.
To force that on you in a shameful cunning
To fright me with your sprites; you're pow'rfull at it.
To furnish me upon my longing journey.
To give mine enemy a lasting wink;
To give the onset to thy good advice.
To grant one boon that I shall ask of you.
To harder bosoms! Looking on the lines
To hasten on his expedition.
To hate young Valentine and love my friend.
To have a look of such a worthy mistress.
To have her honour true than your suspicion,
To have nor eyes nor ears nor thought- then say
To hazard life, and rescue you from him
To hear me speak the message I am sent on.
To her allowing husband!
To her in haste. Give her this jewel; say
To her, whose worth makes other worthies nothing;
To hurt by being just. It is as lawful,
To keep in darkness what occasion now
To keep me from a most unholy match,
To keep them from uncivil outrages.
To learn his wit t' exchange the bad for better.
To lesson me and tell me some good mean
To let him spend his time no more at home,
To let him there a month behind the gest
To love fair Silvia, shall I be forsworn;
To make a virtue of necessity,
To make my master out of love with thee.                Exit
To make such means for her as thou hast done
To match my friend Sir Thurio to my daughter.
To me a break-neck. Happy star reign now!
To measure kingdoms with his feeble steps;
To mingle friendship far is mingling bloods.
To pay this debt of love but to a brother,
To plead for that which I would not obtain,
To praise his faith, which I would have disprais'd.
To pray Achilles see us at our tent.
To put apart these your attendants,
To put on yellow stockings, and to frown
To reinforcement, or we perish all.
To sacred Delphos, to Apollo's temple,
To say 'She is a goodly lady' and
To say this boy were like me. Come, sir page,
To seal our happiness with their consents!
To see alike mine honour as their profits,
To see her women- any of them? Emilia?
To see the wonders of the world abroad,
To sort some gentlemen well skill'd in music.
To spite a raven's heart within a dove.
To stop his ears against admonishment?
To stubborn critics, apt, without a theme,
To take a note of what I stand in need of
To take that course by your consent and voice
To take the urgent hour. Come, sir, away.             Exeunt
To tell me how he takes it. Fare you well.
To tell thee that this day is ominous.
To that I'll speak, to that I'll sigh and weep;
To the contrary I have express commandment.
To the expecters of our Troyan part;
To the sweet Julia.' That I'll tear away;
To the sweet glances of thy honour'd love,
To thee the book even of my secret soul.
To think me as well a sister as a wife,
To think upon her woes, I do protest
To this their late escape.
To tire your royalty.
To vice you to't, that you have touch'd his queen
To visit the next room, I'll presently
To which I thus subscribe: Sir Valentine,
To whisper and conspire against my youth?
To whom should this be?
To whose ingrate and unauspicious altars
To woo your lady. [Aside] Yet, a barful strife!
To worship shadows and adore false shapes,
To wrathful terms. This place is dangerous;
To wrong him with thy importunacy?
To wrong my friend, I shall be much forsworn;
To you a charge and trouble. To save both,
To-morrow be in readiness to go-
To-morrow do I meet thee, fell as death;
To-night all friends.
Toby to look to me! This concurs directly with the letter: she
Together with his mangled Myrmidons,
Too much hair there, but in a semicircle
Torment me for my love's forgetfulness!
Trampling contemptuously on thy disdain.
Trenched in ice, which with an hour's heat
Troilus, farewell! One eye yet looks on thee;
Troyan drab, and uses the traitor Calchas' tent. I'll after.
Troyan-now the sleeve, now the sleeve!
Tune a deploring dump- the night's dead silence
Tune my distresses and record my woes.
Turn then my freshest reputation to
Twenty-three years; and saw myself unbreech'd,
Two days ago. This jealousy
Two lads that thought there was no more behind
Unarm thee, go; and doubt thou not, brave boy,
Unarm, sweet Hector.
Unarm, unarm, and do not fight to-day.
Under a cloak that is of any length.
Under the colour of commending him
Under your hard construction must I sit,
Unguided and unfriended, often prove
Unheedful vows may heedfully be broken;
Unless I flatter with myself too much.
Unless I look on Silvia in the day,
Unless I prove false traitor to myself.
Unless it be to come before their time,
Unless it be to think that she is by,
Unless it have a false interpreter.
Unless perchance you come to me again
Unless she said 'My mind is now turn'd whore.'
Unless the master were the man. How now!
Unless you have a codpiece to stick pins on.
Unstaid and skittish in all motions else
Unto a ragged, fearful, hanging rock,
Unto a youthful gentleman of worth;
Unto the secret nameless friend of yours;
Upon Sir Toby and the lighter people;
Upon a homely object Love can wink.              Exit THURIO
Upon advice, hath drawn my love from her;
Upon his palm?- How now, you wanton calf,
Upon some other pawn for fealty.
Upon some stubborn and uncourteous parts
Upon the love you bear me, get you in.
Upon the pashed corses of the kings
Upon the rising of the mountain foot
Upon the very naked name of love.
Upon thee in the letter. Prithee, be content;
Upon this ground; and more it would content me
Upon this warrant shall you have access
Upon whose faith and honour I repose.
Upon whose grave thou vow'dst pure chastity.
Urge not my father's anger, Eglamour,
Vain Thurio, whom my very soul abhors.
Valentine.
Valiant, wise, remorseful, well accomplish'd.
Verona shall not hold thee. Here she stands
Virtue is beauty; but the beauteous evil
Virtue itself- these shrugs, these hum's and ha's,
Visit by night your lady's chamber window
Vouchsafe me yet your picture for my love,
Vouchsafe me, for my meed, but one fair look;
Wafting his eyes to th' contrary and falling
War with good counsel, set the world at nought;
Warrant me welcome to my Proteus.
Was Cressid here?
Was innocence for innocence; we knew not
Was this the idol that you worship so?
We are to speak in public; for this business
We are yours i' th' garden. Shall's attend you there?
We had conceiv'd against him. Maria writ
We have convers'd and spent our hours together;
We have had pelting wars since you refus'd
We have some secrets to confer about.            Exit THURIO
We made each other but so late ago.
We men may say more, swear more, but indeed
We must be neat- not neat, but cleanly, Captain.
We need no grave to bury honesty;
We need no more of your advice. The matter,
We will not part from hence. Cesario, come;
We'll do thee homage, and be rul'd by thee,
We'll once more hear Orsino's embassy.
We'll thwack him hence with distaffs.
Wear out thy youth with shapeless idleness.
Well, sir, this gentleman is come to me
Well, welcome, welcome! I have seen the time.
Wept bitterly; and would I might be dead
Were full as lovely as is this of hers;
Were in your love a whip to me; my stay
Were it a casque compos'd by Vulcan's skill
Were rich and honourable; besides, the gentleman
Were there necessity in your request, although
Were you a woman, as the rest goes even,
Were't not affection chains thy tender days
What case stand I in? I must be the poisoner
What cheer? How is't with you, best brother?
What colour are your eyebrows?
What compass will you wear your farthingale.'
What countryman, what name, what parentage?
What dost thou then in prison?
What else may hap to time I will commit;
What error leads must err; O, then conclude,
What fool is she, that knows I am a maid
What foolish boldness brought thee to their mercies
What further you will do.
What great ones do the less will prattle of-
What halloing and what stir is this to-day?
What ho! Lucetta!
What ho, Malvolio!
What incidency thou dost guess of harm
What is decreed must be; and be this so!                Exit
What is in Silvia's face but I may spy
What is your news?
What is your parentage?
What joy is joy, if Silvia be not by?
What lady she her lord.- You'll stay?
What letter is this same? What's here? 'To Silvia'!
What light is light, if Silvia be not seen?
What maintenance he from his friends receives,
What might we do to make the girl forget
What my estate is!
What o' that?
What say you to a letter from your friends
What shall you ask of me that I'll deny,
What she should shame to know herself
What should it be that he respects in her
What think you of this page, my lord?
What thou think'st meet, and is most mannerly.
What thriftless sighs shall poor Olivia breathe!
What time we will our celebration keep
What was my first? It has an elder sister,
What we took from them; which, for traffic's sake,
What will become of this? As I am man,
What will you do, now my necessity
What! Camillo there?
What's here?
What's past and what's to come is strew'd with husks
What's the matter? Look up; speak.
What, gone without a word?
When I protest true loyalty to her,
When I shall gust it last.- How came't, Camillo,
When all our pageants of delight were play'd,
When inward joy enforc'd my heart to smile!
When least in company. Prosper well in this,
When my tongue blabs, then let mine eyes not see.
When she did think my master lov'd her well,
When she for thy repeal was suppliant,
When that a ring of Greeks have hemm'd thee in,
When that is known, and golden time convents,
When thou dost meet good hap; and in thy danger,
When thou hast hung thy advanced sword i' th' air,
When time hath sow'd a grizzle on thy case?
When to her beauty I commend my vows,
When we have here her base and pillar by us.
When will you go?
When willingly I would have had her here!
When women cannot love where they're belov'd!
When you cast out, it still came home.
When you depart, and save your thanks. How say you?
When you have done we look to hear from you.
When you have said she's goodly, come between,
When you shall come to clearer knowledge, that
When you, and those poor number saved with you,
When your young nephew Titus lost his leg.
Where 'tis predominant; and 'tis pow'rfull, think it,
Where I arrive, and my approach be shunn'd,
Where I intend holy confession.
Where Love is thron'd.
Where being apprehended, his false cunning,
Where have you been these two days loitering?
Where he sits crowned in his master's spite.
Where is Malvolio?
Where lie my maiden weeds; by whose gentle help
Where lies your text?
Where manners ne'er were preach'd! Out of my sight!
Where thou and I henceforth may never meet.
Where thou shalt find me sad and solitary.      Exit PROTEUS
Where thou wilt hit me dead?
Where you may temper her by your persuasion
Where you with Silvia may confer at large-
Where's Malvolio? He is sad and civil,
Where, if it please you, you may intercept him.
Where, like Arion on the dolphin's back,
Wherein I sigh not, Julia, for thy sake,
Wherein Olivia may seem serviceable?
Wherein my sword had not impressure made
Wherein the pregnant enemy does much.
Whereof the execution did cry out
Whereon this month I have been hammering.
Whereto thy speech serves for authority,
Wherewith my brother held you in the cloister?
Which I had recommended to his use
Which I have given to you?
Which I have wond'red at. In hope it shall not,
Which I so lively acted with my tears
Which I was much unwilling to proceed in,
Which I'll not call a creature of thy place,
Which better fits a lion than a man.
Which cannot perish, having thee aboard,
Which draught to me were cordial.
Which else no worldly good should draw from me.
Which from the womb I did participate.
Which heaven and fortune still rewards with plagues.
Which honour does acknowledge, whereof the least
Which hoxes honesty behind, restraining
Which is for me less easy to commit
Which like a waxen image 'gainst a fire
Which must be done by praising me as much
Which must be ev'n as swiftly followed as
Which never tender lady hath borne greater,
Which now shows all the beauty of the sun,
Which of you saw Sir Eglamour of late?
Which oft infects the wisest. These, my lord,
Which often hath no less prevail'd than so
Which on my faith deserves high speech, and straight
Which puts some of us in distemper; but
Which served me as fit, by all men's judgments,
Which shipmen do the hurricano call,
Which should undo more doing. Ay, and thou,
Which shows me mine chang'd too; for I must be
Which since I know they virtuously are plac'd,
Which they would have the profferer construe 'Ay.'
Which to preserve is sleep, which being spotted
Which to requite, command me while I live.
Which was as gross as ever touch'd conjecture,
Which way to be prevented, if to be;
Which with my scimitar I'll cool to-morrow.
Which would be great impeachment to his age,
Which you do here forbid me, royal Priam.
Which you knew none of yours. What might you think?
Which, all too much, I have bestow'd on thee.
Which, being writ to me, shall be deliver'd
Which, if my augury deceive me not,
Which, unrevers'd, stands in effectual force-
Which, with ourselves, all rest at thy dispose.       Exeunt
While one would wink; denied me mine own purse,
While other men, of slender reputation,
Whiles other men have gates and those gates open'd,
Whiles you are willing it shall come to note,
Whiles you beguile the time and feed your knowledge
Who I do think is mine, and love as mine-
Who art the table wherein all my thoughts
Who but to-day hammer'd of this design,
Who by repentance is not satisfied
Who is that that spake?
Who neither looks upon the heaven nor earth,
Who respects friend?
Who shall tell Priam so, or Hecuba?
Who shortly also died; for whose dear love,
Who should be trusted, when one's own right hand
Who, all enrag'd, will banish Valentine,
Who, in my mood, I stabb'd unto the heart.
Who, in rebellion with himself, will have
Whoe'er I woo, myself would be his wife.
Whom I affect; but she is nice, and coy,
Whom I employ'd was pre-employ'd by him;
Whom the blind waves and surges have devour'd.
Whom thou, in terms so bloody and so dear,
Whose golden touch could soften steel and stones,
Whose high imperious thoughts have punish'd me
Whose ignorant credulity will not
Whose life's as tender to me as my soul!
Whose sovereignty so oft thou hast preferr'd
Why dost thou so oppress me with thine eye?
Why ev'n what fashion thou best likes, Lucetta.
Why have you suffer'd me to be imprison'd,
Why then, fly on; I'll hunt thee for thy hide.             Exeunt
Why you have given me such clear lights of favour,
Why, Phaethon- for thou art Merops' son-
Why, do you not perceive the jest?
Why, lo you now, I have spoke to th' purpose twice:
Why, that's my bawcock. What! hast smutch'd thy nose?
Why, then the world and all that's in't is nothing;
Will I my master's tears to you deplore.
Will be my knell. Go, play, boy, play. There have been,
Will creep in service where it cannot go.
Will give thee time to leave our royal court,
Will hiss me to my grave. Contempt and clamour
Will one day end it.
Will raise us all.
Will take again your queen as yours at first,
Will well become such sweet-complaining grievance.
Will you take eggs for money?
Wilt thou aspire to guide the heavenly car,
Wilt thou reach stars because they shine on thee?
Wish me partaker in thy happiness
Wishing me with him, partner of his fortune.
With Valentinus in the Emperor's court;
With all good grace to grace a gentleman.
With all the cunning manner of our flight,
With all the nearest things to my heart, as well
With an aspect more favourable. Good my lords,
With an invisible and subtle stealth
With any but with us.
With bag and baggage. Many thousand on's
With bitter fasts, with penitential groans,
With commendation from great potentates,
With customary compliment, when he,
With eye-offending brine; all this to season
With falsehood, cowardice, and poor descent-
With goodly shape, and by your own report
With groans that thunder love, with sighs of fire.
With many bitter threats of biding there.
With nightly tears, and daily heart-sore sighs;
With one 'We thank you' many thousands moe
With one soft kiss a thousand furlongs ere
With other gentlemen of good esteem
With our discourse to make your Grace to smile.
With so eternal and so fix'd a soul.
With some sweet consort; to their instruments
With spur we heat an acre. But to th' goal:
With stronger blood, we should have answer'd heaven
With such a careless force and forceless care
With such a smooth, discreet, and stable bearing,
With such a suff'ring, such a deadly life,
With that she's big with- for 'tis Polixenes
With that which here his passion doth express?
With the memorials and the things of fame
With the most noble bottom of our fleet
With them, upon her knees, her humble self,
With this thy fair and outward character.
With thoughts so qualified as your charities
With triumphs, mirth, and rare solemnity.
With twenty odd-conceited true-love knots-
With twenty thousand soul-confirming oaths!
With twenty watchful, weary, tedious nights;
With viewing of the town; there shall you have me.
With violent hefts. I have drunk, and seen the spider.
With what's unreal thou coactive art,
With which such scathful grapple did he make
With willing sport, to the wild ocean.
Withdraw thee, Valentine. Who's this comes here?
Withdraw yourselves.                       Exeunt ATTENDANTS
Withdrew me from the odds of multitude.
Within my soul there doth conduce a fight
Without a burden. Time as long again
Without apparent hazard of his life.
Without false vantage or base treachery.
Without more overture.
Without perdition, and loss assume all reason
Without revolt: this is, and is not, Cressid.
Without ripe moving to 't? Would I do this?
Without some treachery us'd to Valentine.
Witness good bringing up, fortune, and truth;
Women to change their shapes than men their minds.
Worse than tears drown. Beseech you all, my lords,
Worthy his youth and nobleness of birth.
Would I not undergo for one calm look?
Would I or not. Tell him I'll none of it.
Would be fill'd up, my brother, with our thanks;
Would better fit his chamber than this shadow.
Would hang themselves. Physic for't there's none;
Would serve to scale another Hero's tow'r,
Would suffer him to spend his youth at home,
Would they were blanks rather than fill'd with me!
Wouldst thou then counsel me to fall in love?
Wringing her hands, whose whiteness so became them
Write from it if you can, in hand or phrase;
Write loyal cantons of contemned love
Write till your ink be dry, and with your tears
Y'are servant to the Count Orsino, youth.
Yet 'tis not madness. Where's Antonio, then?
Yet I suppose him virtuous, know him noble,
Yet doth this accident and flood of fortune
Yet hath Sir Proteus, for that's his name,
Yet here they shall not lie for catching cold.
Yet let her be a principality,
Yet living in my glass; even such and so
Yet standing in rich place, I multiply
Yet there he was; and there I found this credit,
Yet when I saw it last it was besmear'd
Yet will I woo for him, but yet so coldly
Yet, for a greater confirmation-
Yet, spaniel-like, the more she spurns my love
Yond crickets shall not hear it.
Yond towers, whose wanton tops do buss the clouds,
You are abus'd, and by some putter-on
You are already Love's firm votary
You are betroth'd both to a maid and man.
You bid them rise and live.
You brace of warlike brothers, welcome hither.
You can say none of this. Well, grant it then,
You come to fright us.
You did continue fault, and that you slipp'd not
You did mistake.
You dote on her that cares not for your love.
You drew your sword upon me without cause;
You flow to great distraction; come, my lord.
You had drawn oaths from him not to stay. You, sir,
You had only in your silent judgment tried it,
You have desire to purchase; and your store,
You have tripp'd since.
You know me dutiful; therefore, dear sir,
You know me, do you not?
You master's mistress.
You may have every day enough of Hector,
You must lay lime to tangle her desires
You must not now deny it is your hand;
You must provide to bottom it on me;
You never spoke what did become you less
You put me off with limber vows; but I,
You sacrifice your tears, your sighs, your heart;
You scarce can right me throughly then to say
You shall not go; a lady's 'verily' is
You should find better dealing. What's to do?
You smell this business with a sense as cold
You take my lord, I'll give him my commission
You take the sum and substance that I have.
You tell her so. Must she not then be answer'd?
You throw a strange regard upon me, and by that
You thus have publish'd me! Gentle my lord,
You were pretty lordings then!
You will break out.
You wisest Grecians, pardon me this brag.
You would be fing'ring them, to anger me.
You would have been contracted to a maid;
You would quickly learn to know him by his voice.
You'll nothing, madam, to my lord by me?
Your Grace is welcome to a man disgrac'd,
Your brows are blacker; yet black brows, they say,
Your chang'd complexions are to me a mirror
Your eyes, half out, weep out at Pandar's fall;
Your followers I will whisper to the business;
Your honour and your goodness is so evident
Your message done, hie home unto my chamber,
Your passion draws ears hither.
Your precious self had then not cross'd the eyes
Your queen and I are devils. Yet, go on;
Your quondam wife swears still by Venus' glove.
Your servant's servant is your servant, madam.
Your slander never can endamage him;
Your wife is like to reap a proper man.
Yourself, your queen, your son.
[Aside]  They're here with me already; whisp'ring, rounding,
[Aside] though I would not have it grow on my chin.- Is thy lady
[Exeunt MARIA and ATTENDANTS] Now, sir, what is your text?
[Exeunt all but OLIVIA and VIOLA] Give me your hand, sir.
[Reads] 'Thou canst not choose but know who I am. If thou
[Speaking as SIR TOPAS] Malvolio, thy wits the heavens restore!
[Striking SEBASTIAN] There's for you.
[To FABIAN] I have his horse to take up the quarrel; I have
[To POLIXENES]  Yet of your royal presence I'll
[To VIOLA] Boy, thou hast said to me a thousand times
[To VIOLA] Your master quits you; and, for your service done
a catch that will draw three souls out of one weaver? Shall we do
a letter] Lie thou there; for here comes the trout that must be
a raven; I would bode, I would bode. Patroclus will give me
a rheum in mine eyes too, and such an ache in my bones that
a sleeve-less errand. A th' t'other side, the policy of those
a soldier, he will not hurt you. Come on; to't.
a steward still, the fellow of servants, and not worthy to touch
accosted her; and with some excellent jests, fire-new from the
achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon 'em. Thy
advantage thee more than ever the bearing of letter did.
adventure the borrow of a week. When at Bohemia
after dinner; when you look'd sadly, it was for want of money.
after him.
after my degree, but 'fellow.' Why, everything adheres together,
again.
again.
against that dog of as bad a kind, Achilles; and now is the cur,
air.
all nick.
allied to your disorders. If you can separate yourself and your
almost an apple; 'tis with him in standing water, between boy and
aloud to him!
altogether.
am not of your element; you shall know more hereafter.
am not tall enough to become the function well nor lean enough to
among the prudent he would quickly have the gift of a grave.
an improbable fiction.
an they be not, let them hang themselves in their own straps.
and I am the dog- O, the dog is me, and I am myself; ay, so, so.
and as mine honesty puts it to utterance.
and as thou draw'st, swear horrible; for it comes to pass oft
and hath all the good gifts of nature.
and make a fool of him.
and people dislike it.
and pepper in't.
and reason.
and show you the picture. [Unveiling] Look you, sir, such a one I
and so look to thyself. Thy friend, as thou usest him, and thy
and speaks three or four languages word for word without book,
and steals her capon's leg. O, 'tis a foul thing when a cur
and vouchsafed car.
and will not be roughly us'd.
and, I think, no other treasure to give your followers; for it
and, to inure thyself to what thou art like to be, cast thy
another thing she may, and that cannot I help. Well, proceed.
another; 'Whip him out' says the third; 'Hang him up' says the
any man in Illyria.
anything for the intelligence of this whore; the parrot will not
appears by their bare liveries that they live by your bare words.
arbitrement; but nothing of the circumstance more.
are grown so false I am loath to prove reason with them.
art said to be Achilles' male varlet.
as I have said, great difference betwixt our Bohemia and your
as a fox.
as a man in his case may do. Has here writ a letter to you; I
as a present to Mistress Silvia from my master; and I came no
as a squash is before 'tis a peascod, or a codling when 'tis
as any in Illyria.
as ear-wax; and the goodly transformation of Jupiter there, his
as good as my word. He will bear you easily and reins well.
as oft with your master as with my mistress: think I saw your
as pilchers are to herrings- the husband's the bigger. I am
as you are like to find him in the proof of his valour. He is
asleep; he seems to have a foreknowledge of that too, and
assurance if you be the lady of the house, that I may proceed in
at my house, and my house doth stand by the church.
at once delivered.
at such a barren rascal? An you smile not, he's gagg'd'? And thus
at the Northgate.
augmentation of the Indies. You have not seen such a thing as
away, let summer bear it out.
be a fool; whose skull Jove cram with brains! For- here he comes-
be conveniently deliver'd, I would he were; for I am now so far
be no more cakes and ale?
be so unsuitable to her disposition, being addicted to a
be thought a good student; but to be said an honest man and a
be up betimes; and 'diluculo surgere' thou know'st-
bear-baiting. Oh, had I but followed the arts!
beauties, let me sustain no scorn; I am very comptible, even to
beauty's a flower. The lady bade take away the fool; therefore, I
become thee well. Therefore in my presence still smile, dear my
bed of Ware in England, set 'em down; go about it. Let there be
been pleas'd, would we had so ended! But you, sir, alter'd that;
begot, bastard instructed, bastard in mind, bastard in valour, in
being in heaven. Take away the fool, gentlemen.
being in love, could not see to garter his hose; and you, being
believe that does harm to my wit.
believe thou art Sir Topas the curate; do it quickly. I'll call
believing rightly can ever believe such impossible passages of
belike this is a man of that quirk.
best to have some guard about you if he come; for sure the man is
blackberry. They set me up, in policy, that mongrel cur, Ajax,
blood in his liver as will clog the foot of a flea, I'll eat the
bloody coxcomb too. For the love of God, your help! I had rather
bodies hath he divorc'd three; and his incensement at this moment
boil'd to death with melancholy.
boldly publish her: she bore mind that envy could not but call
bond-slave?
born, of 'I fear no colours.'
borrows his wit from your ladyship's looks, and spends what he
borrows kindly in your company.
borrows of the moon when Diomed keeps his word. I will rather
bottle-ale houses.
brain. Good madonna, give me leave to prove you a fool.
break thy neck for frighting me! What's become of the wenching
breath to sing, as the fool has. In sooth, thou wast in very
breath, prompt us to have mercy on him; at which time we will
breath.'
breeding; his employment between his lord and my niece confirms
brew good ale.
bring the device to the bar and crown thee for a finder of
brother thus? I am sure care's an enemy to life.
brother's leg-to what form but that he is, should wit larded with
brother, the bull, the primitive statue and oblique memorial of
burning devil take them!                                     Exit
but a scurvy fellow.'
but he will not pass his word for twopence that you are no fool.
but to do myself much right or you much shame. Think of me as you
call me Cut.
call thee so, for I will show thee no reason for't.'
call'd up her steward Malvolio, and bid him turn you out of
can fetch and carry.' Why, a horse can do no more; nay, a horse
can hardly make distinction of our hands.
can write very like my lady, your niece; on forgotten matter we
cannon bullets. There is no slander in an allow'd fool, though he
cannot fetch, but only carry; therefore is she better than a
cannot keep himself in all companies! I would have, as one should
cannot with such magnificence, in so rare- I know not what to
capacity; there is no obstruction in this. And the end- what
cate-log  [Pulling out a paper]  of her condition. 'Inprimis: She
caught with tickling.
certain, or forswear to wear iron about you.
challeng'd him. Let him let the matter slip, and I'll give him
challenge.
chev'ril glove to a good wit. How quickly the wrong side may be
church. I have dogg'd him like his murderer. He does obey every
clerestories toward the south north are as lustrous as ebony; and
clodpole. But, sir, I will deliver his challenge by word of
clothes are good enough to drink in, and so be these boots too;
cloths. As many as be here of pander's hall,
come again in his affairs, unless it be to report your lord's
command, he must carry for a present to his lady.
commend my yellow stockings of late, she did praise my leg being
commerce with my lady, and will by and by depart.
competent injury; therefore, get you on and give him his desire.
complexion, he shall find himself most feelingly personated. I
consideration; but he is a devil in private brawl. Souls and
consist of the four elements?
contempt. If you will see it, follow me.
could not see to wipe my shoes.
count.
courteous office as to know of the knight what my offence to him
courtesy of it is so fearful. Speak your office.
coward to allay the gust he hath in quarrelling, 'tis thought
coward, but he's the very devil incardinate.
crafty swearing rascals-that stale old mouse-eaten dry cheese,
cramm'd, as he thinks, with excellencies that it is his grounds
cross-garter'd; and in this she manifests herself to my love, and
cruel-hearted cur shed one tear. He is a stone, a very pebble
crutches till he had one.
cuckolds, a thrifty shoeing-horn in a chain, hanging at his
cunning in fence, I'd have seen him damn'd ere I'd have
days, and already you are no stranger.
death and sepulchre. Hob-nob is his word- give't or take't.
defy the devil; consider, he's an enemy to mankind.
degree of my betters; and yet I will not compare with an old man.
degree, neither in estate, years, nor wit; I have heard her
deliver thy indignation to him by word of mouth.
deliver'd.
deliver't?
detraction at your heels than fortunes before you.
devils of hell be drawn in little, and Legion himself possess'd
did affect me; and I have heard herself come thus near, that,
did nod; and I say 'Ay.'
discoveries!
dishonest man mend himself: if he mend, he is no longer
dishonest; if he cannot, let the botcher mend him. Anything
disposition, is to take those things for bird-bolts that you deem
distemper'd appetite. To be generous, guiltless, and of free
divers schedules of my beauty. It shall be inventoried, and every
do it.
do more for an almond than he for a commodious drab. Lechery,
do nothing but rail; nor no railing in known discreet man, though
done to any man.
done. Now, a song.
doors, never trust me.
dost thou mean? Is it a world to hide virtues in? I did think, by
doublet of changeable taffeta, for thy mind is a very opal. I
draw sword again!
drunken rogue.
duello avoid it; but he has promis'd me, as he is a gentleman and
dwell near him; or the church stands by thy tabor, if thy tabor
earnest?
eating and drinking.
eight i' th' morning.
enough, and one that loves quails, but he has not so much brain
enough.
entertain'st my love, let it appear in thy smiling; thy smiles
entertainment. What I am and what I would are as secret as
epistles are no gospels, so it skills not much when they are
ever came into my note.
every reason excites to this, that my lady loves me. She did
everything illegitimate. One bear will not bite another, and
exasperate you, to awake your dormouse valour, to put fire in
excellently well penn'd, I have taken great pains to con it. Good
extravagancy. But I perceive in you so excellent a touch of
eyes had the lights they were wont to have when you chid at Sir
face? You are now out of your text; but we will draw the curtain
fain have meat. O, be not like your mistress! Be moved, be moved.
fair. She is drown'd already, sir, with salt water, though I seem
fairly in jest.
faith, say I. Well, it's all one.                       Exit
farewell.
fashion she detests; and he will smile upon her, which will now
father took much delight in. He is about the house.
favour.
fear to kill a woodcock, lest thou dispossess the soul of thy
fellow be look'd to. Where's my cousin Toby? Let some of my
filthy rogue.
find'st him. I would we were well rid of this knavery. If he may
finger, tickles these together! Fry, lechery, fry!
firago. I had a pass with him, rapier, scabbard, and all, and he
first approach before my lady. He will come to her in yellow
five thousand welcomes. But, sirrah, how did thy master part with
flame-colour'd stock. Shall we set about some revels?
foes tell me plainly I am an ass; so that by my foes, sir, I
follows her. What should I think on't?
food follows not the sheep: thou for wages followest thy master;
fool, I am not mad!' But do you remember- 'Madam, why laugh you
fool, he's a great quarreller; and but that he hath the gift of a
foolery.
foolish knight'-
fools, let them use their talents.
for give the dry fool drink, then is the fool not dry. Bid the
for good things should be praised.
for he's in the third degree of drink, he's drown'd; go look
for his honour's sake, have one bout with you; he cannot by the
for my labour.
for some hour before you took me from the breach of the sea was
for the half of my dowry.
for yours.
for's oath sake. Marry, he hath better bethought him of his
for't. Thou think'st not of this now. Nay, I remember the trick
for, look you, she is as white as a lily and as small as a wand;
friends.
friends.
from drowning, when three or four of his blind brothers and
from her.
full of peace as matter.
furnish man withal.
gall enough in thy ink, though thou write with a goose-pen, no
gallant child; one that indeed physics the subject, makes old
galliard and come home in a coranto? My very walk should be a
gentleman, I will live to be thankful to thee for't.
gentleman- as know his youth will aptly receive it- into a most
gentleman-like dogs under the Duke's table; he had not been
gifts a curtain before 'em? Are they like to take dust, like
give fools money get themselves a good report after fourteen
gives me the stuck in with such a mortal motion that it is
go your hand, I am barren.                        Exit MARIA
going will scarce serve the turn.
gone.
gone; if you have reason, be brief; 'tis not that time of moon
good housekeeper goes as fairly as to say a careful man and a
good, i' faith. I sent thee sixpence for thy leman; hadst it?
gracious fooling last night, when thou spok'st of Pigrogromitus,
grandam. Fare thee well.
great scholar. The competitors enter.
greater hides the less. What's next?
grossness. He's in yellow stockings.
grow dishonest.
grows into an ill opinion.
had the pestilence; to sigh, like a school-boy that had lost his
hand dry. But what's your jest?
hands, and all our house in a great perplexity; yet did not this
hang'd for't; sure as I live, he had suffer'd for't. You shall
hangman's boys in the market-place; and then I offer'd her mine
hard as steel.
hare. His dishonesty appears in leaving his friend here in
hate; I had as lief be a Brownist as a politician.
have earn'd him. Away.
have greatness thrown upon them.' I was one, sir, in this
have tickl'd you othergates than he did.
having come from a day-bed- where I have left Olivia sleeping-
he do nothing but reprove.
he is gagg'd. I protest I take these wise men that crow so at
he shall find the letter; observe his construction of it. For
hear music, and see the gentleman that you ask'd for.
heard you were saucy at my gates, and allow'd your approach
heart! Pray God he be not bewitched.
heart-strings.
hearts fresh; they that went on crutches ere he was born desire
heat makes him a fool; the second mads him; and a third drowns
helm. I would fain see them meet, that that same young Troyan ass
help me to a candle, and pen, ink, and paper; as I am a
her along with you, it may awake my bounty further.
her living.
her not?
her; an if it be a match, as nothing is impossible-
here's my mother's breath up and down. Now come I to my sister;
hideous opinion of his rage, skill, fury, and impetuosity. This
higher! Ha, ha, excellent!                            Exeunt
him black and blue- shall we not, Sir Andrew?
him in eleven places. My niece shall take note of it; and assure
him into a nayword, and make him a common recreation, do not
him whom you have recover'd-desire it not. Fare ye well at once;
him will my revenge find notable cause to work.
him, Crying on Hector. Ajax hath lost a friend
him, yet I'll speak to him.
him.
him.
him. 'Out with the dog' says one; 'What cur is that?' says
him. I frown the while, and perchance wind up my watch, or play
him. I will plant you two, and let the fool make a third, where
him; I'll have an action of battery against him, if there be any
himself with courtesy. Say'st thou that house is dark?
his face into more lines than is in the new map with the
his guard already; unless you laugh and minister occasion to him,
his own shadow this half hour. Observe him, for the love of
hit the ground they step on. They say he has been fencer to the
hither.
hold him yonder.
hold your life at any price, betake you to your guard; for your
hopes. Well, Jove, not I, is the doer of this, and he is to be
how he jets under his advanc'd plumes!
humble slough and appear fresh. Be opposite with a kinsman, surly
icicle on Dutchman's beard, unless you do redeem it by some
idiot worshippers, here's a letter for thee.
if he shake his tail and say nothing, it will.
ignorance were as dark as hell; and I say there was never man
ignorance; in which thou art more puzzled than the Egyptians in
image of it leaves him he must run mad.
impressure her Lucrece with which she uses to seal; 'tis my lady.
in any constant question.
in his favours?
in love, cannot see to put on your hose.
in love; but a team of horse shall not pluck that from me; nor
in offence with my niece that I cannot pursue with any safety
in question the continuance of his love. Is he inconstant, sir,
in the back, lethargies, cold palsies, raw eyes, dirt-rotten
in words is a woman's only virtue. I pray thee, out with't; and
in't to call thee knave, knight.
incites me to that in the letter. 'Cast thy humble slough,' says
increasing your folly! Sir Toby will be sworn that I am no fox;
indeed not her fool, but her corrupter of words.
indeed, or do you but counterfeit?
indeed, sir, the most skilful, bloody, and fatal opposite that
indifferent red; item, two grey eyes with lids to them; item, one
indistinguishable cur, no.
induced me to the semblance I put on, with the which I doubt not
inevitable; and on the answer, he pays you as surely as your feet
infinite.
instance for it? Let me see-
intercepter, full of despite, bloody as the hunter, attends
interlude- one Sir Topas, sir; but that's all one. 'By the Lord,
into the north of my lady's opinion; where you will hang like an
is 'The third pays for all.' The triplex, sir, is a good tripping
is already in the belief that he's mad. We may carry it thus, for
is so implacable that satisfaction can be none but by pangs of
is the poor agent despis'd! traitors and bawds, how earnestly are
is the sin of covetousness. But, as you say, sir, let your bounty
is to be up late.
is, in contempt of question, her hand.
is: it is something of my negligence, nothing of my purpose.
it as it ought to be, you must allow vox.
it goes hard- one that I brought up of a puppy; one that I sav'd
it should be so return'd. If it be worth stooping for, there it
it.
it. [Exit MALVOLIO] Now you see, sir, how your fooling grows old,
it: it is prodigious, there will come some change; the sun
jade. 'Item: She can milk.' Look you, a sweet virtue in a maid
jig; I would not so much as make water but in a sink-a-pace. What
judge. He thrusts me himself into the company of three or four
judgment. Farewell, bastard.
justified in our loves; for indeed-
keep in; therefore it charges me in manners the rather to express
kind of the Launces have this very fault. I have receiv'd my
knave; I will no more trust him when he leers than I will a
knight?
knit him a stock.
know not their fathers, and therefore have no names.
lady will hang thee for thy absence.
lady would not lose him for more than I'll say.
lady.                                                [Sings]
lady? He's fortified against any denial.
ladyship's pleasure.
laudable attempt either of valour or policy.
law in Illyria; though I struck him first, yet it's no matter for
leave to see Hector than not to dog him. They say he keeps a
leave, and presently after him.
lechery! Still wars and lechery! Nothing else holds fashion. A
lethargy?
letter.
letters, loving embassies; that they have seem'd to be together,
lies in your eye; if not, be it his that finds it.
light; and convey what I will set down to my lady. It shall
like a sheriff's post, and be the supporter to a bench, but he'll
like occasion whereon my services are now on foot, you shall see,
liking. I thank my stars I am happy. I will be strange, stout, in
limekilns i' th' palm, incurable bone-ache, and the rivelled fee-
livers, wheezing lungs, bladders full of imposthume, sciaticas,
lizard, an owl, a put-tock, or a herring without a roe, I would
long as there is a passage in my throat and drink in Illyria.
longer.
look you, wept herself blind at my parting. Nay, I'll show you
look'd for at your hand, and this was baulk'd. The double gilt of
look, like cockatrices.
losing thy service- Why dost thou stop my mouth?
love-song, like a robin redbreast; to walk alone, like one that
loves!
lubber, the world, will prove a cockney. I prithee now, ungird
lunatic.
madman.                                                 Exit
madman. [Reads madly ] 'By the Lord, madam-'
madmen. But see, but see.
maid and serves for wages. She hath more qualities than a
maidenhead- to your cars, divinity; to any other's, profanation.
make it another.
malapert blood from you. [Draws]
malice, and malice forced with wit, turn him to? To an ass, were
malignancy of my fate might perhaps distemper yours; therefore I
man's commendation with woman than report of valour.
man.
man. He is very well-favour'd, and he speaks very shrewishly; one
man. I do not now fool myself to let imagination jade me; for
manner of his gait, the expressure of his eye, forehead, and
mark the moan she makes. Now the dog all this while sheds not a
master, and, in losing thy master, lose thy service, and, in
matter to alter it. You have an unspeakable comfort of your young
matter. About it.
me down. Methinks sometimes I have no more wit than a Christian
me knave. Begin, fool: it begins 'Hold thy peace.'
me my pains, to have taken it away yourself. She adds, moreover,
me that brought your mind, I fear she'll prove as hard to you in
me which with as much safety you might answer him; therefore on,
me, and the foolish fortune of this girl, and what one thing,
measure; or the bells of Saint Bennet, sir, may put you in mind-
melancholy as she is, that it cannot but turn him into a notable
might be everything, and their intent everywhere: for that's it
might make my sister wanton. But indeed words are very rascals
mind i' th' world; I delight in masques and revels sometimes
ministers to me, asses, and do all they can to face me out of my
mint, you should have bang'd the youth into dumbness. This was
misdemeanours, you are welcome to the house; if not, and it would
mockery, for I know this letter will make a contemplative idiot
modesty that you will not extort from me what I am willing to
monachum'; that's as much to say as I wear not motley in my
money.
more than contempt, you would not give means for this uncivil
mouth, set upon Aguecheek notable report of valour, and drive the
much as a ducat for delivering your letter; and being so hard to
mutton; and she, a lac'd mutton, gave me, a lost mutton, nothing
my bosom is full of kindness, and I am yet so near the manners of
my commission. I will on with my speech in your praise, and then
my father; no, no, left shoe is my mother; nay, that cannot be so
my horse, grey Capilet.
my injury.
my lips so wide as a bristle may enter in way of thy excuse; my
my master is a kind of a knave; but that's all one if he be but
my mother that, upon the least occasion more, mine eyes will tell
my remembrance is very free and clear from any image of offence
my sister drown'd.
my speech.
my welkin- I might say 'element' but the word is overworn.
myself and a sister, both born in an hour; if the heavens had
myself. You must know of me then, Antonio, my name is Sebastian,
name is not Master Cesario; nor this is not my nose neither.
necessity and denying him; and for his cowardship, ask Fabian.
neck, one chin, and so forth. Were you sent hither to praise me?
neither; yes, it is so, it is so, it hath the worser sole. This
never saw pen and ink, very wittily said to niece of King
niece give me this prerogative of speech'-
no fool, sir, till she be married; and fools are as like husbands
no incredulous or unsafe circumstance- What can be said? Nothing
no less. Therefore this letter, being so excellently ignorant,
no matter how witty, so it be eloquent and full of invention.
none of him. And one thing more: that you be never so hardy to
nor never welcome to a place till some certain shot be paid, and
not be seen, or if she be, it's four to one she'll none of me;
not care; but to be Menelaus, I would conspire against destiny.
not think I am mad; they have laid me here in hideous darkness.
not to be the louse of a lazar, so I were not Menelaus. Hey-day!
nothing: he is both ass and ox. To an ox, were nothing: he is both
nothing; and that that did, I was set on to do't by Sir Toby.
now applies it to a fool. Vent my folly! I am afraid this great
now, dog! 'Loo, Paris, 'loo! now my double-horn'd Spartan! 'loo,
now- 'Let this fellow be look'd to.' 'Fellow,' not 'Malvolio' nor
o'er a couplet or two of most sage saws.
obstruction in the blood, this cross-gartering; but what of that?
of faith that all that look on him love him; and on that vice in
of fools!
of her beauty.
of him. Close, in the name of jesting! [As the men hide she drops
of order.
of singularity' and consequently sets down the manner how, as: a
of the Vapians passing the equinoctial of Queubus; 'twas very
of the lady. I am no fighter. I have heard of some kind of men
of thee.
of; of her purse she shall not, for that I'll keep shut. Now of
off, gives manhood more approbation than ever proof itself would
ominous to us: if the son of a whore fight for a whore, he tempts
on you, I can hardly think you my master.
on. That dissembling abominable varlet, Diomed, has got that same
one knave. He lives not now that knows me to be in love; yet I am
one night here to be her wooer.
one of thy kin has a most weak pia mater.
one, two, three.
opinion.
opposite hath in him what youth, strength, skill, and wrath, can
or an ordinary man has; but I am great eater of beef, and I
or so.
or strip your sword stark naked; for meddle you must, that's
orchard, like a bum-baily; so soon as ever thou seest him, draw;
orchard.
our pleasure and his penance, till our very pastime, tired out of
our souls! He may have mercy upon mine; but my hope is better,
own, who is a dog as big as ten of yours, and therefore the gift
ox and ass. To be a dog, a mule, a cat, a fitchew, a toad, a
parable.
particle and utensil labell'd to my will: as- item, two lips
patch'd with sin, and sin that amends is but patch'd with virtue.
pay Bohemia the visitation which he justly owes him.
people have a special care of him; I would not have him miscarry
personal, have been royally attorneyed with interchange of gifts,
persuaded him the youth's a devil.
pest'red with such water-flies-diminutives of nature!
physician to comment on your malady.
pickle-herring! How now, sot!
pillory for geese he hath kill'd, otherwise he had suffer'd
place it for her chief virtue.
please you to take leave of her, she is very willing to bid you
please. I leave my duty a little unthought of, and speak out of
point of the letter that I dropp'd to betray him. He does smile
postscript.
praise us, as little accuse us.
precisely 'Thus I would teach a dog.' I was sent to deliver him
preparation, for thy assailant is quick, skilful, and deadly.
presage of cruelty.
presently; where, for one shot of five pence, thou shalt have
prevented.
profit in the knowledge of myself, and by my friends I am abused;
proof.
proportion, like the Prodigious Son, and am going with Sir
proud, I will read politic authors, I will baffle Sir Toby, I
put up your iron; you are well flesh'd. Come on.
putting on. Jove and my stars be praised! Here is yet a
quarrel, and he finds that now scarce to be worth talking of.
question's out of my part. Good gentle one, give me modest
quickly make them wanton.
quoth he. 'You do him the more wrong,' quoth I; "twas I did the
rascal; I saw him put down the other day with an ordinary fool
rather go with sir priest than sir knight. I care not who knows
rather than forty shillings I had such a leg, and so sweet a
rather to wonder at you than to hear you. If you be not mad, be
reckon this always, that a man is never undone till he be hang'd,
rejoice in the boy's correction.                        Exit
remorse of voice? Is there no respect of place, persons, nor
renegado; for there is no Christian that means to be saved by
resemble something in me. Softly! M. O. A. I.-
rest of th' anatomy.
return'd; I could hardly entreat him back; he attends your
robbing; to speak puling, like a beggar at Hallowmas. You were
rogues? I think they have swallowed one another. I would laugh at
rule; she shall know of it, by this hand.
run mad; but, if with too much brain and to little blood they do,
sad face, a reverend carriage, a slow tongue, in the habit of
sailor.
say again, take her away.
say so of him. Who are they?
say, one that takes upon him to be a dog indeed, to be, as it
say. We will give you sleepy drinks, that your senses,
says she there?
scour'd.
scurvy doting foolish young knave's sleeve of Troy there in his
see a huswife take thee between her legs and spin it off.
see you move him? Let me alone with him.
sees thee not.
sends him on purpose, that I may appear stubborn to him; for she
senses as well as your ladyship. I have your own letter that
sent to you by my lady, to bid you come speak with her; nor your
separation of their society, their encounters, though not
serpent when he hisses. He will spend his mouth and promise, like
servant.
serve her; she is my lady. Why, this is evident to any formal
service, and the tied! Why, man, if the river were dry, I am able
servingman than ever she bestow'd upon me; I saw't i' th'
shall crave of you your leave that I may bear my evils alone. It
shall know it. Though you have put me into darkness and given
she hath had gossips; yet 'tis a maid, for she is her master's
she loves.
she uses thee kindly; but thou liest in thy throat; that is not
she's noted.
she. 'Be opposite with kinsman, surly with servants; let thy
sheep-biter come by some notable shame?
sheep.
shepherd; but I seek my master, and my master seeks not me;
shines everywhere. I would be sorry, sir, but the fool should be
shoe with the hole in it is my mother, and this my father. A
should do theirs, to ask for my kinsman Toby-
should enter, if your trade be to her.
should have given 't you to-day morning, but as a madman's
should she fancy, it should be one of my complexion. Besides, she
should that alphabetical position portend? If I could make that
show you the heart of my message.
sighs for thee. Remember who commended thy yellow stockings, and
simple of the tetter, take and take again such preposterous
simple, none else would; but you are so without these follies
since bonds disgrac'd them.
sir, I do not care for you. If that be to care for nothing, sir,
sir; but I would not have you to think that my desire of having
sir? 'Tis dinner time.
sisters went to it. I have taught him, even as one would say
skein of sleid silk, thou green sarcenet flap for a sore eye,
slave that will thrust himself into secrets! I'll after, to
so lov'd, and the performance so loathed? What verse for it? What
so much of my mettle.                                 Exeunt
so oft?
so that, conclusions to be as kisses, if your four negatives make
some sir of note, and so forth. I have lim'd her; but it is
sonnet is: 'Please one and please all.'
sooner into the dining-chamber, but he steps me to her trencher
sourest-natured dog that lives: my mother weeping, my father
speak now like a wood woman! Well, I kiss her- why there 'tis;
speak with you.
speaking to you.
speed.
sprites and fires!
staff understands me.
stand by the church.
star of a galliard.
state-
steward? Dost thou think, because thou art virtuous, there shall
stitches, follow me. Yond gull Malvolio is turned heathen, a very
stockings, and 'tis a colour she abhors, and cross-garter'd, a
stol'n, otherwise he had been executed; I have stood on the
stone, and has no more pity in him than a dog. A Jew would have
such estimable wonder overfar believe that, yet thus far I will
suffers under probation: A should follow, but O does.
sure I lack thee may pass for a wise man. For what says
swear't. Tut, there's life in't, man.
sweet, I prithee.'
swing'd me for my love, which makes me the bolder to chide you
sword again. Fair lady, do you think you have fools in hand?
sworn enemy,
tainted in's wits.
take a fault upon me that he did, I think verily he had been
take a nap; I will awake it anon.                       Exit
taking of this. Receive it so.
tales of me. I am bound to the Count Orsino's court. Farewell.
talk of it yesterday, and of a foolish knight that you brought in
taxation of homage: I hold the olive in my hand; my words are as
tear, nor speaks a word; but see how I lay the dust with my
tears.
tell me if this be the lady of the house, for I never saw her. I
tell myself; and yet 'tis a milkmaid; yet 'tis not a maid, for
tell them how much I lack of a man.
telling your mind. Give her no token but stones, for she's as
terms, for I am one of those gentle ones that will use the devil
th' buttry-bar and let it drink.
than forty pound I were at home.
than hairs, and more wealth than faults.'
than thee.
thanked.
thanks is good enough for such a present.
that a terrible oath, with a swaggering accent sharply twang'd
that always makes a good voyage of nothing. Farewell.
that can be can come between me and the full prospect of my
that has no more brain than a stone. Look you now, he's out of
that loves the whore there might send that Greekish whoremasterly
that miracle. Yet, in a sort, lechery eats itself. I'll seek
that my master is become a notable lover?
that no dram of a scruple, no scruple of a scruple, no obstacle,
that put quarrels purposely on others to taste their valour;
that these follies are within you, and shine through you like the
that think they have thee do very oft prove fools; and I that am
that time in the tongues that I have in fencing, dancing, and
that you should put your lord into a desperate assurance she will
that's mended is but patch'd; virtue that transgresses is but
that.
that?
the Count himself here hard by woos her.
the Count's was to-day with my lady, she is much out of quiet.
the Count, I am sick, or not at home- what you will to dismiss
the air, I am one that am nourish'd by my victuals, and would
the ale with a Christian. Wilt thou go?
the better for my foes.
the boat with my sighs.
the chamber. How many masters would do this for his servant? Nay,
the excellent constitution of thy leg, it was form'd under the
the flood, lose thy voyage, and, in losing thy voyage, lose thy
the greater.
the hair that covers the wit is more than the wit, for the
the hostess say 'Welcome!'
the least sinister usage.
the manner of it. This shoe is my father; no, this left shoe is
the matter I challenge thee for.'
the salt hides the salt, and therefore it is more than the salt;
the shoe speak a word for weeping; now should I kiss my father;
the south, the guts-griping ruptures, catarrhs, loads o' gravel
the whirligig of time brings in his revenges.
the wrongs are thou hast done him, I know not; but thy
the yeoman of the wardrobe.
the young gentleman gives him out to be of good capacity and
thee at the orchard end. Dismount thy tuck, be yare in thy
thee so put down?
thee still mark me and do as I do? When didst thou see me heave
thee,
thee, lady!
thee; but be not afraid of greatness. Some are born great, some
their fog.
them then such an affection which cannot choose but branch now.
them whence you come; who you are and what you would are out of
them.                                                        Exit
then, in your paper?
there, bless the mark, a pissing while but all the chamber smelt
therefore comes to speak with you. What is to be said to him,
therefore, I am no sheep.
these letters are in my name. Soft! here follows prose.
these set kind of fools no better than the fools' zanies.
they come from my niece, and that she's in love with him.
thin fac'd knave, a gull?
thing you wot of.' He makes me no more ado, but whips me out of
think I have wit enough to lie straight in my bed. I know I can
this hat is Nan our maid; I am the dog; no, the dog is himself,
this night, to bed, and dream on the event. Farewell.
this opportunity you let time wash off, and you are now sail'd
this shall end without the perdition of souls. [Aside] Marry,
this sport to the upshot. Come by and by to my chamber.
this walk. He has been yonder i' the sun practising behaviour to
thou art made, if thou desir'st to be so; if not, let me see thee
thou art to post after with oars. What's the matter? Why weep'st
thou tassel of a prodigal's purse, thou? Ah, how the poor world is
thou, man? Away, ass! You'll lose the tide if you tarry any
though absent; shook hands, as over a vast; and embrac'd as it
thousands to be paid from the Sophy.
three all ready.
three'?
thrice, it shall not be amiss; and as many lies as will lie in
thus abus'd. I am no more mad than you are; make the trial of it
thus; therefore perpend, my Princess, and give ear.
thy chance to kill me'-
thy master for wages follows not thee. Therefore, thou art a
thy sheet of paper, although the sheet were big enough for the
thy strangeness, and tell me what I shall vent to my lady. Shall
thyself into the trick of singularity. She thus advises thee that
thyself there is no love-broker in the world can more prevail in
till his brains turn o' th' toe like a parish-top. What, wench!
till my return.                                Exit SIR TOBY
time of night? Do ye make an ale-house of my lady's house, that
time, in you?
time-pleaser; an affection'd ass that cons state without book and
to an answer. I think oxen and wainropes cannot hale them
to bed after midnight is to go to bed betimes. Does not our lives
to bed now. Come, knight; come, knight.
to challenge him the field, and then to break promise with him
to curse thus?
to drown her remembrance again with more.
to fast, like one that takes diet; to watch, like one that fears
to fear no colours.
to fill it with my tears; if the wind were down, I could drive
to live.
to play at cherrypit with Satan. Hang him, foul collier!
to speak with you.
to-morrow, Sir Toby.
together.
together. For Andrew, if he were open'd and you find so much
told him you were sick; he takes on him to understand so much,
tongue tang with arguments of state; put thyself into the trick
too.
too; he does it with a better grace, but I do it more natural.
train'd together in their childhoods; and there rooted betwixt
travel of regard, telling them I know my place as I would they
turn'd away- is not that as good as a hanging to you?
turn'd outward!
twice or thrice in that last article. Rehearse that once more.
understands me.
unintelligent of our insufficience, may, though they cannot
unkindest tied that ever any man tied.
unless a man were curs'd I cannot tell what to think on't. What
up after midnight and to go to bed then is early; so that to go
up my leg and make water against a gentlewoman's farthingale?
uses me with a more exalted respect than any one else that
valour. Challenge me the Count's youth to fight with him; hurt
vengeance on 't! There 'tis. Now, sir, this staff is my sister,
very fool and a prodigal.
villain with the sleeve back to the dissembling luxurious drab of
voyage.
wailing, my sister crying, our maid howling, our cat wringing her
walk like one of the lions; when you fasted, it was presently
walk towards him? I will make your peace with him if I can.
was Crab, and goes me to the fellow that whips the dogs.
was this present. Is't not well done?
was yet of many accounted beautiful; but though I could not with
water in an urinal, that not an eye that sees you but is a
water-spaniel- which is much in a bare Christian. Here is the
we make the welkin dance indeed? Shall we rouse the night-owl in
well, he weeps on. Now come I to my mother. O that she could
wept to have seen our parting; why, my grandam having no eyes,
were a bad recompense for your love to lay any of them on you.
were from the ends of opposed winds. The heavens continue their
were, a dog at all things. If I had not had more wit than he, to
what another, that I shall leave you one o' th's days; and I have
what is yours to bestow is not yours to reserve. But this is from
what remedy? As there is no true cuckold but calamity, so
wherefore should one bastard? Take heed, the quarrel's most
wherein, by the colour of his beard, the shape of his leg, the
whereof, henceforth carry your letters yourself; and so, sir,
whereupon the Grecians begin to proclaim barbarism, and policy
which I call'd Roderigo; my father was that Sebastian of
whipstock. My lady has a white hand, and the Myrmidons are no
who 'tis I love; and yet 'tis a woman; but what woman I will not
why is it?
will breed no terror in the youth: he will find it comes from a
will let your lady know I am here to speak with her, and bring
will not hurt you.
will so fright them both that they will kill one another by the
will strike him; if she do, he'll smile and take't for a great
will wash off gross acquaintance, I will be point-devise the very
will.
wilt have me.                                           Exit
wisdom there.
wish'd to see thee ever cross-garter'd. I say, remember, Go to,
wishes.' Her very phrases! By your leave, wax. Soft! And the
wit bankrupt.
wit, manners, nor honesty, but to gabble like tinkers at this
with a kind of injunction drives me to these habits of her
with clean hands.
with her.
with me to make one in so skipping dialogue.
with my lady about a bear-baiting here.
with my- some rich jewel. Toby approaches; curtsies there to me-
with servants; let thy tongue tang arguments of state; put
within?
wits.
wont, when you laughed, to crow like a cock; when you walk'd, to
woo her, assail her.
word 'noddy' for my pains.
would be loath to cast away my speech; for, besides that it is
would have men of such constancy put to sea, that their business
would leave drinking, thou wert as witty a piece of Eve's flesh
would think his mother's milk were scarce out of him.
ye squeak out your coziers' catches without any mitigation or
years' purchase.
yellow stockings, and cross-garter'd, even with the swiftness of
yet complainest thou of obstruction?
yet their life to see him a man.
yet, to crush this a little, it would bow to me, for every one of
you are like to be much advanc'd; he hath known you but three
you could possibly have found in any part of Illyria. Will you
you mean by bidding me taste my legs.
you serv'd me when I took my leave of Madam Silvia. Did not I bid
you set a work, and how ill requited! Why should our endeavour be
you set nothing by a bloody coxcomb. Here comes Sir Toby halting;
you shall hear more; but if he had not been in drink, he would
you that, though she harbours you as her kins-man, she's nothing
you?
you? Sir Toby, my lady prays you to have a care of him.
your bounty, I thank you, you have testern'd me; in requital
your coats for two-pence.                               Exit
your cousin, my lady, takes great exceptions to your ill hours.
your drunken cousin rule over me, yet have I the benefit of my
your excuse wisely, you were best.                      Exit
your flesh and blood obey it.
your gaskins fall.
your heart and brimstone in your liver. You should then have
your pains.
your two affirmatives, why then, the worse for my friends, and
your wits than a fool.
and looks pale, as if a bear were at his heels.
hold th' opinion of Pythagoras ere I will allow of thy wits; and
with an austere regard of control-
A GAOLER
A MARINER
A SEA CAPTAIN, friend of Viola
ACHILLES. Behold thy fill.
ACHILLES. Come here about me, you my Myrmidons;
ACHILLES. Come, come, enter my tent.
ACHILLES. Dost thou entreat me, Hector?
ACHILLES. From whence, fragment?
ACHILLES. Good night and welcome, both at once, to those
ACHILLES. How now, thou core of envy!
ACHILLES. I am Achilles.
ACHILLES. I do disdain thy courtesy, proud Troyan.
ACHILLES. I shall forestall thee, Lord Ulysses, thou!
ACHILLES. I tell thee yea.
ACHILLES. I'll heat his blood with Greekish wine to-night,
ACHILLES. Look, Hector, how the sun begins to set;
ACHILLES. My sweet Patroclus, I am thwarted quite
ACHILLES. Now do I see thee, ha! Have at thee, Hector!
ACHILLES. Old Nestor tarries; and you too, Diomed,
ACHILLES. Strike, fellows, strike; this is the man I seek.
ACHILLES. Tell me, you heavens, in which part of his body
ACHILLES. The dragon wing of night o'erspreads the earth
ACHILLES. Thou art too brief. I will the second time,
ACHILLES. Welcome, brave Hector; welcome, Princes all.
ACHILLES. Where is this Hector?
AENEAS. 'Tis the old Nestor.
AENEAS. I have been seeking you this hour, my lord.
AENEAS. My lord, you do discomfort all the host.
AENEAS. Stand, ho! yet are we masters of the field.
AENEAS. The noble Menelaus.
AENEAS. There is expectance here from both the sides
AGAMEMNON. First, all you peers of Greece, go to my tent;
AGAMEMNON. Good night.
AGAMEMNON. Hark! hark! what shout is this?
AGAMEMNON. March patiently along. Let one be sent
AGAMEMNON. Renew, renew! The fierce Polydamus
AGAMEMNON. So now, fair Prince of Troy, I bid good night;
AGAMEMNON. We go wrong, we go wrong.
AGAMEMNON. [To Troilus] My well-fam'd lord of Troy, no less to you.
AGAMEMNON.Worthy all arms! as welcome as to one
AGUECHEEK. 'Odours,' 'pregnant,' and 'vouchsafed'- I'll get 'em all
AGUECHEEK. 'Slid, I'll after him again and beat him.
AGUECHEEK. 'Slight! will you make an ass o' me?
AGUECHEEK. 'Slight, I could so beat the rogue-
AGUECHEEK. 'Tis not the first time I have constrained one to call
AGUECHEEK. 'Twere as good a deed as to drink when a man's ahungry,
AGUECHEEK. A mellifluous voice, as I am true knight.
AGUECHEEK. An I thought that, I'd forswear it. I'll ride home
AGUECHEEK. An you love me, let's do't. I am dog at a catch.
AGUECHEEK. An you part so, mistress, I would I might never draw
AGUECHEEK. An't be any way, it must be with valour, for policy I
AGUECHEEK. And I do not-                                  Exit
AGUECHEEK. And I think I have the back-trick simply as strong as
AGUECHEEK. And we do not, it is pity of our lives.
AGUECHEEK. And your horse now would make him an ass.
AGUECHEEK. Are you full of them?
AGUECHEEK. As any man in Illyria, whatsoever he be, under the
AGUECHEEK. As plain as I see you now.
AGUECHEEK. Ay, 'tis strong, and it does indifferent well in
AGUECHEEK. Ay, ay; I care not for good life.
AGUECHEEK. Ay, he does well enough if he be dispos'd, and so do I
AGUECHEEK. Ay, is't, I warrant him; do but read.
AGUECHEEK. Before me, she's a good wench.
AGUECHEEK. Bless you, fair shrew.
AGUECHEEK. But it becomes me well enough, does't not?
AGUECHEEK. By my troth, I would not undertake her in this company.
AGUECHEEK. By my troth, the fool has an excellent breast. I had
AGUECHEEK. Dieu vous garde, monsieur.
AGUECHEEK. Excellent good, i' faith!
AGUECHEEK. Excellent! Why, this is the best fooling, when all is
AGUECHEEK. Faith, I can cut a caper.
AGUECHEEK. Faith, I'll home to-morrow, Sir Toby. Your niece will
AGUECHEEK. Faith, so they say; but I think it rather consists of
AGUECHEEK. Fie on him, Jezebel!
AGUECHEEK. For the love of God, a surgeon!
AGUECHEEK. Good Mistress Accost, I desire better acquaintance.
AGUECHEEK. Good Mistress Mary Accost-
AGUECHEEK. Good, i' faith! Come, begin.           [Catch sung]
AGUECHEEK. Has broke my head across, and has given Sir Toby a
AGUECHEEK. Her C's, her U's, and her T's. Why that?
AGUECHEEK. Here comes the fool, i' faith.
AGUECHEEK. Here's the challenge; read it. I warrant there's vinegar
AGUECHEEK. I have no exquisite reason for't, but I have reason good
AGUECHEEK. I have't in my nose too.
AGUECHEEK. I hope, sir, you are; and I am yours.
AGUECHEEK. I knew 'twas I; for many do call me fool.
AGUECHEEK. I was ador'd once too.
AGUECHEEK. I' faith, or I either?
AGUECHEEK. I'll help you, Sir Toby, because we'll be dress'd
AGUECHEEK. I'll make one too.                           Exeunt
AGUECHEEK. I'll stay a month longer. I am a fellow o' th' strangest
AGUECHEEK. If I cannot recover your niece, I am a foul way out.
AGUECHEEK. If I do not, never trust me; take it how you will.
AGUECHEEK. If a bloody coxcomb be a hurt, you have hurt me; I think
AGUECHEEK. Marry, I saw your niece do more favours to the Count's
AGUECHEEK. Marry, but you shall have; and here's my hand.
AGUECHEEK. Marry, will I, sir; and for that I promis'd you, I'll be
AGUECHEEK. Most certain. Let our catch be 'Thou knave.'
AGUECHEEK. Nay, by my troth, I know not; but I know to be up late
AGUECHEEK. Nay, let him alone. I'll go another way to work with
AGUECHEEK. Nay, let me alone for swearing.                Exit
AGUECHEEK. Never in your life, I think; unless you see canary put
AGUECHEEK. No, faith, I'll not stay a jot longer.
AGUECHEEK. Nor I neither.
AGUECHEEK. Now, sir, have I met you again?
AGUECHEEK. O, 'twill be admirable!
AGUECHEEK. O, if I thought that, I'd beat him like a dog.
AGUECHEEK. Od's lifelings, here he is! You broke my head for
AGUECHEEK. Or o' mine either?
AGUECHEEK. Pistol him, pistol him.
AGUECHEEK. Plague on't; an I thought he had been valiant, and so
AGUECHEEK. Pox on't, I'll not meddle with him.
AGUECHEEK. Pray God he keep his oath!                [They draw]
AGUECHEEK. Sir Toby Belch! How now, Sir Toby Belch!
AGUECHEEK. So could I too.
AGUECHEEK. Taurus? That's sides and heart.
AGUECHEEK. That youth's a rare courtier- 'Rain odours' well!
AGUECHEEK. That's me, I warrant you.
AGUECHEEK. The Count's gentleman, one Cesario. We took him for a
AGUECHEEK. There's a testril of me too; if one knight give a-
AGUECHEEK. Very sweet and contagious, i' faith.
AGUECHEEK. What is 'pourquoi'- do or not do? I would I had bestowed
AGUECHEEK. What's that?
AGUECHEEK. Where shall I find you?
AGUECHEEK. Wherefore, sweetheart? What's your metaphor?
AGUECHEEK. Why, I think so; I am not such an ass but I can keep my
AGUECHEEK. Why, would that have mended my hair?
AGUECHEEK. Will either of you bear me a challenge to him?
AIALVOLIO. 'Some are born great,'-
AIARIA. If you will then see the fruits of the sport, mark his
AJAX. Do not chafe thee, cousin;
AJAX. Great Agamemnon comes to meet us here.
AJAX. I thank thee, Hector.
AJAX. I'll fight with him alone. Stand, Diomed.
AJAX. If I might in entreaties find success,
AJAX. If it be so, yet bragless let it be;
AJAX. No, not a whit.
AJAX. No, yonder 'tis;
AJAX. Troilus! thou coward Troilus!                            Exit
AJAX. Troilus, thou coward Troilus, show thy head.
AJAX. Were I the general, thou shouldst have my office
AJAX. What wouldst thou?
ALL. Hector! The gods forbid!
ANDROMACHE. Cassandra, call my father to persuade.
ANDROMACHE. Do not, dear father.
ANDROMACHE. Here, sister, arm'd, and bloody in intent.
ANDROMACHE. My dreams will, sure, prove ominous to the day.
ANDROMACHE. O, be persuaded! Do not count it holy
ANDROMACHE. When was my lord so much ungently temper'd
ANTIGONUS,    "   "     "
ANTIGONUS.  [Aside]  To laughter, as I take it,
ANTIGONUS. And I wish, my liege,
ANTIGONUS. Be certain what you do, sir, lest your justice
ANTIGONUS. If it be so,
ANTIGONUS. If it prove
ANTIGONUS. It is for you we speak, not for ourselves.
ANTONIO, a sea captain, friend of Sebastian
ANTONIO, father to Proteus
ANTONIO. Alas the day!
ANTONIO. And how stand you affected to his wish?
ANTONIO. But, O, how vile an idol proves this god!
ANTONIO. Good company; with them shall Proteus go.
ANTONIO. Haply your eye shall light upon some toy
ANTONIO. How have you made division of yourself?
ANTONIO. How now! What letter are you reading there?
ANTONIO. I Must obey. [To VIOLA] This comes with seeking you;
ANTONIO. I could not stay behind you: my desire,
ANTONIO. I know it well.
ANTONIO. I like thy counsel; well hast thou advis'd;
ANTONIO. I must entreat of you some of that money.
ANTONIO. If you will not murder me for my love, let me be your
ANTONIO. It doth not fit me. Hold, sir, here's my purse;
ANTONIO. Lead me on.                        Exit with OFFICERS
ANTONIO. Lend me the letter; let me see what news.
ANTONIO. Let me know of you whither you are bound.
ANTONIO. Let me speak a little. This youth that you see here
ANTONIO. Look what thou want'st shall be sent after thee.
ANTONIO. My will is something sorted with his wish.
ANTONIO. Nor need'st thou much importune me to that
ANTONIO. O heavens themselves!
ANTONIO. One, sir, that for his love dares yet do more
ANTONIO. Orsino, noble sir,
ANTONIO. Pardon me, sir, your bad entertainment.
ANTONIO. Put up your sword. If this young gentleman
ANTONIO. Sebastian are you?
ANTONIO. Tell me, Panthino, what sad talk was that
ANTONIO. The gentleness of all the gods go with thee!
ANTONIO. To th' Elephant.
ANTONIO. To-day, my lord; and for three months before,
ANTONIO. To-morrow, sir; best first go see your lodging.
ANTONIO. Why, what of him?
ANTONIO. Will you deny me now?
ANTONIO. Will you stay no longer; nor will you not that I go with
ANTONIO. Would you'd pardon me.
ANTONIO. You do mistake me, sir.
ANTONIO.Th' offence is not of such a bloody nature;
ARCHIDAMUS, a lord of Bohemia
ARCHIDAMUS. Believe me, I speak as my understanding instructs me
ARCHIDAMUS. I think there is not in the world either malice or
ARCHIDAMUS. If the King had no son, they would desire to live on
ARCHIDAMUS. If you shall chance, Camillo, to visit Bohemia, on the
ARCHIDAMUS. Verily, I speak it in the freedom of my knowledge: we
ARCHIDAMUS. Wherein our entertainment shall shame us we will be
ARCHIDAMUS. Would they else be content to die?
AUTOLYCUS, a rogue
CALCHAS. [Within] She comes to you.
CALCHAS. [Within] Who calls?
CAMILLO,    lord of Sicilia
CAMILLO. At the good Queen's entreaty.
CAMILLO. Ay, my good lord.
CAMILLO. Be it forbid, my lord!
CAMILLO. Beseech you-
CAMILLO. Business, my lord? I think most understand
CAMILLO. By the King.
CAMILLO. Good my lord, be cur'd
CAMILLO. Hail, most royal sir!
CAMILLO. He thinks, nay, with all confidence he swears,
CAMILLO. He would not stay at your petitions; made
CAMILLO. I am appointed him to murder you.
CAMILLO. I dare not know, my lord.
CAMILLO. I know not; but I am sure 'tis safer to
CAMILLO. I may not answer.
CAMILLO. I must believe you, sir.
CAMILLO. I think this coming summer the King of Sicilia means to
CAMILLO. I very well agree with you in the hopes of him. It is a
CAMILLO. I would not be a stander-by to hear
CAMILLO. I'll do't, my lord.
CAMILLO. It is in mine authority to command
CAMILLO. My gracious lord,
CAMILLO. My lord,
CAMILLO. No, no, my lord.
CAMILLO. None rare, my lord.
CAMILLO. O miserable lady! But, for me,
CAMILLO. Sicilia cannot show himself overkind to Bohemia. They were
CAMILLO. Sir, I will tell you;
CAMILLO. Sir, my lord,
CAMILLO. Stays here longer.
CAMILLO. Swear his thought over
CAMILLO. There is a sickness
CAMILLO. To satisfy your Highness, and the entreaties
CAMILLO. Who does her?
CAMILLO. Yes; if there were no other excuse why they should desire
CAMILLO. You had much ado to make his anchor hold;
CAMILLO. You pay a great deal too dear for what's given freely.
CAPTAIN. A noble duke, in nature as in name.
CAPTAIN. A virtuous maid, the daughter of a count
CAPTAIN. And so is now, or was so very late;
CAPTAIN. Ay, madam, well; for I was bred and born
CAPTAIN. Be you his eunuch and your mute I'll be;
CAPTAIN. It is perchance that you yourself were saved.
CAPTAIN. Orsino.
CAPTAIN. That were hard to compass,
CAPTAIN. This is Illyria, lady.
CAPTAIN. True, madam, and, to comfort you with chance,
CASSANDRA. Farewell!-yet, soft! Hector, I take my leave.
CASSANDRA. It is the purpose that makes strong the vow;
CASSANDRA. Lay hold upon him, Priam, hold him fast;
CASSANDRA. No notes of sally, for the heavens, sweet brother!
CASSANDRA. O Priam, yield not to him!
CASSANDRA. O, 'tis true!
CASSANDRA. O, farewell, dear Hector!
CASSANDRA. The gods are deaf to hot and peevish vows;
CASSANDRA. Where is my brother Hector?
CLEOMENES,    "   "     "
CLOWN, his son
CLOWN. 'Hold thy peace, thou knave' knight? I shall be constrain'd
CLOWN. Advise you what. you say: the minister is here.
CLOWN. Alas, sir, be patient. What say you, sir? I am shent for
CLOWN. Alas, sir, how fell you besides your five wits?
CLOWN. Apt, in good faith, very apt! Well, go thy way; if Sir Toby
CLOWN. Are you ready, sir?
CLOWN. Ay, Madam.
CLOWN. Ay, sir, we are some of her trappings.
CLOWN. Beshrew me, the knight's in admirable fooling.
CLOWN. Bonos dies, Sir Toby; for as the old hermit of Prague, that
CLOWN. But as well? Then you are mad indeed, if you be no better in
CLOWN. But that it would be double-dealing, sir, I would you could
CLOWN. By my troth, sir, no; though it please you to be one of my
CLOWN. By my troth, thou hast an open hand. These wise men that
CLOWN. By'r lady, sir, and some dogs will catch well.
CLOWN. Dexteriously, good madonna.
CLOWN. Do not desire to see this letter.
CLOWN. Do you not hear, fellows? Take away the lady.
CLOWN. Fare thee well. Remain thou still in darkness: thou shalt
CLOWN. Fie, thou dishonest Satan! I call thee by the most modest
CLOWN. Foolery, sir, does walk about the orb like the sun- it
CLOWN. God send you, sir, a speedy infirmity, for the better
CLOWN. Good Master Fabian, grant me another request.
CLOWN. Good Sir Toby!
CLOWN. Good madonna, why mourn'st thou?
CLOWN. He is but mad yet, madonna, and the fool shall look to the
CLOWN. He shall see none to fear.
CLOWN. How now, my hearts! Did you never see the picture of 'we
CLOWN. I did impeticos thy gratillity; for Malvolio's nose is no
CLOWN. I must catechize you for it, madonna.
CLOWN. I shall never begin if I hold my peace.
CLOWN. I think his soul is in hell, madonna.
CLOWN. I will help you to't. But tell me true, are you not mad
CLOWN. I would play Lord Pandarus of Phrygia, sir, to bring a
CLOWN. I would, therefore, my sister had had name, sir.
CLOWN. Let her hang me. He that is well hang'd in this world needs
CLOWN. Like a drown'd man, a fool, and a madman: one draught above
CLOWN. Look then to be well edified when the fool delivers the
CLOWN. Madman, thou errest. I say there is no darkness but
CLOWN. Maintain no words with him, good fellow.- Who, I, sir? Not
CLOWN. Many a good hanging prevents a bad marriage; and for turning
CLOWN. Marry, sir, lullaby to your bounty till I come again. I go,
CLOWN. Marry, sir, they praise me and make an ass of me. Now my
CLOWN. Master Malvolio?
CLOWN. Misprision in the highest degree! Lady, 'Cucullus non facit
CLOWN. Nay, I am for all waters.
CLOWN. Nay, I'll ne'er believe a madman till I see his brains.
CLOWN. No pains, sir; I take pleasure in singing, sir.
CLOWN. No such matter, sir: I do live by the church; for I do live
CLOWN. No, indeed, sir; the Lady Olivia has no folly; she will keep
CLOWN. No, madam, I do but read madness. An your ladyship will have
CLOWN. No, sir, I live by the church.
CLOWN. No, sir, the worse.
CLOWN. Not so, neither; but I am resolv'd on two points.
CLOWN. Not so, sir; I do care for something; but in my conscience,
CLOWN. Now Jove, in his next commodity of hair, send the a beard!
CLOWN. Now Mercury endue thee with leasing, for thou speak'st well
CLOWN. Now the melancholy god protect thee; and the tailor make thy
CLOWN. O, he's drunk, Sir Toby, an hour agone; his eyes were set at
CLOWN. Out, hyperbolical fiend! How vexest thou this man!
CLOWN. Primo, secundo, tertio, is a good play; and the old saying
CLOWN. Put your grace in your pocket, sir, for this once, and let
CLOWN. Sir Topas the curate, who comes to visit Malvolio the
CLOWN. So I do, madonna; but to read his right wits is to read
CLOWN. The matter, I hope, is not great, sir, begging but a beggar:
CLOWN. The more fool, madonna, to mourn for your brother's soul
CLOWN. This will I tell my lady straight. I would not be in some of
CLOWN. Thou hast spoke for us, madonna, as if thy eldest son should
CLOWN. Troth, sir, I can yield you none without words, and words
CLOWN. Truly, madam, he holds Belzebub at the stave's end as well
CLOWN. Truly, sir, and pleasure will be paid one time or another.
CLOWN. Truly, sir, the better for my foes and the worse for my
CLOWN. Two faults, madonna, that drink and good counsel will amend;
CLOWN. Vent my folly! He has heard that word of some great man, and
CLOWN. Well held out, i' faith! No, I do not know you; nor I am not
CLOWN. Well, God give them wisdom that have it; and those that are
CLOWN. Well, I'll put it on, and I will dissemble myself in't; and
CLOWN. Well-a-day that you were, sir!
CLOWN. What ho, I say! Peace in this prison!
CLOWN. What is the opinion of Pythagoras concerning wild fowl?
CLOWN. What think'st thou of his opinion?
CLOWN. Where, good Mistress Mary?
CLOWN. Why, 'Some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some
CLOWN. Why, it hath bay windows transparent as barricadoes, and the
CLOWN. Why, sir, her name's a word; and to dally with that word
CLOWN. Will you make me believe that I am not sent for you?
CLOWN. Wit, an't be thy will, put me into good fooling! Those wits
CLOWN. Would not a pair of these have bred, sir?
CLOWN. Yes, by Saint Anne; and ginger shall be hot i' th' mouth
CLOWN. You have said, sir. To see this age! A sentence is but a
CLOWN. [Singing]
CLOWN. [Sings] Alas, why is she so?
CLOWN. [Sings] Hey, Robin, jolly Robin,
CLOWN. [Sings] His eyes do show his days are almost done.
CLOWN. [Sings] My lady is unkind, perdy.
CLOWN. [Sings] O, no, no, no, no, you dare not.
CLOWN. [Sings] She loves another- Who calls, ha?
CLOWN. [Sings] Sir Toby, there you lie.
CLOWN. [Sings] What an if you do?
CRESSIDA. 'Twas one's that lov'd me better than you will.
CRESSIDA. Ay, come-O Jove! Do come. I shall be plagu'd.
CRESSIDA. By all Diana's waiting women yond,
CRESSIDA. Diomed!
CRESSIDA. Good night. I prithee come.                 Exit DIOMEDES
CRESSIDA. Guardian! Why, Greek!
CRESSIDA. Hark! a word in your ear.
CRESSIDA. Here, Diomed, keep this sleeve.
CRESSIDA. I prithee, do not hold me to mine oath;
CRESSIDA. I'll fetch you one.                                  Exit
CRESSIDA. I'll tell you what-
CRESSIDA. In faith, I cannot. What would you have me do?
CRESSIDA. In faith, I do not. Come hither once again.
CRESSIDA. In faith, I will, lo; never trust me else.
CRESSIDA. It is no matter, now I ha't again.
CRESSIDA. It is no matter.
CRESSIDA. Nay, but you part in anger.
CRESSIDA. Now, my sweet guardian! Hark, a word with you.
CRESSIDA. O all you gods! O pretty, pretty pledge!
CRESSIDA. Remember? Yes.
CRESSIDA. Sweet honey Greek, tempt me no more to folly.
CRESSIDA. Well, well, 'tis done, 'tis past; and yet it is not;
CRESSIDA. What, this?
CRESSIDA. You look upon that sleeve; behold it well.
CRESSIDA. You shall not go. One cannot speak a word
CRESSIDA. You shall not have it, Diomed; faith, you shall not;
CURIO, gentleman attending on the Duke
CURIO. Feste, the jester, my lord; a fool that the Lady Olivia's
CURIO. He is not here, so please your lordship, that should sing
CURIO. The hart.
CURIO. Will you go hunt, my lord?
DIOMEDES. 'Tis Agamemnon's wish; and great Achilles
DIOMEDES. And so, good night.
DIOMEDES. Ay, that.
DIOMEDES. Ay, there, there.
DIOMEDES. But will you, then?
DIOMEDES. Come, tell me whose it was.
DIOMEDES. Diomed. Calchas, I think. Where's your daughter?
DIOMEDES. Farewell till then.
DIOMEDES. Fo, fo! adieu! you palter.
DIOMEDES. Fo, fo! come, tell a pin; you are a forsworn-
DIOMEDES. Give me some token for the surety of it.
DIOMEDES. Go, go, my servant, take thou Troilus' horse;
DIOMEDES. Good night.
DIOMEDES. Ha! art thou there?
DIOMEDES. He is my prize. I will not look upon.
DIOMEDES. How now, my charge!
DIOMEDES. I cannot, lord; I have important business,
DIOMEDES. I do not like this fooling.
DIOMEDES. I had your heart before; this follows it.
DIOMEDES. I shall have it.
DIOMEDES. I will have this. Whose was it?
DIOMEDES. I would correct him.
DIOMEDES. Nay, but do, then;
DIOMEDES. Nay, then-
DIOMEDES. No, no, good night; I'll be your fool no more.
DIOMEDES. The bruit is Hector's slain, and by Achilles.
DIOMEDES. Thou dost miscall retire.
DIOMEDES. To-morrow will I wear it on my helm,
DIOMEDES. Troilus, I say! Where's Troilus?
DIOMEDES. What did you swear you would bestow on me?
DIOMEDES. What, are you up here, ho? Speak.
DIOMEDES. What, shall I come? The hour-
DIOMEDES. Whose was it?
DIOMEDES. Whose was't?
DIOMEDES. Why, then farewell;
DIOMEDES. Will you remember?
DION,         "   "     "
DORCAS,        "
DUKE OF MILAN, father to Silvia
DUKE. A cloak as long as thine will serve the turn?
DUKE. About it, gentlemen!
DUKE. And also, I think, thou art not ignorant
DUKE. And what's her history?
DUKE. And, Proteus, we dare trust you in this kind,
DUKE. Ay,
DUKE. Ay, and perversely she persevers so.
DUKE. Ay, but she'll think that it is spoke in hate.
DUKE. Ay, but the doors be lock'd and keys kept safe,
DUKE. Ay, that's the theme.
DUKE. Ay; prithee, sing.                               [Music]
DUKE. Be clamorous and leap all civil bounds,
DUKE. Be not amaz'd; right noble is his blood.
DUKE. Be they of much import?
DUKE. Belong you to the Lady Olivia, friends?
DUKE. Beshrew me, sir, but if he make this good,
DUKE. But died thy sister of her love, my boy?
DUKE. But she I mean is promis'd by her friends
DUKE. But she did scorn a present that I sent her.
DUKE. But, hark thee; I will go to her alone;
DUKE. Come, away!
DUKE. Dear lad, believe it,
DUKE. Even now about it! I will pardon you.             Exeunt
DUKE. Give me now leave to leave thee.
DUKE. Give me some music. Now, good morrow, friends.
DUKE. Give me thy hand;
DUKE. Gracious Olivia-
DUKE. Hath he not a son?
DUKE. Her chamber is aloft, far from the ground,
DUKE. Her husband, sirrah?
DUKE. Here comes the Countess; now heaven walks on earth.
DUKE. How can that be?
DUKE. How now, Sir Proteus! how now, Thurio!
DUKE. How now, gentleman? How is't with you?
DUKE. How shall I fashion me to wear a cloak?
DUKE. Husband?
DUKE. I cannot be so answer'd.
DUKE. I grant it for thine own, whate'er it be.
DUKE. I know thee well. How dost thou, my good fellow?
DUKE. I think the boy hath grace in him; he blushes.
DUKE. I'll pay thy pleasure, then.
DUKE. If music be the food of love, play on,
DUKE. Is this the madman?
DUKE. Just the contrary: the better for thy friends.
DUKE. Know ye Don Antonio, your countryman?
DUKE. Let all the rest give place.
DUKE. Madam, I am most apt t' embrace your offer.
DUKE. My daughter takes his going grievously.
DUKE. My gentleman, Cesario?
DUKE. Nay then, no matter; stay with me awhile;
DUKE. No, trust me; she is peevish, sullen, froward,
DUKE. Notable pirate, thou salt-water thief!
DUKE. Now, as thou art a gentleman of blood,
DUKE. Now, daughter Silvia, you are hard beset.
DUKE. O thou dissembling cub! What wilt thou be,
DUKE. O, fellow, come, the song we had last night.
DUKE. O, she that hath a heart of that fine frame
DUKE. O, then unfold the passion of my love,
DUKE. O, you give me ill counsel.
DUKE. One face, one voice, one habit, and two persons!
DUKE. Proteus, I thank thee for thine honest care,
DUKE. Pursue him, and entreat him to a peace;
DUKE. Saw you my daughter?
DUKE. Seek him out, and play the tune the while.
DUKE. She is not worth thee, then. What years, i' faith?
DUKE. Sir Thurio, fear not but that she will love you
DUKE. Sir Thurio, give us leave, I pray, awhile;
DUKE. Sir Valentine!
DUKE. Sir Valentine, whither away so fast?
DUKE. So I believe; but Thurio thinks not so.
DUKE. Stand you awhile aloof. Cesario,
DUKE. Still so cruel?
DUKE. That face of his I do remember well;
DUKE. The more degenerate and base art thou
DUKE. Then let me see thy cloak.
DUKE. Then let thy love be younger than thyself,
DUKE. Then you must undertake to slander him.
DUKE. There is a lady, in Verona here,
DUKE. There is no woman's sides
DUKE. There's for thy pains.
DUKE. This discipline shows thou hast been in love.
DUKE. This savours not much of distraction.
DUKE. This very night; for Love is like a child,
DUKE. This weak impress of love is as a figure
DUKE. Thou dost speak masterly.
DUKE. Thou hast prevail'd; I pardon them, and thee;
DUKE. Thou know'st how willingly I would effect
DUKE. Thou shalt not be the worse for me. There's gold.
DUKE. Too old, by heaven! Let still the woman take
DUKE. Upon mine honour, he shall never know
DUKE. Welcome him, then, according to his worth-
DUKE. Well, I will be so much a sinner to be a double-dealer.
DUKE. What dost thou know?
DUKE. What kind of woman is't?
DUKE. What mean you by that saying?
DUKE. What, Curio?
DUKE. What, to perverseness? You uncivil lady,
DUKE. When came he to this town?
DUKE. Where your good word cannot advantage him,
DUKE. Who saw Cesario, ho?
DUKE. Who was it?
DUKE. Why should I not, had I the heart to do it,
DUKE. Why then,
DUKE. Why, so I do, the noblest that I have.
DUKE. Why, this is excellent.
DUKE. You can fool no more money out of me at this throw; if you
DUKE. You know him well?
EGLAMOUR, agent for Silvia in her escape
EGLAMOUR. As many, worthy lady, to yourself!
EGLAMOUR. Fear not. The forest is not three leagues off;
EGLAMOUR. I will not fail your ladyship. Good morrow, gentle lady.
EGLAMOUR. Madam, I pity much your grievances;
EGLAMOUR. The sun begins to gild the western sky,
EGLAMOUR. This is the hour that Madam Silvia
EGLAMOUR. Where shall I meet you?
EGLAMOUR. Your servant and your friend;
EMILIA, a lady attending on the Queen
EMILIA. A daughter, and a goodly babe,
EMILIA. As well as one so great and so forlorn
EMILIA. Most worthy madam,
FABIAN, servant to Olivia
FABIAN. A coward, a most devout coward, religious in it.
FABIAN. A fustian riddle!
FABIAN. A good note; that keeps you from the blow of the law.
FABIAN. And O shall end, I hope.
FABIAN. And his opposite, the youth, bears in his visage no great
FABIAN. Anything.
FABIAN. Ay, an you had any eye behind you, you might see more
FABIAN. Carry his water to th' wise woman.
FABIAN. Come, let's see the event.
FABIAN. Did not I say he would work it out?
FABIAN. Give ground if you see him furious.
FABIAN. Good and valiant.
FABIAN. Good madam, hear me speak,
FABIAN. Good.
FABIAN. Here comes my noble gull-catcher.
FABIAN. Here he comes with your niece; give them way till he take
FABIAN. Here he is, here he is. How is't with you, sir?
FABIAN. I know the knight is incens'd against you, even to a mortal
FABIAN. I will not give my part of this sport for a pension of
FABIAN. I will prove it legitimate, sir, upon the oaths of judgment
FABIAN. I would exult, man; you know he brought me out o' favour
FABIAN. If this were play'd upon a stage now, I could condemn it as
FABIAN. Is't so saucy?
FABIAN. More matter for a May morning.
FABIAN. Nay, I'll come; if I lose a scruple of this sport let me be
FABIAN. Nay, patience, or we break the sinews of our plot.
FABIAN. No way but gentleness- gently, gently. The fiend is rough,
FABIAN. Nothing of that wonderful promise, to read him by his form,
FABIAN. Now is the woodcock near the gin.
FABIAN. Now, as thou lov'st me, let me see his letter.
FABIAN. O good Sir Toby, hold! Here come the officers.
FABIAN. O, peace! Contemplation makes a rare turkey-cock of him;
FABIAN. O, peace! Now he's deeply in; look how imagination blows
FABIAN. O, peace, peace!
FABIAN. O, peace, peace, peace! Now, now.
FABIAN. She did show favour to the youth in your sight only to
FABIAN. Sowter will cry upon't for all this, though it be as rank
FABIAN. Still you keep o' th' windy side of the law. Good!
FABIAN. There is no way but this, Sir Andrew.
FABIAN. This is a dear manakin to you, Sir Toby.
FABIAN. This is to give a dog, and in recompense desire my dog
FABIAN. This was a great argument of love in her toward you.
FABIAN. This wins him, liver and all.
FABIAN. Though our silence be drawn from us with cars, yet peace.
FABIAN. Very brief, and to exceeding good sense- less.
FABIAN. We shall have a rare letter from him; but you'll not
FABIAN. What dish o' poison has she dress'd him!
FABIAN. Why, we shall make him mad indeed.
FABIAN. You must needs yield your reason, Sir Andrew.
FABIAN. [Reads] 'By the Lord, madam, you wrong me, and the world
FABIAN. [To SIR TOBY] He is as horribly conceited of him; and pants
FESTE, a clown, servant to Olivia
FIRST LADY. Blue, my lord.
FIRST LADY. Come, my gracious lord,
FIRST LADY. Hark ye:
FIRST LADY. Why, my sweet lord?
FIRST LORD. Behind the tuft of pines I met them; never
FIRST LORD. Beseech your Highness, call the Queen again.
FIRST LORD. By his great authority;
FIRST LORD. For her, my lord,
FIRST LORD. Good my lord-
FIRST LORD. I had rather you did lack than I, my lord,
FIRST LORD. Well done, my lord.
FIRST OFFICER. No, sir, no jot; I know your favour well,
FIRST OFFICER. Orsino, this is that Antonio
FIRST OFFICER. The man grows mad. Away with him.
FIRST OFFICER. This is the man; do thy office.
FIRST OFFICER. What's that to us? The time goes by; away.
FIRST OUTLAW. And I for such-like petty crimes as these.
FIRST OUTLAW. But if thou scorn our courtesy thou diest.
FIRST OUTLAW. Come, I must bring you to our captain's cave;
FIRST OUTLAW. Come, come.
FIRST OUTLAW. Fellows, stand fast; I see a passenger.
FIRST OUTLAW. That's not so, sir; we are your enemies.
FIRST OUTLAW. We'll have him. Sirs, a word.
FIRST OUTLAW. What, were you banish'd thence?
FIRST OUTLAW. Whence came you?
FIRST OUTLAW. Where is the gentleman that was with her?
FIRST OUTLAW. Why, ne'er repent it, if it were done so.
FLORIZEL, his son, Prince of Bohemia
GAOLER. And, madam,
GAOLER. For a worthy lady,
GAOLER. I may not, madam;
GAOLER. So please you, madam,
HECTOR. Aeneas is a-field;
HECTOR. Aeneas, call my brother Troilus to me,
HECTOR. And so, good night.
HECTOR. Andromache, I am offended with you.
HECTOR. Be gone, I say. The gods have heard me swear.
HECTOR. Fare thee well.
HECTOR. Fie, savage, fie!
HECTOR. Give me your hand.
HECTOR. Good night, sweet Lord Menelaus.
HECTOR. Ho! bid my trumpet sound.
HECTOR. Hold you still, I say.
HECTOR. How now! how now!
HECTOR. I am unarm'd; forego this vantage, Greek.
HECTOR. I do believe thee. Live.                               Exit
HECTOR. I know your favour, Lord Ulysses, well.
HECTOR. I must not believe you.
HECTOR. I must not break my faith.
HECTOR. I pray you let us see you in the field;
HECTOR. I thank thee, most imperious Agamemnon.
HECTOR. I trouble you.
HECTOR. I would they could.
HECTOR. Is this Achilles?
HECTOR. It would discredit the blest gods, proud man,
HECTOR. Let me embrace thee, good old chronicle,
HECTOR. Most putrified core so fair without,
HECTOR. Nay, I have done already.
HECTOR. No more, I say.
HECTOR. No, faith, young Troilus; doff thy harness, youth;
HECTOR. Not Neoptolemus so mirable,
HECTOR. O you, my lord? By Mars his gauntlet, thanks!
HECTOR. O, 'tis fair play!
HECTOR. O, like a book of sport thou'lt read me o'er;
HECTOR. O, pardon; I offend.
HECTOR. Pause, if thou wilt.
HECTOR. Stand fair, I pray thee; let me look on thee.
HECTOR. Stand, stand, thou Greek; thou art a goodly mark.
HECTOR. Thanks, and good night to the Greeks' general.
HECTOR. The worthiest of them tell me name by name;
HECTOR. Thy hand upon that match.
HECTOR. Troilus, I would not have you fight to-day.
HECTOR. We'll answer it:
HECTOR. Wert thou an oracle to tell me so,
HECTOR. What art thou, Greek? Art thou for Hector's match?
HECTOR. What vice is that, good Troilus?
HECTOR. Who must we answer?
HECTOR. Yea, Troilus? O, well fought, my youngest brother!
HECTOR. You are amaz'd, my liege, at her exclaim.
HECTOR. You train me to offend you; get you in.
HERMIONE, Queen to Leontes
HERMIONE. 'Tis Grace indeed.
HERMIONE. As merry as you will.
HERMIONE. But I'd say he had not,
HERMIONE. By this we gather
HERMIONE. Come on then,
HERMIONE. Grace to boot!
HERMIONE. He something seems unsettled.
HERMIONE. He'll stay, my lord.
HERMIONE. I had thought, sir, to have held my peace until
HERMIONE. If you would seek us,
HERMIONE. Let's have that, good sir.
HERMIONE. Nay, but you will?
HERMIONE. Nay, come, sit down; then on.
HERMIONE. Never?
HERMIONE. No, by my life,
HERMIONE. Not your gaoler then,
HERMIONE. Should a villain say so,
HERMIONE. Take the boy to you; he so troubles me,
HERMIONE. There's some ill planet reigns.
HERMIONE. To tell he longs to see his son were strong;
HERMIONE. Verily!
HERMIONE. Was not my lord
HERMIONE. What is this? Sport?
HERMIONE. What wisdom stirs amongst you? Come, sir, now
HERMIONE. What! Have I twice said well? When was't before?
HERMIONE. Who is't that goes with me? Beseech your highness
HERMIONE. You look
HOST, where Julia lodges in Milan
HOST. Ay, that you shall.                        [Music plays]
HOST. Ay; but peace! let's hear 'em.
HOST. By my halidom, I was fast asleep.
HOST. Come, we'll have you merry; I'll bring you where you shall
HOST. Gone to seek his dog, which to-morrow, by his master's
HOST. Hark, hark!
HOST. Hark, what fine change is in the music!
HOST. How now, are you sadder than you were before?
HOST. How, out of tune on the strings?
HOST. I perceive you delight not in music.
HOST. I tell you what Launce, his man, told me: he lov'd her out of
HOST. Marry, at my house. Trust me, I think 'tis almost day.
HOST. Now, my young guest, methinks you're allycholly; I pray you,
HOST. Why, my pretty youth?
HOST. You have a quick ear.
HOST. You would have them always play but one thing?
JULIA, a lady of Verona, beloved of Proteus
JULIA.  [Aside]  'Tis true, such pearls as put out ladies' eyes;
JULIA.  [Aside]  'Twere false, if I should speak it;
JULIA.  [Aside]  And me, when he approacheth to your presence.
JULIA.  [Aside]  But better, indeed, when you hold your peace.
JULIA.  [Aside]  But love will not be spurr'd to what it loathes.
JULIA.  [Aside]  He heard not that.
JULIA.  [Aside]  If 'twere a substance, you would, sure, deceive it
JULIA.  [Aside]  She needs not, when she knows it cowardice.
JULIA.  [Aside]  That such an ass should owe them.
JULIA.  [Aside]  True; from a gentleman to a fool.
JULIA. 'To Julia'- Say, from whom?
JULIA. A true-devoted pilgrim is not weary
JULIA. About my stature; for at Pentecost,
JULIA. Alas!
JULIA. Almost as well as I do know myself.
JULIA. And I mine.
JULIA. And I will follow, more to cross that love
JULIA. And Julia herself did give it me;
JULIA. And is that paper nothing?
JULIA. And seal the bargain with a holy kiss.
JULIA. And she shall thank you for't, if e'er you know her.
JULIA. And why not you?
JULIA. And wouldst thou have me cast my love on him?
JULIA. And yet, I would I had o'erlook'd the letter.
JULIA. As little by such toys as may be possible.
JULIA. Ay, I would I were deaf; it makes me have a slow heart.
JULIA. Ay, madam.
JULIA. Ay, that change is the spite.
JULIA. Base men that use them to so base effect!
JULIA. Because methinks that she lov'd you as well
JULIA. Behold her that gave aim to all thy oaths,
JULIA. But say, Lucetta, now we are alone,
JULIA. But shall I hear him speak?
JULIA. Come, come; will't please you go?                Exeunt
JULIA. Counsel, Lucetta; gentle girl, assist me;
JULIA. From my master, Sir Proteus, madam.
JULIA. He plays false, father.
JULIA. Heavy! belike it hath some burden then.
JULIA. Here 'tis; this is it.
JULIA. Here comes the Duke.
JULIA. His little speaking shows his love but small.
JULIA. Host, will you go?
JULIA. How many women would do such a message?
JULIA. How now! what means this passion at his name?
JULIA. I cannot choose
JULIA. I must, where is no remedy.
JULIA. I see you have a month's mind to them.
JULIA. I thank you, madam, that you tender her.
JULIA. I think she doth, and that's her cause of sorrow.
JULIA. I would I knew his mind.
JULIA. I would always have one play but one thing.
JULIA. If you be she, I do entreat your patience
JULIA. If you respect them, best to take them up.
JULIA. If you turn not, you will return the sooner.
JULIA. In what you please; I'll do what I can.
JULIA. Is he among these?
JULIA. Is't near dinner time?
JULIA. It may not be; good madam, pardon me.
JULIA. It seems you lov'd not her, to leave her token.
JULIA. Let's see your song.     [LUCETTA withholds the letter]
JULIA. Lucetta, as thou lov'st me, let me have
JULIA. Madam, he sends your ladyship this ring.
JULIA. Madam, please you peruse this letter.
JULIA. Marry, mine host, because I cannot be merry.
JULIA. Nay, that I will not.
JULIA. Nay, would I were so ang'red with the same!
JULIA. No, girl; I'll knit it up in silken strings
JULIA. Not a whit, when it jars so.
JULIA. Not like a woman, for I would prevent
JULIA. Not so; but it hath been the longest night
JULIA. Not so; but yet so false that he grieves my very
JULIA. Now, as thou lov'st me, do him not that wrong
JULIA. Now, by my modesty, a goodly broker!
JULIA. O good sir, my master charg'd me to deliver a ring to Madam
JULIA. O me unhappy!                                  [Swoons]
JULIA. O, cry you mercy, sir, I have mistook;
JULIA. O, know'st thou not his looks are my soul's food?
JULIA. Of all the fair resort of gentlemen
JULIA. Out, out, Lucetta, that will be ill-favour'd.
JULIA. Peace, stand aside; the company parts.
JULIA. Pray you, where lies Sir Proteus?
JULIA. Say, say, who gave it thee?
JULIA. She hath been fairer, madam, than she is.
JULIA. She thanks you.
JULIA. Some love of yours hath writ to you in rhyme.
JULIA. That fits as well as 'Tell me, good my lord,
JULIA. That is the least, Lucetta, of my fear:
JULIA. That will be music.
JULIA. The mean is drown'd with your unruly bass.
JULIA. The more thou dam'st it up, the more it burns.
JULIA. Then let it lie for those that it concerns.
JULIA. They do not love that do not show their love.
JULIA. This babble shall not henceforth trouble me.
JULIA. Well, let us go.
JULIA. What is't that you took up so gingerly?
JULIA. What think'st thou of the fair Sir Eglamour?
JULIA. What think'st thou of the gentle Proteus?
JULIA. What think'st thou of the rich Mercatio?
JULIA. Where is Launce?
JULIA. Why didst thou stoop then?
JULIA. Why not on Proteus, as of all the rest?
JULIA. Why, he, of all the rest, hath never mov'd me.
JULIA. Will ye be gone?
JULIA. You do not!
JULIA. You mistake; the musician likes me not.
JULIA. You, minion, are too saucy.
JULIA. Your reason?
LAUNCE, the like to Proteus
LAUNCE.  [Handing over the paper]  There; and Saint Nicholas be thy
LAUNCE. A notable lubber, as thou reportest him to be.
LAUNCE. A special virtue; for then she need not be wash'd and
LAUNCE. And thereof comes the proverb: Blessing of your heart, you
LAUNCE. Ask my dog. If he say ay, it will; if he say no, it will;
LAUNCE. Ay, and what I do too; look thee, I'll but lean, and my
LAUNCE. Ay, sir; the other squirrel was stol'n from me by the
LAUNCE. Ay, that she can.
LAUNCE. Because thou hast not so much charity in thee as to go to
LAUNCE. Can nothing speak? Master, shall I strike?
LAUNCE. Close at the heels of her virtues.
LAUNCE. Fie on thee, jolt-head; thou canst not read.
LAUNCE. For fear thou shouldst lose thy tongue.
LAUNCE. For thee! ay, who art thou? He hath stay'd for a better man
LAUNCE. Forswear not thyself, sweet youth, for I am not welcome. I
LAUNCE. Him we go to find: there's not a hair on 's head but 'tis a
LAUNCE. I am but a fool, look you, and yet I have the wit to think
LAUNCE. I care not for that neither, because I love crusts.
LAUNCE. I never knew him otherwise.
LAUNCE. I will try thee. Tell me this: Who begot thee?
LAUNCE. If her liquor be good, she shall; if she will not, I will;
LAUNCE. In thy tale.
LAUNCE. It is no matter if the tied were lost; for it is the
LAUNCE. It's no matter for that, so she sleep not in her talk.
LAUNCE. Lose the tide, and the voyage, and the master, and the
LAUNCE. Marry, after they clos'd in earnest, they parted very
LAUNCE. Marry, she says your dog was a cur, and tells you currish
LAUNCE. Marry, sir, I carried Mistress Silvia the dog you bade me.
LAUNCE. Marry, thus: when it stands well with him, it stands well
LAUNCE. More hair than wit. It may be; I'll prove it: the cover of
LAUNCE. Nay, 'twill be this hour ere I have done weeping; all the
LAUNCE. No, indeed, did she not; here have I brought him back
LAUNCE. No, neither.
LAUNCE. No, they are both as whole as a fish.
LAUNCE. No.
LAUNCE. Nothing.
LAUNCE. Now will he be swing'd for reading my letter. An unmannerly
LAUNCE. O illiterate loiterer. It was the son of thy grandmother.
LAUNCE. O villain, that set this down among her vices! To be slow
LAUNCE. Of her tongue she cannot, for that's writ down she is slow
LAUNCE. Out with that too; it was Eve's legacy, and cannot be ta'en
LAUNCE. Sir, call me what thou dar'st.
LAUNCE. Sir, there is a proclamation that you are vanished.
LAUNCE. So-ho, so-ho!
LAUNCE. Stop there; I'll have her; she was mine, and not mine,
LAUNCE. That makes amends for her sour breath.
LAUNCE. That's as much as to say 'Can she so?'
LAUNCE. That's as much as to say 'bastard virtues'; that indeed
LAUNCE. That's monstrous. O that that were out!
LAUNCE. The black'st news that ever thou heard'st.
LAUNCE. Then may I set the world on wheels, when she can spin for
LAUNCE. Thou must run to him, for thou hast stay'd so long that
LAUNCE. Thou shalt never get such a secret from me but by a
LAUNCE. Well, I will go.                                Exeunt
LAUNCE. Well, that fault may be mended with a breakfast.
LAUNCE. Well, the best is, she hath no teeth to bite.
LAUNCE. What a block art thou that thou canst not! My staff
LAUNCE. What need a man care for a stock with a wench, when she can
LAUNCE. When a man's servant shall play the cur with him, look you,
LAUNCE. Why, I tell thee I care not though he burn himself in love.
LAUNCE. Why, as black as ink.
LAUNCE. Why, fool, I meant not thee, I meant thy master.
LAUNCE. Why, he that's tied here, Crab, my dog.
LAUNCE. Why, sir, I'll strike nothing. I pray you-
LAUNCE. Why, stand-under and under-stand is all one.
LAUNCE. Why, that word makes the faults gracious. Well, I'll have
LAUNCE. Why, then will I tell thee- that thy master stays for thee
LAUNCE. With my master's ship? Why, it is at sea.
LEONTES, King of Sicilia
LEONTES.  [Aside]  Too hot, too hot!
LEONTES.  [To the GUARD]  Shall I be heard?
LEONTES. 'At the Queen's' be't. 'Good' should be pertinent;
LEONTES. At my request he would not.
LEONTES. Ay, but why?
LEONTES. Bear the boy hence; he shall not come about her;
LEONTES. Cease; no more.
LEONTES. Didst note it?
LEONTES. Didst perceive it?
LEONTES. Go play, Mamillius; thou'rt an honest man.
LEONTES. Go, do our bidding; hence!
LEONTES. Ha' not you seen, Camillo-
LEONTES. Ha?
LEONTES. Hold your peaces.
LEONTES. How blest am I
LEONTES. How could that be?
LEONTES. I know't too well.
LEONTES. I will seem friendly, as thou hast advis'd me.   Exit
LEONTES. I' fecks!
LEONTES. Is he won yet?
LEONTES. Is whispering nothing?
LEONTES. It is; you lie, you lie.
LEONTES. Make that thy question, and go rot!
LEONTES. Never but once.
LEONTES. No, in good earnest.
LEONTES. No; if I mistake
LEONTES. One sev'night longer.
LEONTES. Satisfy
LEONTES. Say it be, 'tis true.
LEONTES. So stands this squire
LEONTES. Stay your thanks a while,
LEONTES. This is all:
LEONTES. Thou dost advise me
LEONTES. Thou want'st a rough pash and the shoots that I have,
LEONTES. Though I am satisfied, and need no more
LEONTES. To bide upon't: thou art not honest; or,
LEONTES. To your own bents dispose you; you'll be found,
LEONTES. Tongue-tied, our Queen? Speak you.
LEONTES. We are tougher, brother,
LEONTES. We'll part the time between's then; and in that
LEONTES. Well said, Hermione.
LEONTES. What! Lack I credit?
LEONTES. Why, he that wears her like her medal, hanging
LEONTES. Why, that was when
LEONTES. Why, that's some comfort.
LEONTES. Why, what need we
LEONTES. You have mistook, my lady,
LEONTES. You will? Why, happy man be's dole! My brother,
LEONTES. You, my lords,
LEONTES. he met there? his train? Camillo with him?
LUCETTA, waiting-woman to Julia
LUCETTA. A round hose, madam, now's not worth a pin,
LUCETTA. Alas, the way is wearisome and long!
LUCETTA. All these are servants to deceitful men.
LUCETTA. As of a knight well-spoken, neat, and fine;
LUCETTA. Ay, if you thought your love not cast away.
LUCETTA. Ay, madam, you may say what sights you see;
LUCETTA. Ay, madam; so you stumble not unheedfully.
LUCETTA. Ay; and melodious were it, would you sing it.
LUCETTA. Better forbear till Proteus make return.
LUCETTA. But in what habit will you go along?
LUCETTA. Fire that's closest kept burns most of all.
LUCETTA. I cannot reach so high.
LUCETTA. I do not seek to quench your love's hot fire,
LUCETTA. I have no other but a woman's reason:
LUCETTA. I would it were,
LUCETTA. If you think so, then stay at home and go not.
LUCETTA. Indeed, I bid the base for Proteus.
LUCETTA. It is too heavy for so light a tune.
LUCETTA. Keep tune there still, so you will sing it out.
LUCETTA. Lord, Lord! to see what folly reigns in us!
LUCETTA. Madam,
LUCETTA. Madam, it will not lie where it concerns,
LUCETTA. Nay, I was taken up for laying them down;
LUCETTA. Nay, now you are too flat
LUCETTA. No, madam; 'tis too sharp.
LUCETTA. Nothing concerning me.
LUCETTA. Nothing.
LUCETTA. O, they love least that let men know their love.
LUCETTA. Pardon, dear madam; 'tis a passing shame
LUCETTA. Peruse this paper, madam.
LUCETTA. Please you, repeat their names; I'll show my mind
LUCETTA. Pray heav'n he prove so when you come to him.
LUCETTA. She makes it strange; but she would be best pleas'd
LUCETTA. Sir Valentine's page; and sent, I think, from Proteus.
LUCETTA. That I might sing it, madam, to a tune.
LUCETTA. That the contents will show.
LUCETTA. That you may ruminate.                           Exit
LUCETTA. Then never dream on infamy, but go.
LUCETTA. Then thus: of many good I think him best.
LUCETTA. To plead for love deserves more fee than hate.
LUCETTA. To take a paper up that I let fall.
LUCETTA. Well of his wealth; but of himself, so so.
LUCETTA. What fashion, madam, shall I make your breeches?
LUCETTA. What would your ladyship?
LUCETTA. What, shall these papers lie like tell-tales here?
LUCETTA. Why then, your ladyship must cut your hair.
LUCETTA. Yet he, of all the rest, I think, best loves ye.
LUCETTA. You must needs have them with a codpiece, madam.
Lords, Priests, Sailors, Officers, Musicians, and Attendants
MALVOLIO, steward to Olivia
MALVOLIO. 'And some have greatness thrust upon them.'
MALVOLIO. 'And wish'd to see thee cross-garterd.'
MALVOLIO. 'Be not afraid of greatness.' 'Twas well writ.
MALVOLIO. 'Besides, you waste the treasure of your time with a
MALVOLIO. 'Go to, thou an made, if thou desir'st to be so';-
MALVOLIO. 'I may command where I adore.' Why, she may command me: I
MALVOLIO. 'If not, let me see thee a servant still.'
MALVOLIO. 'M. O. A. I. doth sway my life.'
MALVOLIO. 'One Sir Andrew.'
MALVOLIO. 'Remember who commended thy yellow stockings,'-
MALVOLIO. 'Some achieve greatness,'-
MALVOLIO. 'Tis but fortune; all is fortune. Maria once told me she
MALVOLIO. 'You must amend your drunkenness'-
MALVOLIO. Ah, ha! does she so?
MALVOLIO. And then I comes behind.
MALVOLIO. And then to have the humour of state; and after a demure
MALVOLIO. As hell, Sir Topas.
MALVOLIO. At your request? Yes, nightingales answer daws!
MALVOLIO. Ay, good fool.
MALVOLIO. Believe me, I am not; I tell thee true.
MALVOLIO. By my life, this is my lady's hand: these be her very
MALVOLIO. By this hand, I am. Good fool, some ink, paper, and
MALVOLIO. Calling my officers about me, in my branch'd velvet gown,
MALVOLIO. Come, sir, you peevishly threw it to her; and her will is
MALVOLIO. Do you know what you say?
MALVOLIO. Fool I say!
MALVOLIO. Fool!
MALVOLIO. Fool!
MALVOLIO. Fool, I'll requite it in the highest degree; I prithe be
MALVOLIO. Fool, fool, fool, I say!
MALVOLIO. Fool, there was never man so notoriously abus'd;
MALVOLIO. Gentlewoman, my lady calls.                     Exit
MALVOLIO. Go off; I discard you. Let me enjoy my private; go off.
MALVOLIO. Go, hang yourselves all! You are idle shallow things; I
MALVOLIO. Good fool, as ever thou wilt deserve well at my hand,
MALVOLIO. Good fool, help me to some light and some paper.
MALVOLIO. Has been told so; and he says he'll stand at your door
MALVOLIO. Having been three months married to her, sitting in my
MALVOLIO. Here, madam, at your service.
MALVOLIO. How now, mistress!
MALVOLIO. I am not mad, Sir Topas. I say to you this house is dark.
MALVOLIO. I extend my hand to him thus, quenching my familiar smile
MALVOLIO. I marvel your ladyship takes delight in such a barren
MALVOLIO. I say this house is as dark as ignorance, though
MALVOLIO. I think nobly of the soul, and no way approve his
MALVOLIO. I'll be reveng'd on the whole pack of you.
MALVOLIO. Is't even so?
MALVOLIO. Lady, you have. Pray you peruse that letter.
MALVOLIO. M- But then there is no consonancy in the sequel; that
MALVOLIO. M- Malvolio; M- why, that begins my name.
MALVOLIO. M. O. A. I. This simulation is not as the former; and
MALVOLIO. Madam, I will.                                  Exit
MALVOLIO. Madam, yond young fellow swears he will speak with you. I
MALVOLIO. Madam, you have done me wrong,
MALVOLIO. Mistress Mary, if you priz'd my lady's favour at anything
MALVOLIO. My masters, are you mad? Or what are you? Have you no
MALVOLIO. My prayers, minx!
MALVOLIO. Not black in my mind, though yellow in my legs.
MALVOLIO. Not yet old enough for a man, nor young enough for a boy;
MALVOLIO. O, ho! do you come near me now? No worse man than Sir
MALVOLIO. Of very ill manner; he'll speak with you, will you or no.
MALVOLIO. Sad, lady? I could be sad. This does make some
MALVOLIO. Saying 'Cousin Toby, my fortunes having cast me on your
MALVOLIO. Seven of my people, with an obedient start, make out for
MALVOLIO. She returns this ring to you, sir; you might have saved
MALVOLIO. Sir Toby, I must be round with you. My lady bade me tell
MALVOLIO. Sir Topas!
MALVOLIO. Sir Topas, Sir Topas!
MALVOLIO. Sir Topas, Sir Topas, good Sir Topas, go to my lady.
MALVOLIO. Sir Topas, never was man thus wronged. Good Sir Topas, do
MALVOLIO. Sir!
MALVOLIO. Sweet lady, ho, ho.
MALVOLIO. That the soul of our grandam might haply inhabit a bird.
MALVOLIO. There is example for't: the Lady of the Strachy married
MALVOLIO. They have here propertied me; keep me in darkness, send
MALVOLIO. This is much credit to you.
MALVOLIO. To be Count Malvolio!
MALVOLIO. To bed? Ay, sweetheart, and I'll come to thee.
MALVOLIO. Were you not ev'n now with the Countess Olivia?
MALVOLIO. What employment have we here?
MALVOLIO. Why, of mankind.
MALVOLIO. Yes, and shall do, till the pangs of death shake him.
MALVOLIO. [Reads]
MALVOLIO. [Reads]
MALVOLIO. [Reads] 'To the unknown belov'd, this, and my good
MALVOLIO. [Within] Who calls there?
MAMILLIUS, his son, the young Prince of Sicilia
MAMILLIUS. A sad tale's best for winter. I have one
MAMILLIUS. Ay, my good lord.
MAMILLIUS. Dwelt by a churchyard- I will tell it softly;
MAMILLIUS. I am like you, they say.
MAMILLIUS. I learn'd it out of women's faces. Pray now,
MAMILLIUS. Merry or sad shall't be?
MAMILLIUS. Nay, that's a mock. I have seen a lady's nose
MAMILLIUS. No, I'll none of you.
MAMILLIUS. No, my lord, I'll fight.
MAMILLIUS. Not for because
MAMILLIUS. There was a man-
MAMILLIUS. Yes, if you will, my lord.
MAMILLIUS. You'll kiss me hard, and speak to me as if
MARGARELON. A bastard son of Priam's.
MARGARELON. The devil take thee, coward!                       Exit
MARGARELON. Turn, slave, and fight.
MARIA, Olivia's waiting woman
MARIA. A dry jest, sir.
MARIA. A good lenten answer. I can tell thee where that saying was
MARIA. And you too, sir.
MARIA. Ass, I doubt not.
MARIA. Ay, but he'll have but a year in all these ducats; he's a
MARIA. Ay, but you must confine yourself within the modest limits
MARIA. Ay, he.
MARIA. Ay, sir, I have them at my fingers' ends; marry, now I let
MARIA. By my troth, Sir Toby, you must come in earlier o' nights;
MARIA. Fare you well, gentlemen.
MARIA. For the love o' God, peace!
MARIA. Get him to say his prayers, good Sir Toby, get him to pray.
MARIA. Get ye all three into the box-tree. Malvolio's coming down
MARIA. Go shake your ears.
MARIA. He hath indeed, almost natural; for, besides that he's a
MARIA. He's coming, madam; but in very strange manner.
MARIA. How do you, Malvolio?
MARIA. I know not, madam; 'tis a fair young man, and well attended.
MARIA. I will drop in his way some obscure epistles of love;
MARIA. If you desire the spleen, and will laugh yourselves into
MARIA. In the wars; and that may you be bold to say in your
MARIA. It's dry, sir.
MARIA. La you, an you speak ill of the devil, how he takes it at
MARIA. Lo, how hollow the fiend speaks within him! Did not I tell
MARIA. Madam, there is at the gate a young gentleman much desires
MARIA. Make that good.
MARIA. Marry, and it shall be done to-morrow morning, if I live. My
MARIA. Marry, sir, sometimes he is a kind of Puritan.
MARIA. Most villainously; like a pedant that keeps a school i' th'
MARIA. My name is Mary, sir.
MARIA. My purpose is, indeed, a horse of that colour.
MARIA. Nay, I prithee, put on this gown and this beard; make him
MARIA. Nay, but say true; does it work upon him?
MARIA. Nay, either tell me where thou hast been, or I will not open
MARIA. Nay, good Sir Toby.
MARIA. Nay, pursue him now, lest the device take air and taint.
MARIA. No, I warrant you, he will not hear of godliness.
MARIA. No, madam, he does nothing but smile. Your ladyship were
MARIA. Now, sir, thought is free. I pray you, bring your hand to
MARIA. O Lord!
MARIA. Peace, you rogue, no more o' that. Here comes my lady. Make
MARIA. Sir Toby, madam, your kinsman.
MARIA. Sir, I have not you by th' hand.
MARIA. Sport royal, I warrant you. I know my physic will work with
MARIA. Sweet Sir Toby, be patient for to-night; since the youth of
MARIA. That if one break, the other will hold; or if both break,
MARIA. That quaffing and drinking will undo you; I heard my lady
MARIA. The devil a Puritan that he is, or anything constantly but a
MARIA. The house will be the quieter.
MARIA. They that add, moreover, he's drunk nightly in your company.
MARIA. Thou mightst have done this without thy beard and gown: he
MARIA. What a caterwauling do you keep here! If my lady have not
MARIA. What's that to th' purpose?
MARIA. Why appear you with this ridiculous boldness before my lady?
MARIA. Will you hoist sail, sir? Here lies your way.
MARIA. Yet you will be hang'd for being so long absent; or to be
MARIA. You are resolute, then?
MARIA. You may have very fit occasion for't; he is now in some
MENELAUS. Good night, my lord.
MENELAUS. Let me confirm my princely brother's greeting.
MENELAUS. Name her not now, sir; she's a deadly theme.
MOPSA,   shepherdess
MUSICIANS
MYRMIDON. The Troyan trumpets sound the like, my lord.
NESTOR. Go, bear Patroclus' body to Achilles,
NESTOR. Ha!
NESTOR. I have, thou gallant Troyan, seen thee oft,
NESTOR. I would my arms could match thee in contention
NESTOR. Peace, drums!
NESTOR. So, so, we draw together.                              Exit
OLD SHEPHERD, reputed father of Perdita
OLIVIA, a rich countess
OLIVIA. 'Cross-garter'd?'
OLIVIA. 'Thy yellow stockings?'
OLIVIA. 'Tis in grain, sir; 'twill endure wind and weather.
OLIVIA. 'What is your parentage?'
OLIVIA. A comfortable doctrine, and much may be said of it.
OLIVIA. A gentleman! What gentleman?
OLIVIA. A sister! You are she.
OLIVIA. Alas, Malvolio, this is not my writing,
OLIVIA. Alas, it is the baseness of thy fear
OLIVIA. Alas, poor fool, how have they baffl'd thee!
OLIVIA. Am I made?
OLIVIA. Are you a comedian?
OLIVIA. Away with him. Who hath made this havoc with them?
OLIVIA. Ay me, detested! How am I beguil'd!
OLIVIA. Ay, husband; can he that deny?
OLIVIA. Ay, marry; what is he?
OLIVIA. Ay, my lord, this same.
OLIVIA. Blame not this haste of mine. If you mean well,
OLIVIA. By mine honour, half drunk! What is he at the gate, cousin?
OLIVIA. Can you do it?
OLIVIA. Come to what is important in't. I forgive you the praise.
OLIVIA. Cousin, cousin, how have you come so early by this
OLIVIA. Did he write this?
OLIVIA. Even what it please my lord, that shall become him.
OLIVIA. Fetch him off, I pray you; he speaks nothing but madman.
OLIVIA. For him, I think not on him; for his thoughts,
OLIVIA. From the Count Orsino, is it?
OLIVIA. Get him to bed, and let his hurt be look'd to.
OLIVIA. Get you to your lord.
OLIVIA. Give me leave, beseech you. I did send,
OLIVIA. Give me my veil; come, throw it o'er my face;
OLIVIA. Give us the place alone; we will hear this divinity.
OLIVIA. Go call him hither.                         Exit MARIA
OLIVIA. Go thou and seek the crowner, and let him sit o' my coz;
OLIVIA. Go to, y'are a dry fool; I'll no more of you. Besides, you
OLIVIA. God comfort thee! Why dost thou smile so, and kiss thy hand
OLIVIA. Good fool, for my brother's death.
OLIVIA. Ha?
OLIVIA. Hast thou forgot thyself? Is it so long?
OLIVIA. Have I, Malvolio? No.
OLIVIA. Have you any commission from your lord to negotiate with my
OLIVIA. He hath been most notoriously abus'd.
OLIVIA. He shall enlarge him. Fetch Malvolio hither;
OLIVIA. Heaven restore thee!
OLIVIA. Here, wear this jewel for me; 'tis my picture.
OLIVIA. Hold, Toby; on thy life, I charge thee hold.
OLIVIA. How does he love me?
OLIVIA. How now! Art thou mad?
OLIVIA. How say you to that, Malvolio?
OLIVIA. How with mine honour may I give him that
OLIVIA. I do I know not what, and fear to find
OLIVIA. I have said too much unto a heart of stone,
OLIVIA. I have sent after him; he says he'll come.
OLIVIA. I know his soul is in heaven, fool.
OLIVIA. I would you were as I would have you be!
OLIVIA. I'll come to him. [Exit SERVANT] Good Maria, let this
OLIVIA. If I do not usurp myself, I am.
OLIVIA. If I think so, I think the same of you.
OLIVIA. If it be aught to the old tune, my lord,
OLIVIA. In his bosom! In what chapter of his bosom?
OLIVIA. It is the more like to be feigned; I pray you keep it in. I
OLIVIA. Let him approach. Call in my gentlewoman.
OLIVIA. Let the garden door be shut, and leave me to my hearing.
OLIVIA. Make your proof.
OLIVIA. Most wonderful!
OLIVIA. My servant, sir! 'Twas never merry world
OLIVIA. Nay, come, I prithee. Would thou'dst be rul'd by me!
OLIVIA. O, I have read it; it is heresy. Have you no more to say?
OLIVIA. O, by your leave, I pray you:
OLIVIA. O, do not swear!
OLIVIA. O, say so, and so be!                           Exeunt
OLIVIA. O, sir, I will not be so hard-hearted; I will give out
OLIVIA. O, what a deal of scorn looks beautiful
OLIVIA. O, you are sick of self-love, Malvolio, and taste with a
OLIVIA. Of what personage and years is he?
OLIVIA. Open't, and read it.
OLIVIA. Prithee read i' thy right wits.
OLIVIA. Run after that same peevish messenger,
OLIVIA. See him deliver'd, Fabian; bring him hither.
OLIVIA. Sir, I bade them take away you.
OLIVIA. Smil'st thou?
OLIVIA. Speak to me; I shall answer for her. Your will?
OLIVIA. Stay.
OLIVIA. Still so constant, lord.
OLIVIA. Sure, you have some hideous matter to deliver, when the
OLIVIA. Take the fool away.
OLIVIA. Tell him he shall not speak with me.
OLIVIA. Tell me your mind.
OLIVIA. That's a degree to love.
OLIVIA. Then lead the way, good father; and heavens so shine
OLIVIA. Well, come again to-morrow. Fare thee well;
OLIVIA. Well, sir, for want of other idleness, I'll bide your
OLIVIA. What do you say, Cesario? Good my lord-
OLIVIA. What is your name?
OLIVIA. What kind o' man is he?
OLIVIA. What manner of man?
OLIVIA. What mean'st thou by that, Malvolio?
OLIVIA. What say'st thou?
OLIVIA. What think you of this fool, Malvolio? Doth he not mend?
OLIVIA. What would my lord, but that he may not have,
OLIVIA. What's a drunken man like, fool?
OLIVIA. What's the matter?
OLIVIA. Whence came you, sir?
OLIVIA. Where goes Cesario?
OLIVIA. Whither, my lord? Cesario, husband, stay.
OLIVIA. Who has done this, Sir Andrew?
OLIVIA. Who of my people hold him in delay?
OLIVIA. Why, how dost thou, man? What is the matter with thee?
OLIVIA. Why, then, methinks 'tis time to smile again.
OLIVIA. Why, this is very midsummer madness.
OLIVIA. Why, what would you?
OLIVIA. Why, what's the matter? Does he rave?
OLIVIA. Will it be ever thus? Ungracious wretch,
OLIVIA. Wilt thou go to bed, Malvolio?
OLIVIA. Yet come again; for thou perhaps mayst move
OLIVIA. Yet you began rudely. What are you? What would you?
OLIVIA. You might do much.
OLIVIA. Your lord does know my mind; I cannot love him.
OLIVIA. [To FABIAN] Read it you, sirrah.
ORSINO, Duke of Illyria
OUTLAW. A prize, a prize, a prize!
OUTLAWS, with Valentine
Other Lords, Gentlemen, Ladies, Officers, Servants, Shepherds,
PANDARUS. A goodly medicine for my aching bones! world! world! thus
PANDARUS. A whoreson tisick, a whoreson rascally tisick so troubles
PANDARUS. But hear you, hear you!
PANDARUS. Do you hear, my lord? Do you hear?
PANDARUS. Here's a letter come from yond poor girl.
PANTHINO, servant to Antonio
PANTHINO. 'Twas of his nephew Proteus, your son.
PANTHINO. 'Twere good, I think, your lordship sent him thither:
PANTHINO. Come, come away, man; I was sent to call thee.
PANTHINO. He wond'red that your lordship
PANTHINO. I think your lordship is not ignorant
PANTHINO. In thy tail!
PANTHINO. Launce, away, away, aboard! Thy master is shipp'd, and
PANTHINO. Sir Proteus, you are stay'd for.
PANTHINO. Sir Proteus, your father calls for you;
PANTHINO. To-morrow, may it please you, Don Alphonso
PANTHINO. Tut, man, I mean thou'lt lose the flood, and, in losing
PANTHINO. What's the unkindest tide?
PANTHINO. Where should I lose my tongue?
PANTHINO. Will thou go?
PATROCLUS. Here comes Thersites.
PATROCLUS. Male varlet, you rogue! What's that?
PATROCLUS. Out, gall!
PATROCLUS. Well said, Adversity! and what needs these tricks?
PATROCLUS. Who keeps the tent now?
PATROCLUS. Why, no, you ruinous butt; you whoreson
PATROCLUS. Why, thou damnable box of envy, thou, what meanest thou
PAULINA, wife to Antigonus
PAULINA. A boy?
PAULINA. Here's ado, to lock up honesty and honour from
PAULINA. I dare be sworn.
PAULINA. I pray now, call her.
PAULINA. Pray you, then,
PAULINA. The keeper of the prison- call to him;
PAULINA. Well, be't so, prithee.                   Exit GAOLER
PERDITA, daughter to Leontes and Hermione
POLIXENES, King of Bohemia
POLIXENES. A sickness caught of me, and yet I well?
POLIXENES. By whom, Camillo?
POLIXENES. For what?
POLIXENES. How should this grow?
POLIXENES. How! caught of me?
POLIXENES. How, dare not! Do not. Do you know, and dare not
POLIXENES. How, my lord!
POLIXENES. I do believe thee:
POLIXENES. I may not, verily.
POLIXENES. If at home, sir,
POLIXENES. Nine changes of the wat'ry star hath been
POLIXENES. No longer stay.
POLIXENES. No, madam.
POLIXENES. O my most sacred lady,
POLIXENES. O, then my best blood turn
POLIXENES. On, good Camillo.
POLIXENES. Press me not, beseech you, so.
POLIXENES. Sir, that's to-morrow.
POLIXENES. The King hath on him such a countenance
POLIXENES. This is strange. Methinks
POLIXENES. Very sooth, to-morrow.
POLIXENES. We were as twinn'd lambs that did frisk i' th' sun
POLIXENES. We were, fair Queen,
POLIXENES. What is the news i' th' court?
POLIXENES. What means Sicilia?
POLIXENES. Your guest, then, madam:
PRIAM. Ay, but thou shalt not go.
PRIAM. Come, Hector, come, go back.
PRIAM. Farewell. The gods with safety stand about thee!
PRIEST. A contract of eternal bond of love,
PROTEUS,    "  "   "   "     "
PROTEUS. 'Tis love you cavil at; I am not Love.
PROTEUS. A little time, my lord, will kill that grief.
PROTEUS. A silly answer, and fitting well a sheep.
PROTEUS. Adieu, my lord; Sir Valentine is coming.         Exit
PROTEUS. All happiness bechance to thee in Milan!
PROTEUS. Already have I been false to Valentine,
PROTEUS. And I will follow, more for Silvia's love
PROTEUS. And that set together is 'noddy.'
PROTEUS. And that, my lord, I shall be loath to do:
PROTEUS. And thither will I bring thee, Valentine.
PROTEUS. And what says she to my little jewel?
PROTEUS. As much as I can do I will effect.
PROTEUS. As one relying on your lordship's will,
PROTEUS. As wretches have o'ernight
PROTEUS. At Saint Gregory's well.
PROTEUS. Ay, Silvia- for your sake.
PROTEUS. Ay, ay; and she hath offered to the doom-
PROTEUS. Ay, gentle Thurio; for you know that love
PROTEUS. Ay, if his enemy deliver it;
PROTEUS. Bear witness, heaven, I have my wish for ever.
PROTEUS. Beshrew me, but you have a quick wit.
PROTEUS. But dost thou hear? Gav'st thou my letter to Julia?
PROTEUS. But how cam'st thou by this ring?
PROTEUS. But now he parted hence to embark for Milan.
PROTEUS. But pearls are fair; and the old saying is:
PROTEUS. But she loves you?
PROTEUS. But she receiv'd my dog?
PROTEUS. But what said she?
PROTEUS. Cease to lament for that thou canst not help,
PROTEUS. Come, come, open the matter; in brief, what said she?
PROTEUS. Enough; I read your fortune in your eye.
PROTEUS. Except my mistress.
PROTEUS. Go on before; I shall enquire you forth;
PROTEUS. Go, get thee hence and find my dog again,
PROTEUS. Go, go, be gone, to save your ship from wreck,
PROTEUS. Go, sirrah, find him out. Come, Valentine.
PROTEUS. Go; I come, I come.
PROTEUS. Gone, my good lord.
PROTEUS. Have I not reason to prefer mine own?
PROTEUS. Have patience, gentle Julia.
PROTEUS. He after honour hunts, I after love;
PROTEUS. Here is my hand for my true constancy;
PROTEUS. Here's too small a pasture for such store of muttons.
PROTEUS. How! Julia!
PROTEUS. How! let me see. Why, this is the ring I gave to Julia.
PROTEUS. I do, my lord.
PROTEUS. I do.
PROTEUS. I grant, sweet love, that I did love a lady;
PROTEUS. I left them all in health.
PROTEUS. I likewise hear that Valentine is dead.
PROTEUS. I will not flatter her.
PROTEUS. I will.                                Exit VALENTINE
PROTEUS. I'll die on him that says so but yourself.
PROTEUS. I'll force thee yield to my desire.
PROTEUS. Ill, when you talk of war.
PROTEUS. In love,
PROTEUS. Indeed a sheep doth very often stray,
PROTEUS. It shall go hard but I'll prove it by another.
PROTEUS. Know, noble lord, they have devis'd a mean
PROTEUS. Longer than I prove loyal to your Grace
PROTEUS. Look to the boy.
PROTEUS. Madam, good ev'n to your ladyship.
PROTEUS. Madam, if your heart be so obdurate,
PROTEUS. Madam, this service I have done for you,
PROTEUS. May't please your lordship, 'tis a word or two
PROTEUS. My duty will I boast of, nothing else.
PROTEUS. My gracious lord, that which I would discover
PROTEUS. My lord, I cannot be so soon provided;
PROTEUS. My shame and guilt confounds me.
PROTEUS. My tales of love were wont to weary you;
PROTEUS. Nay, if the gentle spirit of moving words
PROTEUS. Nay, in that you are astray: 'twere best pound you.
PROTEUS. Neither.
PROTEUS. No, Valentine.
PROTEUS. No, Valentine.
PROTEUS. No, no; you shall have it for bearing the letter.
PROTEUS. No; but she is an earthly paragon.
PROTEUS. No; that it is too little.
PROTEUS. Nod- ay. Why, that's 'noddy.'
PROTEUS. Nor I.
PROTEUS. Not so, sweet lady; but too mean a servant
PROTEUS. Not so; I think she lives.
PROTEUS. O, ay; and pities them.
PROTEUS. O, sir, I find her milder than she was;
PROTEUS. O, sir, she makes no doubt of that.
PROTEUS. One, lady, if you knew his pure heart's truth,
PROTEUS. Over the boots! Nay, give me not the boots.
PROTEUS. Run, boy, run, run, seek him out.
PROTEUS. Say that upon the altar of her beauty
PROTEUS. Sebastian is thy name? I like thee well,
PROTEUS. She did, my lord, when Valentine was here.
PROTEUS. She says it is a fair one.
PROTEUS. Sir Proteus, gentle lady, and your servant.
PROTEUS. Sir Thurio, fear not you; I will so plead
PROTEUS. Sir, but I do; or else I would be hence.
PROTEUS. Sirrah, I say, forbear. Friend Valentine, a word.
PROTEUS. So, by your circumstance, you call me fool.
PROTEUS. Sweet lady, let me rake it from the earth.
PROTEUS. Sweet love! sweet lines! sweet life!
PROTEUS. Than men their minds! 'tis true. O heaven, were man
PROTEUS. That I may compass yours.
PROTEUS. That they are out by lease.
PROTEUS. That thou art banished- O, that's the news!-
PROTEUS. That you are well deriv'd.
PROTEUS. That you are worthless.
PROTEUS. That's a deep story of a deeper love;
PROTEUS. The best way is to slander Valentine
PROTEUS. The sheep for fodder follow the shepherd; the shepherd for
PROTEUS. Then in dumb silence will I bury mine,
PROTEUS. Then let her alone.
PROTEUS. There is no news, my lord; but that he writes
PROTEUS. Thus have I shunn'd the fire for fear of burning,
PROTEUS. To leave my Julia, shall I be forsworn;
PROTEUS. True; and thy master a shepherd.
PROTEUS. Unhappy were you, madam, ere I came;
PROTEUS. Upon some book I love I'll pray for thee.
PROTEUS. Valentine!
PROTEUS. Valentine?
PROTEUS. Villain, forbear.
PROTEUS. We'll both attend upon your ladyship.
PROTEUS. We'll wait upon your Grace till after supper,
PROTEUS. Well, give her that ring, and therewithal
PROTEUS. Well, sir, here is for your pains. What said she?
PROTEUS. What dangerous action, stood it next to death,
PROTEUS. What said she? Nothing?
PROTEUS. What seest thou?
PROTEUS. What then?
PROTEUS. What, didst thou offer her this from me?
PROTEUS. What?
PROTEUS. When I was sick you gave me bitter pills,
PROTEUS. When possibly I can, I will return.
PROTEUS. Where is that ring, boy?
PROTEUS. Wherefore shouldst thou pity her?
PROTEUS. Who then? his spirit?
PROTEUS. Who wouldst thou strike?
PROTEUS. Why dost thou cry 'Alas'?
PROTEUS. Why, Valentine, what braggardism is this?
PROTEUS. Why, couldst thou perceive so much from her?
PROTEUS. Why, sir, how do you bear with me?
PROTEUS. Why, then, we'll make exchange. Here, take you this.
PROTEUS. Why, this it is: my heart accords thereto;
PROTEUS. Wilt thou be gone? Sweet Valentine, adieu!
PROTEUS. Yet writers say, as in the sweetest bud
PROTEUS. You have prevail'd, my lord; if I can do it
PROTEUS. You mistake; I mean the pound- a pinfold.
PROTEUS. Your friends are well, and have them much commended.
PROTEUS..I hope thou wilt.  [To LAUNCE]  How now, you whoreson
SEBASTIAN, brother of Viola
SEBASTIAN. A lady, sir, though it was said she much resembled me,
SEBASTIAN. A spirit I am indeed,
SEBASTIAN. And so had mine.
SEBASTIAN. Antonio, O my dear Antonio!
SEBASTIAN. Belike you slew great number of his people.
SEBASTIAN. By your patience, no. My stars shine darkly over me; the
SEBASTIAN. Do I stand there? I never had a brother;
SEBASTIAN. Do not then walk too open.
SEBASTIAN. Fear'st thou that, Antonio?
SEBASTIAN. Go to, go to, thou art a foolish fellow; let me be clear
SEBASTIAN. I am not weary, and 'tis long to night;
SEBASTIAN. I am sorry, madam, I have hurt your kinsman;
SEBASTIAN. I do remember.                               Exeunt
SEBASTIAN. I prithee vent thy folly somewhere else.
SEBASTIAN. I prithee, foolish Greek, depart from me;
SEBASTIAN. I will be free from thee. What wouldst thou now?
SEBASTIAN. I would not by my will have troubled you;
SEBASTIAN. I'll be your purse-bearer, and leave you for
SEBASTIAN. I'll follow this good man, and go with you;
SEBASTIAN. If you will not undo what you have done- that is, kill
SEBASTIAN. Let go thy hand.
SEBASTIAN. Madam, I will.
SEBASTIAN. My kind Antonio,
SEBASTIAN. No, sooth, sir; my determinate voyage is mere
SEBASTIAN. O good Antonio, forgive me your trouble.
SEBASTIAN. O, that record is lively in my soul!
SEBASTIAN. This is the air; that is the glorious sun;
SEBASTIAN. What relish is in this? How runs the stream?
SEBASTIAN. Why I your purse?
SEBASTIAN. Why, there's for thee, and there, and there.
SEBASTIAN. [To OLIVIA] So Comes it, lady, you have been mistook;
SECOND LADY. And why so, my lord?
SECOND LADY. She is spread of late
SECOND LADY. Who taught't this?
SECOND OFFICER. Antonio, I arrest thee at the suit
SECOND OFFICER. Come, sir, I pray you go.
SECOND OFFICER. Come, sir, away.
SECOND OUTLAW. And I from Mantua, for a gentleman
SECOND OUTLAW. Being nimble-footed, he hath outrun us,
SECOND OUTLAW. Come, bring her away.
SECOND OUTLAW. For what offence?
SECOND OUTLAW. Have you the tongues?
SECOND OUTLAW. If there be ten, shrink not, but down with 'em.
SECOND OUTLAW. Indeed, because you are a banish'd man,
SECOND OUTLAW. Peace! we'll hear him.
SECOND OUTLAW. Tell us this: have you anything to take to?
SECOND OUTLAW. Thou shalt not live to brag what we have offer'd.
SECOND OUTLAW. Whither travel you?
SERVANT. I go, my lord.                                        Exit
SERVANT. Madam, the young gentleman of the Count Orsino's is
SERVANTS
SILVIA, the Duke's daughter, beloved of Valentine
SILVIA. A fine volley of words, gentlemen, and quickly shot off.
SILVIA. A pretty period! Well, I guess the sequel;
SILVIA. A thousand more mischances than this one
SILVIA. All men but Proteus.
SILVIA. Amen, amen! Go on, good Eglamour,
SILVIA. And duty never yet did want his meed.
SILVIA. And so suppose am I; for in his grave
SILVIA. And when it's writ, for my sake read it over;
SILVIA. At Friar Patrick's cell,
SILVIA. Ay, ay, you writ them, sir, at my request;
SILVIA. Belike she thinks that Proteus hath forsook her.
SILVIA. Belike that now she hath enfranchis'd them
SILVIA. By thy approach thou mak'st me most unhappy.
SILVIA. Dost thou know her?
SILVIA. From whom?
SILVIA. Go to thy lady's grave, and call hers thence;
SILVIA. Good morrow, kind Sir Eglamour.                 Exeunt
SILVIA. Had I been seized by a hungry lion,
SILVIA. Have done, have done; here comes the gentleman.
SILVIA. His worth is warrant for his welcome hither,
SILVIA. How tall was she?
SILVIA. I am very loath to be your idol, sir;
SILVIA. I pray thee let me look on that again.
SILVIA. I thank you for your music, gentlemen.
SILVIA. I thank you, gentle servant. 'Tis very clerkly done.
SILVIA. I wait upon his pleasure. Come, Sir Thurio,
SILVIA. Is she not passing fair?
SILVIA. Nay, then, he should be blind; and, being blind,
SILVIA. No more, gentlemen, no more. Here comes my father.
SILVIA. O Eglamour, thou art a gentleman-
SILVIA. O Valentine, this I endure for thee!            Exeunt
SILVIA. O heaven!
SILVIA. O miserable, unhappy that I am!
SILVIA. O, he sends you for a picture?
SILVIA. Perchance you think too much of so much pains?
SILVIA. Say that she be; yet Valentine, thy friend,
SILVIA. Servant!
SILVIA. Servant, you are sad.
SILVIA. She is beholding to thee, gentle youth.
SILVIA. Sir Eglamour, a thousand times good morrow!
SILVIA. Sir Proteus, as I take it.
SILVIA. Sir Valentine and servant, to you two thousand.
SILVIA. That you are welcome?
SILVIA. The more shame for him that he sends it me;
SILVIA. There, hold!
SILVIA. This evening coming.
SILVIA. Too low a mistress for so high a servant.
SILVIA. Ursula, bring my picture there.
SILVIA. What say'st thou?
SILVIA. What would you with her, if that I be she?
SILVIA. What's your will?
SILVIA. What, angry, Sir Thurio! Do you change colour?
SILVIA. When Proteus cannot love where he's belov'd!
SILVIA. Who calls?
SILVIA. Who is that, servant?
SILVIA. Why, if it please you, take it for your labour.
SILVIA. Yes, yes; the lines are very quaintly writ;
SILVIA. You have your wish; my will is even this,
SIR ANDREW AGUECHEEK
SIR TOBY BELCH, uncle of Olivia
SIR TOBY. 'Thou kill'st me like a rogue and a villain.'
SIR TOBY. 'Tis a gentleman here. [Hiccups] A plague o' these
SIR TOBY. A contagious breath.
SIR TOBY. A false conclusion! I hate it as an unfill'd can. To be
SIR TOBY. A gentleman.
SIR TOBY. A love-song, a love-song.
SIR TOBY. A very dishonest paltry boy, and more a coward than a
SIR TOBY. Accost, Sir Andrew, accost.
SIR TOBY. Ah, rogue!
SIR TOBY. An thou let part so, Sir Andrew, would thou mightst never
SIR TOBY. And I can cut the mutton to't.
SIR TOBY. And ask no other dowry with her but such another jest.
SIR TOBY. And cross-garter'd?
SIR TOBY. And does not Toby take you a blow o' the lips then?
SIR TOBY. And they have been grand-jurymen since before Noah was a
SIR TOBY. And with what wing the staniel checks at it!
SIR TOBY. Approach, Sir Andrew. Not to be abed after midnight is to
SIR TOBY. Art thou good at these kickshawses, knight?
SIR TOBY. Ay, Biddy, come with me. What, man, 'tis not for gravity
SIR TOBY. Ay, but he will not now be pacified; Fabian can scarce
SIR TOBY. Ay, or I'll cudgel him, and make him cry 'O!'
SIR TOBY. Bolts and shackles!
SIR TOBY. By this hand, they are scoundrels and subtractors that
SIR TOBY. Come hither, knight; come hither, Fabian; we'll whisper
SIR TOBY. Come on, sir; hold.
SIR TOBY. Come on, there is sixpence for you. Let's have a song.
SIR TOBY. Come thy ways, Signior Fabian.
SIR TOBY. Come, Sir Andrew, there's no remedy; the gentleman will,
SIR TOBY. Come, bring us, bring us where he is.         Exeunt
SIR TOBY. Come, come, I'll go burn some sack; 'tis too late to go
SIR TOBY. Come, sir, I will not let you go. Come, my young soldier,
SIR TOBY. Come, we'll have him in a dark room and bound. My niece
SIR TOBY. Confine! I'll confine myself no finer than I am. These
SIR TOBY. Did she see thee the while, old boy? Tell me that.
SIR TOBY. Do't, knight. I'll write thee a challenge; or I'll
SIR TOBY. Do; cuff him soundly, but never draw thy sword.
SIR TOBY. Excellent wench, say I.
SIR TOBY. Excellent! I smell a device.
SIR TOBY. Excellent; it hangs like flax on a distaff, and I hope to
SIR TOBY. Fie that you'll say so! He plays o' th' viol-de-gamboys,
SIR TOBY. Fire and brimstone!
SIR TOBY. Gentleman, God save thee.
SIR TOBY. Give me. [Reads] 'Youth, whatsoever thou art, thou art
SIR TOBY. Go to, go to; peace, peace; we must deal gently with him.
SIR TOBY. Go, Sir Andrew; scout me for him at the corner of the
SIR TOBY. Go, write it in a martial hand; be curst and brief; it is
SIR TOBY. Good night, Penthesilea.
SIR TOBY. Good, good!
SIR TOBY. He is knight, dubb'd with unhatch'd rapier and on carpet
SIR TOBY. He shall think, by the letters that thou wilt drop, that
SIR TOBY. He's as tall a man as any's in Illyria.
SIR TOBY. Here comes the little villain.
SIR TOBY. Here's an overweening rogue!
SIR TOBY. His very genius hath taken the infection of the device,
SIR TOBY. Hold, sir, or I'll throw your dagger o'er the house.
SIR TOBY. How is't with you, man?
SIR TOBY. I Will do so. Signior Fabian, stay you by this gentleman
SIR TOBY. I could marry this wench for this device.
SIR TOBY. I dare lay any money 'twill be nothing yet.
SIR TOBY. I have been dear to him, lad- some two thousand strong,
SIR TOBY. I mean, to go, sir, to enter.
SIR TOBY. I will meditate the while upon some horrid message for a
SIR TOBY. I'll make the motion. Stand here, make a good show on't;
SIR TOBY. Is't possible?
SIR TOBY. Jove bless thee, Master Parson.
SIR TOBY. Lechery! I defy lechery. There's one at the gate.
SIR TOBY. Let him be the devil an he will, I care not; give me
SIR TOBY. Let's to bed, knight. Thou hadst need send for more
SIR TOBY. Like aqua-vita! with a midwife.
SIR TOBY. Look where the youngest wren of nine comes.
SIR TOBY. Madam!
SIR TOBY. Marry, hang thee, brock!
SIR TOBY. My lady's a Cataian, we are politicians, Malvolio's a
SIR TOBY. My most exquisite Sir Topas!
SIR TOBY. My niece's chambermaid.
SIR TOBY. Nay, if you be an undertaker, I am for you.
SIR TOBY. Never trust me then; and by all means stir on the youth
SIR TOBY. No question.
SIR TOBY. No, sir; it is legs and thighs. Let me see the caper. Ha,
SIR TOBY. Now will not I deliver his letter; for the behaviour of
SIR TOBY. O knight, thou lack'st a cup of canary! When did I see
SIR TOBY. O, ay, make up that! He is now at a cold scent.
SIR TOBY. O, for a stone-bow to hit him in the eye!
SIR TOBY. O, peace! And the spirit of humours intimate reading
SIR TOBY. Out, scab!
SIR TOBY. Past question; for thou seest it will not curl by nature.
SIR TOBY. Peace, I say.
SIR TOBY. Peace, peace!
SIR TOBY. Possess us, possess us; tell us something of him.
SIR TOBY. Pourquoi, my dear knight?
SIR TOBY. Prithee hold thy peace; this is not the way. Do you not
SIR TOBY. Save you, gentleman!
SIR TOBY. Send for money, knight; if thou hast her not i' th' end,
SIR TOBY. Shall I play my freedom at tray-trip, and become thy
SIR TOBY. Shall this fellow live?
SIR TOBY. She'll none o' th' Count; she'll not match above her
SIR TOBY. She's a beagle true-bred, and one that adores me.
SIR TOBY. Sir, no; his indignation derives itself out of a very
SIR TOBY. Sweet Sir Andrew!
SIR TOBY. Taste your legs, sir; put them to motion.
SIR TOBY. Th'art a scholar; let us therefore eat and drink.
SIR TOBY. That defence thou hast, betake thee tot. Of what nature
SIR TOBY. That's all one; has hurt me, and there's th' end on't.
SIR TOBY. The knave counterfeits well; a good knave.
SIR TOBY. Then hadst thou had an excellent head of hair.
SIR TOBY. Then he's a rogue and a passy measures pavin. I hate a
SIR TOBY. Thy reason, dear venom, give thy reason.
SIR TOBY. To anger him we'll have the bear again; and we will fool
SIR TOBY. To hear by the nose, it is dulcet in contagion. But shall
SIR TOBY. To him in thine own voice, and bring me word how thou
SIR TOBY. To him, Sir Topas.
SIR TOBY. To the gates of Tartar, thou most excellent devil of wit!
SIR TOBY. We did keep time, sir, in our catches. Sneck up!
SIR TOBY. We'll call thee at the cubiculo. Go.
SIR TOBY. Welcome, ass. Now let's have a catch.
SIR TOBY. Well said, Master Parson.
SIR TOBY. What a plague means my niece to take the death of her
SIR TOBY. What is thy excellence in a galliard, knight?
SIR TOBY. What shall we do else? Were we not born under Taurus?
SIR TOBY. What wilt thou do?
SIR TOBY. What, for being a Puritan? Thy exquisite reason, dear
SIR TOBY. What, what?
SIR TOBY. What, what? Nay, then I must have an ounce or two of this
SIR TOBY. Wherefore are these things hid? Wherefore have these
SIR TOBY. Which way is he, in the name of sanctity? If all the
SIR TOBY. Who? Sir Andrew Aguecheek?
SIR TOBY. Why, he has three thousand ducats a year.
SIR TOBY. Why, how now, my bawcock!
SIR TOBY. Why, let her except before excepted.
SIR TOBY. Why, man, he's a very devil; I have not seen such a
SIR TOBY. Why, then, build me thy fortunes upon the basis of
SIR TOBY. Why, thou hast put him in such a dream that when the
SIR TOBY. Will you encounter the house? My niece is desirous you
SIR TOBY. Will you help- an ass-head and a coxcomb and a knave, a
SIR TOBY. Wilt thou set thy foot o' my neck?
SIR TOBY. With drinking healths to my niece; I'll drink to her as
SIR TOBY. Wouldst thou not be glad to have the niggardly rascally
SIR TOBY. You'll find it otherwise, I assure you; therefore, if you
SIR TOBY. You, sir! Why, what are you?
SIR TOBY. [Reads] 'Fare thee well; and God have mercy upon one of
SIR TOBY. [Reads] 'I will waylay thee going home; where if it be
SIR TOBY. [Reads] 'Thou com'st to the Lady Olivia, and in my sight
SIR TOBY. [Reads] 'Wonder not, nor admire not in thy mind, why I do
SIR TOBY. [Rising] Out o' tune, sir! Ye lie. Art any more than a
SIR TOBY. [Sings] But I will never die.           [Falls down]
SIR TOBY. [Sings] Farewell, dear heart, since I must needs be gone.
SIR TOBY. [Sings] O' the twelfth day of December-
SIR TOBY. [Sings] Shall I bid him go, and spare not?
SIR TOBY. [Sings] Shall I bid him go?
SIR TOBY. [To ANTONIO] I'll be with you anon.
SIR TOBY. [To VIOLA] There's no remedy, sir: he will fight with you
SIR Toby. You mistake, knight. 'Accost' is front her, board her,
SOLDIERS. [Within] Achilles! Achilles! Hector's slain. Achilles!
SPEED, a clownish servant to Valentine
SPEED.  [Aside]  And yet you will; and yet another' yet.'
SPEED.  [Aside]  He should give her interest, and she gives it him.
SPEED.  [Aside]  O excellent motion! O exceeding puppet!
SPEED.  [Aside]  O, give ye good ev'n!
SPEED.  [Calling]  Madam Silvia! Madam Silvia!
SPEED.  [Nodding]  Ay.
SPEED.  [Reads]  'Inprimis: She can milk.'
SPEED. 'And more faults than hairs'-
SPEED. 'And more wealth than faults.'
SPEED. 'Here follow her vices.'
SPEED. 'Item: She brews good ale.'
SPEED. 'Item: She can knit.'
SPEED. 'Item: She can sew.'
SPEED. 'Item: She can spin.'
SPEED. 'Item: She can wash and scour.'
SPEED. 'Item: She doth talk in her sleep.'
SPEED. 'Item: She hath a sweet mouth.'
SPEED. 'Item: She hath many nameless virtues.'
SPEED. 'Item: She hath more hair than wit'-
SPEED. 'Item: She hath more hair than wit, and more faults
SPEED. 'Item: She hath no teeth.'
SPEED. 'Item: She is curst.'
SPEED. 'Item: She is not to be kiss'd fasting, in respect of her
SPEED. 'Item: She is proud.'
SPEED. 'Item: She is slow in words.'
SPEED. 'Item: She is too liberal.'
SPEED. 'Item: She will often praise her liquor.'
SPEED. 'Tis well that I get it so. But, Launce, how say'st thou
SPEED. 'Twere good you knock'd him.                       Exit
SPEED. And have you?
SPEED. And must I go to him?
SPEED. And that letter hath she deliver'd, and there an end.
SPEED. And yet I was last chidden for being too slow.
SPEED. And yet it cannot overtake your slow purse.
SPEED. Are they not lamely writ?
SPEED. At thy service.                                  Exeunt
SPEED. Ay, but hearken, sir; though the chameleon Love can feed on
SPEED. Ay, sir; I, a lost mutton, gave your letter to her, a lac'd
SPEED. Because Love is blind. O that you had mine eyes; or your own
SPEED. But shall she marry him?
SPEED. But tell me true, will't be a match?
SPEED. By a letter, I should say.
SPEED. Come on, you madcap; I'll to the alehouse with you
SPEED. Come, fool, come; try me in thy paper.
SPEED. Ever since you lov'd her.
SPEED. For me?
SPEED. From a pound to a pin? Fold it over and over,
SPEED. How now, Signior Launce! What news with your mastership?
SPEED. How then? Shall he marry her?
SPEED. I tell thee my master is become a hot lover.
SPEED. I would you were set, so your affection would cease.
SPEED. I'll warrant you 'tis as well.
SPEED. If the ground be overcharg'd, you were best stick her.
SPEED. If you love her, you cannot see her.
SPEED. Is she not hard-favour'd, sir?
SPEED. It stands under thee, indeed.
SPEED. Launce! by mine honesty, welcome to Padua.
SPEED. Let me read them.
SPEED. Marry, by these special marks: first, you have learn'd, like
SPEED. Marry, sir, so painted, to make her fair, that no man counts
SPEED. Marry, sir, the letter, very orderly; having nothing but the
SPEED. Marry, the son of my grandfather.
SPEED. Master, Sir Thurio frowns on you.
SPEED. Master, be one of them; it's an honourable kind of thievery.
SPEED. Nay, I was rhyming: 'tis you that have the reason.
SPEED. Nay, sir, less than a pound shall serve me for carrying your
SPEED. Nay, that I can deny by a circumstance.
SPEED. No believing you indeed, sir. But did you perceive her
SPEED. No, not so much as 'Take this for thy pains.' To testify
SPEED. Not of you.
SPEED. Now you have taken the pains to set it together, take it for
SPEED. O jest unseen, inscrutable, invisible,
SPEED. Open your purse, that the money and the matter may be both
SPEED. She is not within hearing, sir.
SPEED. She that you gaze on so, as she sits at supper?
SPEED. She that your worship loves?
SPEED. Sir Proteus, save you! Saw you my master?
SPEED. Sir, I could perceive nothing at all from her; no, not so
SPEED. Sir, I know that well enough.
SPEED. Sir, we are undone; these are the villains
SPEED. Sir, your glove.
SPEED. Such another proof will make me cry 'baa.'
SPEED. Than how?
SPEED. That she is not so fair as, of you, well-favour'd.
SPEED. That's because the one is painted, and the other out of all
SPEED. The conclusion is, then, that it will.
SPEED. The shepherd seeks the sheep, and not the sheep the
SPEED. They are all perceiv'd without ye.
SPEED. This proves me still a sheep.
SPEED. Thou liest; I can.
SPEED. To be a spokesman from Madam Silvia?
SPEED. To yourself; why, she woos you by a figure.
SPEED. True, sir; I was in love with my bed. I thank you, you
SPEED. Truly, sir, I think you'll hardly win her.
SPEED. Twenty to one then he is shipp'd already,
SPEED. Well, I perceive I must be fain to bear with you.
SPEED. Well, your old vice still: mistake the word. What news,
SPEED. What an ass art thou! I understand thee not.
SPEED. What need she, when she hath made you write to yourself?
SPEED. What then?
SPEED. What thou say'st?
SPEED. What, are they broken?
SPEED. Why didst not tell me sooner? Pox of your love letters!
SPEED. Why then, how stands the matter with them?
SPEED. Why then, my horns are his horns, whether I wake or sleep.
SPEED. Why, man? how black?
SPEED. Why, she hath given you a letter.
SPEED. Why, sir, I know her not.
SPEED. Why, then, this may be yours; for this is but one.
SPEED. Why, thou whoreson ass, thou mistak'st me.
SPEED. Why?
SPEED. Without you! Nay, that's certain; for, without you were so
SPEED. You conclude that my master is a shepherd then, and
SPEED. You mistook, sir; I say she did nod; and you ask me if she
SPEED. You never saw her since she was deform'd.
SPEED. Your own present folly and her passing deformity; for he,
SPEED. Your worship, sir; or else I mistook.
THERSITES. A juggling trick, to be secretly open.
THERSITES. A proof of strength she could not publish more,
THERSITES. And any man may sing her, if he can take her cliff;
THERSITES. Do I curse thee?
THERSITES. Finch egg!
THERSITES. God-a-mercy, that thou wilt believe me; but a plague
THERSITES. He'll tickle it for his concupy.
THERSITES. Hold thy whore, Grecian; now for thy whore,
THERSITES. How the devil luxury, with his fat rump and potato
THERSITES. I am a bastard too; I love bastards. I am a bastard
THERSITES. No! Why art thou, then, exasperate, thou idle immaterial
THERSITES. No, no-I am a rascal; a scurvy railing knave; a very
THERSITES. Nor I, by Pluto; but that that likes not you
THERSITES. Now she sharpens. Well said, whetstone.
THERSITES. Now the pledge; now, now, now!
THERSITES. Now they are clapper-clawing one another; I'll go look
THERSITES. Prithee, be silent, boy; I profit not by thy talk; thou
THERSITES. Roguery!
THERSITES. Sweet draught! 'Sweet' quoth 'a?
THERSITES. That same Diomed's a false-hearted rogue, a most unjust
THERSITES. The cuckold and the cuckold-maker are at it. Now, bull!
THERSITES. The surgeon's box or the patient's wound.
THERSITES. What art thou?
THERSITES. Why, his masculine whore. Now, the rotten diseases of
THERSITES. Why, thou full dish of fool, from Troy.
THERSITES. Why, thou picture of what thou seemest, and idol of
THERSITES. Will 'a swagger himself out on's own eyes?
THERSITES. With too much blood and too little brain these two may
THERSITES. Would I could meet that rogue Diomed! I would croak like
THIRD OUTLAW. Ay, by my beard, will we; for he is a proper man.
THIRD OUTLAW. By the bare scalp of Robin Hood's fat friar,
THIRD OUTLAW. Have you long sojourn'd there?
THIRD OUTLAW. Know, then, that some of us are gentlemen,
THIRD OUTLAW. No, we detest such vile base practices.
THIRD OUTLAW. Stand, sir, and throw us that you have about ye;
THIRD OUTLAW. What say'st thou? Wilt thou be of our consort?
THURIO, a foolish rival to Valentine
THURIO. And how quote you my folly?
THURIO. And thy advice this night I'll put in practice;
THURIO. Ay, but I hope, sir, that you love not here.
THURIO. Ay, sir, and done too, for this time.
THURIO. But well when I discourse of love and peace?
THURIO. Considers she my possessions?
THURIO. Farewell.                  Exeunt THURIO and MUSICIANS
THURIO. How likes she my discourse?
THURIO. How now, Sir Proteus, are you crept before us?
THURIO. How?
THURIO. I thank you for your own. Now, gentlemen,
THURIO. I'll wear a boot to make it somewhat rounder.
THURIO. Madam, my lord your father would speak with you.
THURIO. My jerkin is a doublet.
THURIO. Nay, then, the wanton lies; my face is black.
THURIO. Not I.
THURIO. Seem you that you are not?
THURIO. Since his exile she hath despis'd me most,
THURIO. Sir Proteus, what says Silvia to my suit?
THURIO. Sir Valentine, I care not for her, I;
THURIO. Sir, if you spend word for word with me, I shall make your
THURIO. So do counterfeits.
THURIO. That hath more mind to feed on your blood than live in your
THURIO. Therefore, as you unwind her love from him,
THURIO. They say that Love hath not an eye at all.
THURIO. What instance of the contrary?
THURIO. What says she to my birth?
THURIO. What says she to my face?
THURIO. What says she to my valour?
THURIO. What seem I that I am not?
THURIO. What, that my leg is too long?
THURIO. Where meet we?
THURIO. Wherefore?
THURIO. Who? Silvia?
THURIO. Why, this it is to be a peevish girl
THURIO. Yonder is Silvia; and Silvia's mine.
TIME, as Chorus
TROILUS. Accept distracted thanks.
TROILUS. Ajax hath ta'en Aeneas. Shall it be?
TROILUS. Away, away!
TROILUS. Ay, Greek; and that shall be divulged well
TROILUS. Behold, I pray you.
TROILUS. Brother, you have a vice of mercy in you
TROILUS. By Jove, I will be patient.
TROILUS. Come, both, you cogging Greeks; have at you
TROILUS. Cressid comes forth to him.
TROILUS. Doth that grieve thee? O withered truth!
TROILUS. Fear me not, my lord;
TROILUS. Fly not; for shouldst thou take the river Styx
TROILUS. Fool's play, by heaven, Hector.
TROILUS. For th' love of all the gods,
TROILUS. Have with you, Prince. My courteous lord, adieu.
TROILUS. He's dead, and at the murderer's horse's tail,
TROILUS. Hector is slain.
TROILUS. Hector, then 'tis wars.
TROILUS. Hence, broker-lackey. Ignominy and shame
TROILUS. Hold, patience!
TROILUS. I did swear patience.
TROILUS. I pray you, stay; by hell and all hell's torments,
TROILUS. I prithee stay.
TROILUS. I will be patient; outwardly I will.
TROILUS. It is.
TROILUS. Let it not be believ'd for womanhood.
TROILUS. Let me read.
TROILUS. My Lord Ulysses, tell me, I beseech you,
TROILUS. Nay, stay; by Jove, I will not speak a word:
TROILUS. Nothing at all, unless that this were she.
TROILUS. O Cressid! O false Cressid! false, false, false!
TROILUS. O beauty! where is thy faith?
TROILUS. O plague and madness!
TROILUS. O traitor Diomed! Turn thy false face, thou traitor,
TROILUS. O, sir, to such as boasting show their scars
TROILUS. Shall I, sweet lord, be bound to you so much,
TROILUS. She strokes his cheek.
TROILUS. She was not, sure.
TROILUS. Sweet sir, you honour me.
TROILUS. They are at it, hark! Proud Diomed, believe,
TROILUS. This foolish, dreaming, superstitious girl
TROILUS. This she? No; this is Diomed's Cressida.
TROILUS. Thy better must.
TROILUS. To make a recordation to my soul
TROILUS. Wert thou the devil and wor'st it on thy horn,
TROILUS. What now?
TROILUS. What shall she remember?
TROILUS. When many times the captive Grecian falls,
TROILUS. Who should withhold me?
TROILUS. Why, my negation hath no taste of madness.
TROILUS. Words, words, mere words, no matter from the heart;
TROILUS. Yea, so familiar!
TROILUS. You understand me not that tell me so.
ULYSSES. All's done, my lord.
ULYSSES. At Menelaus' tent, most princely Troilus.
ULYSSES. Come, come.
ULYSSES. Here comes himself to guide you.
ULYSSES. How now, Troyan!
ULYSSES. How now, my lord?
ULYSSES. I cannot conjure, Troyan.
ULYSSES. I wonder now how yonder city stands,
ULYSSES. I'll bring you to the gates.
ULYSSES. List!
ULYSSES. May worthy Troilus be half-attach'd
ULYSSES. Most sure she was.
ULYSSES. My lord!
ULYSSES. Nay, good my lord, go off;
ULYSSES. Nor mine, my lord. Cressid was here but now.
ULYSSES. O, contain yourself;
ULYSSES. O, courage, courage, courage, Princes! Great
ULYSSES. She will sing any man at first sight.
ULYSSES. Sir, I foretold you then what would ensue.
ULYSSES. So to him we leave it.
ULYSSES. Stand where the torch may not discover us.
ULYSSES. What hath she done, Prince, that can soil our mothers?
ULYSSES. Why stay we, then?
ULYSSES. You are moved, Prince; let us depart, I pray,
ULYSSES. You have not patience; come.
ULYSSES. You have sworn patience.
ULYSSES. You shake, my lord, at something; will you go?
ULYSSES. You shall command me, sir.
ULYSSES. [Aside to TROILUS] Follow his torch; he goes to
VALENTINE, gentleman attending on the Duke
VALENTINE, one of the two gentlemen
VALENTINE.  [Aside]  How like a dream is this I see and hear!
VALENTINE. 'Tis indeed, madam; we thank the giver.
VALENTINE. 'Tis true; for you are over boots in love,
VALENTINE. A woman sometime scorns what best contents her.
VALENTINE. And I will help thee to prefer her too:
VALENTINE. And how do yours?
VALENTINE. And on a love-book pray for my success?
VALENTINE. And why not death rather than living torment?
VALENTINE. And writers say, as the most forward bud
VALENTINE. And, as we walk along, I dare be bold
VALENTINE. Are all these things perceiv'd in me?
VALENTINE. As much to you at home; and so farewell!
VALENTINE. As you enjoin'd me, I have writ your letter
VALENTINE. Ay, Proteus, but that life is alter'd now;
VALENTINE. Ay, and we are betroth'd; nay more, our marriage-hour,
VALENTINE. Ay, boy, it's for love.
VALENTINE. Ay, my good lord, I know the gentleman
VALENTINE. Ay, my good lord.
VALENTINE. Ay, my good lord; a son that well deserves
VALENTINE. Belike, boy, then you are in love; for last morning you
VALENTINE. But tell me, dost thou know my lady Silvia?
VALENTINE. By seven o'clock I'll get you such a ladder.
VALENTINE. Call her divine.
VALENTINE. Cease to persuade, my loving Proteus:
VALENTINE. Come, come, a hand from either.
VALENTINE. Dost thou know her by my gazing on her, and yet know'st
VALENTINE. Even she; and is she not a heavenly saint?
VALENTINE. For that which now torments me to rehearse:
VALENTINE. Forbear, forbear, I say; it is my lord the Duke.
VALENTINE. From Milan.
VALENTINE. Give him leave, madam; he is a kind of chameleon.
VALENTINE. Go to, sir; tell me, do you know Madam Silvia?
VALENTINE. Ha! let me see; ay, give it me, it's mine;
VALENTINE. Haply I do.
VALENTINE. Hast thou observ'd that? Even she, I mean.
VALENTINE. How does your lady, and how thrives your love?
VALENTINE. How esteem'st thou me? I account of her beauty.
VALENTINE. How long hath she been deform'd?
VALENTINE. How now, sir! What are you reasoning with yourself?
VALENTINE. How now, sirrah?
VALENTINE. How painted? and how out of count?
VALENTINE. How use doth breed a habit in a man!
VALENTINE. I have din'd.
VALENTINE. I have lov'd her ever since I saw her, and still
VALENTINE. I have.
VALENTINE. I knew him as myself; for from our infancy
VALENTINE. I know it well, my lord; and, sure, the match
VALENTINE. I know it well, sir; you always end ere you begin.
VALENTINE. I know it well, sir; you have an exchequer of words,
VALENTINE. I mean that her beauty is exquisite, but her favour
VALENTINE. I pray thee, Launce, an if thou seest my boy,
VALENTINE. I quote it in your jerkin.
VALENTINE. I take your offer, and will live with you,
VALENTINE. I thank your Grace; the gift hath made me happy.
VALENTINE. I warrant you, my lord- more grace than boy.
VALENTINE. I was, and held me glad of such a doom.
VALENTINE. I was.
VALENTINE. I would it were no worse.
VALENTINE. If it please me, madam, what then?
VALENTINE. If the Duke continue these favours towards you, Cesario,
VALENTINE. In conclusion, I stand affected to her.
VALENTINE. Indeed, madam, I seem so.
VALENTINE. Is Silvia dead?
VALENTINE. It will be light, my lord, that you may bear it
VALENTINE. Last night she enjoin'd me to write some lines to one
VALENTINE. Leave off discourse of disability;
VALENTINE. Love is your master, for he masters you;
VALENTINE. Madam and mistress, a thousand good morrows.
VALENTINE. Madam, they are for you.
VALENTINE. Mistress, it is; sweet lady, entertain him
VALENTINE. Mistress?
VALENTINE. My ears are stopp'd and cannot hear good news,
VALENTINE. My friends-
VALENTINE. My lord, I will be thankful
VALENTINE. My youthful travel therein made me happy,
VALENTINE. Nay, sure, I think she holds them prisoners still.
VALENTINE. Neither.
VALENTINE. No Valentine, if Silvia have forsworn me.
VALENTINE. No Valentine, indeed, for sacred Silvia.
VALENTINE. No more; unless the next word that thou speak'st
VALENTINE. No, I will not, for it boots thee not.
VALENTINE. No, believe me.
VALENTINE. No, believe me.
VALENTINE. No, boy, but as well as I can do them.
VALENTINE. No, madam; so it stead you, I will write,
VALENTINE. No.
VALENTINE. Not for the world! Why, man, she is mine own;
VALENTINE. Not mine: my gloves are on.
VALENTINE. Not so fair, boy, as well-favour'd.
VALENTINE. Nothing but my fortune.
VALENTINE. Nothing.
VALENTINE. Now trust me, madam, it came hardly off;
VALENTINE. Now, tell me, how do all from whence you came?
VALENTINE. O my dear Silvia! Hapless Valentine!
VALENTINE. O, I have fed upon this woe already,
VALENTINE. O, flatter me; for love delights in praises!
VALENTINE. Of my mistress, then.
VALENTINE. Pardon me, Proteus; all I can is nothing
VALENTINE. Peace, villain!
VALENTINE. Please it your Grace, there is a messenger
VALENTINE. Please you, I'll tell you as we pass along,
VALENTINE. Please you, I'll write your ladyship another.
VALENTINE. Ruffian! let go that rude uncivil touch;
VALENTINE. She gave me none except an angry word.
VALENTINE. Should I have wish'd a thing, it had been he.
VALENTINE. So do you.
VALENTINE. So please my lord, I might not be admitted,
VALENTINE. So, by your circumstance, I fear you'll prove.
VALENTINE. Some sixteen months, and longer might have stay'd,
VALENTINE. Sweet Proteus, no; now let us take our leave.
VALENTINE. Sweet, except not any;
VALENTINE. That's on some shallow story of deep love:
VALENTINE. That's the letter I writ to her friend.
VALENTINE. The tenour of them doth but signify
VALENTINE. Then I am paid;
VALENTINE. Then know that I have little wealth to lose;
VALENTINE. Then speak the truth by her; if not divine,
VALENTINE. These banish'd men, that I have kept withal,
VALENTINE. This is the gentleman I told your ladyship
VALENTINE. Thou common friend, that's without faith or love-
VALENTINE. Thurio, give back, or else embrace thy death;
VALENTINE. To Verona.
VALENTINE. To be in love- where scorn is bought with groans,
VALENTINE. To do what?
VALENTINE. To see such lovers, Thurio, as yourself;
VALENTINE. To whom?
VALENTINE. Welcome, dear Proteus! Mistress, I beseech you
VALENTINE. Well, then, I'll double your folly.
VALENTINE. Well, you'll still be too forward.
VALENTINE. What dost thou know?
VALENTINE. What figure?
VALENTINE. What lets but one may enter at her window?
VALENTINE. What means your ladyship? Do you not like it?
VALENTINE. What should I see then?
VALENTINE. What would your Grace have me to do in this?
VALENTINE. When would you use it? Pray, sir, tell me that.
VALENTINE. Why then I would resort to her by night.
VALENTINE. Why then a ladder, quaintly made of cords,
VALENTINE. Why, any cloak will serve the turn, my lord.
VALENTINE. Why, boy! why, wag! how now!
VALENTINE. Why, how know you that I am in love?
VALENTINE. Why, lady, Love hath twenty pair of eyes.
VALENTINE. Why, she hath not writ to me.
VALENTINE. Why, sir, who bade you call her?
VALENTINE. Why?
VALENTINE. Will you make haste?
VALENTINE. Win her with gifts, if she respect not words:
VALENTINE. Wise.
VALENTINE. Without me? They cannot.
VALENTINE. You have said, sir.
VALENTINE. Your folly.
VALENTINE. Yourself, sweet lady; for you gave the fire. Sir Thurio
VIOLA, sister of Sebastian
VIOLA. 'Tis beauty truly blent, whose red and white
VIOLA. A blank, my lord. She never told her love,
VIOLA. A little, by your favour.
VIOLA. About your years, my lord.
VIOLA. Above my fortunes, yet my state is well:
VIOLA. After him I love
VIOLA. Alas, I took great pains to study it, and 'tis poetical.
VIOLA. And I, most jocund, apt, and willingly,
VIOLA. And all those sayings will I overswear;
VIOLA. And died that day when Viola from her birth
VIOLA. And he is yours, and his must needs be yours:
VIOLA. And so they are; alas, that they are so!
VIOLA. And what should I do in Illyria?
VIOLA. And you, sir.
VIOLA. And you, sir.
VIOLA. Art not thou the Lady Olivia's fool?
VIOLA. Art thou a churchman?
VIOLA. Ay, but I know-
VIOLA. But if she cannot love you, sir?
VIOLA. By innocence I swear, and by my youth,
VIOLA. By my troth, I'll tell thee, I am almost sick for one;
VIOLA. Cesario is your servant's name, fair Princess.
VIOLA. Dear lady-
VIOLA. Et vous aussi; votre serviteur.
VIOLA. Even now, sir; on a moderate pace I have since arriv'd but
VIOLA. Excellently done, if God did all.
VIOLA. For saying so, there's gold.
VIOLA. Good madam, let me see your face.
VIOLA. He did me kindness, sir; drew on my side;
VIOLA. He nam'd Sebastian. I my brother know
VIOLA. Here comes the man, sir, that did rescue me.
VIOLA. How can this be?
VIOLA. I Pity YOU.
VIOLA. I am a messenger.
VIOLA. I am all the daughters of my father's house,
VIOLA. I am bound to your niece, sir; I mean, she is the list of my
VIOLA. I am no fee'd post, lady; keep your purse;
VIOLA. I beseech you, what manner of man is he?
VIOLA. I can say little more than I have studied, and that
VIOLA. I do assure you 'tis against my will.
VIOLA. I know of none,
VIOLA. I left no ring with her; what means this lady?
VIOLA. I pray you, sir, what is he?
VIOLA. I saw thee late at the Count Orsino's.
VIOLA. I see you what you are: you are too proud;
VIOLA. I shall be much bound to you for't. I am one that would
VIOLA. I thank thee. Lead me on.                        Exeunt
VIOLA. I thank you. Here comes the Count.
VIOLA. I think it well, my lord.
VIOLA. I think not so, my lord.
VIOLA. I understand you, sir; 'tis well begg'd.
VIOLA. I warrant thou art a merry fellow and car'st for nothing.
VIOLA. I will acquit you.
VIOLA. I will answer you with gait and entrance. But we are
VIOLA. I will return again into the house and desire some conduct
VIOLA. I'll do my best
VIOLA. If I did love you in my master's flame,
VIOLA. If nothing lets to make us happy both
VIOLA. In Orsino's bosom.
VIOLA. It alone concerns your ear. I bring no overture of war, no
VIOLA. It gives a very echo to the seat
VIOLA. Madam, I come to whet your gentle thoughts
VIOLA. Madam?
VIOLA. Make me a willow cabin at your gate,
VIOLA. Methinks his words do from such passion fly
VIOLA. Most certain, if you are she, you do usurp yourself; for
VIOLA. Most radiant, exquisite, and unmatchable beauty- I pray you
VIOLA. Most sweet lady-
VIOLA. My duty, madam, and most humble service.
VIOLA. My father had a mole upon his brow.
VIOLA. My legs do better understand me, sir, than I understand what
VIOLA. My lord would speak; my duty hushes me.
VIOLA. My lord, I do protest-
VIOLA. My matter hath no voice, lady, but to your own most pregnant
VIOLA. Nay, an thou pass upon me, I'll no more with thee.
VIOLA. Nay, that's certain; they that dally nicely with words may
VIOLA. No, good swabber, I am to hull here a little longer.
VIOLA. No, my lord, not I.
VIOLA. No, my profound heart; and yet, by the very fangs of malice
VIOLA. No, not a grize; for 'tis a vulgar proof
VIOLA. Nothing but this- your true love for my master.
VIOLA. O my poor brother! and so perchance may he be.
VIOLA. O that I serv'd that lady,
VIOLA. Of Messaline; Sebastian was my father.
VIOLA. Of your complexion.
VIOLA. On your attendance, my lord, here.
VIOLA. Orsino! I have heard my father name him.
VIOLA. Pray you, sir, do you know of this matter?
VIOLA. Pray, sir, put your sword up, if you please.
VIOLA. Save thee, friend, and thy music!
VIOLA. Say I do speak with her, my lord, what then?
VIOLA. She took the ring of me; I'll none of it.
VIOLA. So thou mayst say the king lies by a beggar, if a beggar
VIOLA. Sooth, but you must.
VIOLA. Sure, my noble lord,
VIOLA. That you do think you are not what you are.
VIOLA. The captain that did bring me first on shore
VIOLA. The honourable lady of the house, which is she?
VIOLA. The rudeness that hath appear'd in me have I learn'd from my
VIOLA. Then think you right: I am not what I am.
VIOLA. Then westward-ho!
VIOLA. There is a fair behaviour in thee, Captain;
VIOLA. This fellow is wise enough to play the fool;
VIOLA. This is as uncivil as strange. I beseech you do me this
VIOLA. Thy reason, man?
VIOLA. To answer by the method: in the first of his heart.
VIOLA. Too well what love women to men may owe.
VIOLA. What country, friends, is this?
VIOLA. What is his name?
VIOLA. What money, sir?
VIOLA. What's she?
VIOLA. Who does beguile you? Who does do you wrong?
VIOLA. Who governs here?
VIOLA. Why do you speak to me? I never hurt you.
VIOLA. Why, man?
VIOLA. With adorations, fertile tears,
VIOLA. With the same haviour that your passion bears
VIOLA. Would it be better, madam, than I am?
VIOLA. Yes, being kept together and put to use.
VIOLA. You either fear his humour or my negligence, that you call
VIOLA. You mistake, sir; I am sure no man hath any quarrel to me;
VIOLA. [Aside] Pray God defend me! A little thing would make me
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
SIR TOBY. Th' art i' th' right. Go, sir, rub your chain with crumbs.
[Disarms]
1595
1602
1611
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
A city in Illyria; and the sea-coast near it
A street
A street
ACT I. SCENE I.
ACT I. SCENE I.
ACT I. SCENE I.
ACT II. SCENE I.
ACT II. SCENE I.
ACT II. SCENE I.
ACT III. SCENE I.
ACT III. SCENE I.
ACT IV. SCENE I.
ACT IV. SCENE I.
ACT V. SCENE 1.
ACT V. SCENE 10.
ACT V. SCENE 2.
ACT V. SCENE 3.
ACT V. SCENE 4.
ACT V. SCENE 5.
ACT V. SCENE 6.
ACT V. SCENE 7.
ACT V. SCENE 8.
ACT V. SCENE 9.
ACT V. SCENE I.
ACT V. SCENE I.
ACT_4|SC_1
Another part of the forest
Another part of the plain
Another part of the plain
Another part of the plain
Another part of the plain
Another part of the plain
Another part of the plain
Before OLIVIA'S house
Before OLIVIA's house
CLOWN. Would you have a love-song, or a song of good life?
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DRAMATIS PERSONAE
DRAMATIS PERSONAE
Dramatis Personae
Enter ACHILLES and PATROCLUS
Enter ACHILLES, with Myrmidons
Enter AENEAS, PARIS, ANTENOR, and DEIPHOBUS
Enter AJAX
Enter ANTONIO and PANTHINO
Enter ANTONIO and SEBASTIAN
Enter CAMILLO and ARCHIDAMUS
Enter CLOWN and FABIAN
Enter DIOMEDES
Enter DIOMEDES and A SERVANT
Enter DUKE and THURIO
Enter DUKE, THURIO, and PROTEUS
Enter DUKE, VIOLA, CURIO, and OTHERS
Enter EGLAMOUR
Enter EGLAMOUR
Enter HECTOR
Enter HECTOR and ANDROMACHE
Enter HERMIONE, MAMILLIUS, and LADIES
Enter JULIA and LUCETTA
Enter JULIA and LUCETTA
Enter LAUNCE with his dog
Enter LAUNCE, leading a dog
Enter LEONTES, POLIXENES, HERMIONE, MAMILLIUS, CAMILLO, and ATTENDANTS
Enter MARIA and CLOWN
Enter MARIA and CLOWN
Enter OLIVIA and MARIA
Enter ORSINO, Duke of Illyria, CURIO, and other LORDS; MUSICIANS attending
Enter OUTLAWS with SILVA
Enter PAULINA, a GENTLEMAN, and ATTENDANTS
Enter PROTEUS
Enter PROTEUS
Enter PROTEUS and JULIA
Enter SEBASTIAN
Enter SEBASTIAN and ANTONIO
Enter SEBASTIAN and CLOWN
Enter SILVIA, VALENTINE, THURIO, and SPEED
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH and MARIA
Enter SIR TOBY and SIR ANDREW
Enter SIR TOBY, SIR ANDREW and FABIAN
Enter SIR TOBY, SIR ANDREW, and FABIAN
Enter SPEED and LAUNCE severally
Enter THERSITES. Excursions
Enter THURIO, PROTEUS, and JULIA as SEBASTIAN
Enter VALENTINE
Enter VALENTINE and PROTEUS
Enter VALENTINE and SPEED
Enter VALENTINE, and VIOLA in man's attire
Enter VIOLA and MALVOLIO at several doors
Enter VIOLA, a CAPTAIN, and SAILORS
Enter VIOLA, and CLOWN with a tabor
Enter certain OUTLAWS
Milan. A street
Milan. An abbey
Milan. Outside the DUKE'S palace, under SILVIA'S window
Milan. The DUKE'S palace
Milan. The DUKE'S palace
Milan. The DUKE'S palace
Milan. The DUKE'S palace
Milan. The DUKE'S palace
Milan. The DUKE's palace
OLIVIA'S garden
OLIVIA'S garden
OLIVIA'S garden
OLIVIA'S garden
OLIVIA'S house
OLIVIA'S house
OLIVIA'S house
OLIVIA'S house
OLIVIA'S house
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
SCENE II.
SCENE II.
SCENE II.
SCENE II.
SCENE II.
SCENE II.
SCENE II.
SCENE II.
SCENE II.
SCENE II.
SCENE II.
SCENE III.
SCENE III.
SCENE III.
SCENE III.
SCENE III.
SCENE III.
SCENE III.
SCENE III.
SCENE IV.
SCENE IV.
SCENE IV.
SCENE IV.
SCENE IV.
SCENE IV.
SCENE V.
SCENE V.
SCENE V.
SCENE VI.
SCENE VII.
SCENE:
SCENE:
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
Sicilia. A prison
Sicilia. The palace of LEONTES
Sicilia. The palace of LEONTES
Sicilia. The palace of LEONTES
Sound retreat. Shout. Enter AGAMEMNON, AJAX, MENELAUS, NESTOR, DIOMEDES,
THE END
THE END
THE END
THE TWO GENTLEMEN OF VERONA
THE WINTER'S TALE
TWELFTH NIGHT; OR, WHAT YOU WILL
The DUKE'S palace
The DUKE'S palace
The DUKE'S palace
The Grecian camp. Before CALCHAS' tent
The Grecian camp. Before the tent of ACHILLES
The frontiers of Mantua. A forest
The frontiers of Mantua. The forest
The plain between Troy and the Grecian camp
The sea-coast
The sea-coast
Troy. Before PRIAM'S palace
Under SILVIA'S Window
Under SILVIA'S window
Verona. A street
Verona. ANTONIO'S house
Verona. An open place
Verona. JULIA'S house
Verona. JULIA'S house
Verona. The garden Of JULIA'S house
Verona; Milan; the frontiers of Mantua
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
[Whispers]
and the rest, marching
by William Shakespeare
by William Shakespeare
by William Shakespeare
