http://www.gutenberg.net/7/76/
Chief Executive and Director
Dr. Gregory B. Newby
License.  You must require such a user to return or
Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
Project Gutenberg-tm works.
address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.
does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
gbnewby@pglaf.org
has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
of receipt of the work.
owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."
the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
"'Deed, THAT ain't the ticket, Miss Mary Jane," I says, "by no manner of
"'Doan' you hear me?  Shet de do'!'
"'Fraid to LIVE!--why, I was that scared I dasn't hardly go to bed, or
"'I lay I MAKE you mine!'
"'Nough!--I OWN UP!"
"'Shet de do'.'
"'Tis my fate to be always ground into the mire under the iron heel of
"--and load up the cabin with rats and snakes and so on, for company for
"--they bein' partickler friends o' the diseased.  That's why they're
"A DOZEN says you!--FORTY couldn't a done every thing that's been done.
"A SHEET gone!  Well, for the land's sake!"
"A couple of case-knives."
"A farmer by the name of Silas Ph--" and then he stopped.  You see, he
"A fess--a fess is--YOU don't need to know what a fess is.  I'll show him
"A little short of four miles--right out in the country, back here."
"Ah, you would not believe me; the world never believes--let it pass
"Ain't them old crippled picks and things in there good enough to dig a
"Alas!"
"Alas!"
"Alas, alas, our poor brother--gone, and we never got to see him; oh,
"All right, I ain't saying nothing; I'm the servant-girl.  Who's Jim's
"All right, I'll do it, seeing it's you, and you've been good to us and
"All right, doctor," says the king, kinder mocking him; "we'll try and
"All right, then, I'll GO to hell"--and tore it up.
"All right, then, I'll do it; but I could carry it just as handy in my
"All right, then," says the other girls; "you just ask his pardon."
"All right, we'll get you some."
"All right," I says, "I can walk it in three days.  And I'll start this
"All right," I says, "I don't want nothing more out of YOU than just your
"All right," they said, and cleared out to lay for their uncles, and give
"All right--I don't care where he comes out, so he COMES out; and Jim
"All right--bring it out."
"All right--that's mighty good; they won't find me, and they'll think
"All right.  I'm jist a-freezn' for something fresh, anyway.  Le's
"All right; I wash MY hands of the matter.  But I warn you all that a
"All right; but wait a minute.  There's one more thing--a thing that
"All right; trot ahead."
"An' look at that-air ladder made out'n rags, Sister Hotchkiss," says old
"And JIM?"
"And if it just happens so that I don't get away, but get took up along
"Are YOU English, too?"
"Because Mary Jane 'll be in mourning from this out; and first you know
"Because it's mixed up with other things."
"Because part of it was watermelon."
"Because she's a big Orleans boat, and I was afeard she mightn't stop
"Because you hain't got but one ON.  Just LISTEN at the man!  I know you
"Bilgewater, I am the late Dauphin!"
"Bilgewater, kin I trust you?" says the old man, still sort of sobbing.
"Blame it, can't you TRY?  I only WANT you to try--you needn't keep it up
"Blame it, do you suppose there ain't but one preacher to a church?"
"Blame it, this whole thing is just as easy and awkward as it can be.
"Blamed if I know--that is, what's become of the raft.  That old fool had
"Boggs!"
"Boggs!" and then fetched his cane down slow to a level, and says "Bang!"
"Borrow a shirt, too."
"Bridgewater," which, he said, was a title anyway, and not a name; and
"Broke his arm--VERY likely, AIN'T it?--and very convenient, too, for a
"Brought you down from whar?  Whar was you brought down from?"
"Buck went off 'thout waking me up."
"But I ain't going to make no complaint.  Any way that suits you suits
"But I reckon we ought to tell Uncle Harvey she's gone out a while,
"But I thought YOU lived in Sheffield?"
"But YOU always went to church."
"But bless you, honey, I doan' WANT none.  I's afeard un um.  I jis' 's
"But de trouble all DONE ef de snake bite me while I's a tryin' him.
"But dis one do SMELL so like de nation, Huck."
"But here we're a-running on this way, and you hain't told me a word
"But how in the nation'd they ever GIT that grindstone IN there, ANYWAY?
"But if Juliet's such a young gal, duke, my peeled head and my white
"But it IS, though--straight as a string.  I see the handbill myself.  It
"But it's SOMEBODY'S plates, ain't it?"
"But looky here, Tom, what do we want to WARN anybody for that
"But my lan', Mars Sid, how's I gwyne to make 'm a witch pie?  I doan'
"But oh, dear, dear, what WILL Sis say!  He must a come!  You must a
"But the histrionic muse is the darling.  Have you ever trod the boards,
"But they WILL--and inside of two weeks--and I KNOW it!" says I.
"But we won't LET you walk--it wouldn't be Southern hospitality to do it.
"But what time o' day?"
"But, Huck, dese kings o' ourn is reglar rapscallions; dat's jist what
"But, Jim, you GOT to have 'em--they all do.  So don't make no more fuss
"By the living jingo, here's the bag of gold on his breast!"
"Cain't; I hain't got but one chaw left.  Ask Bill."
"Can't nobody READ his plates."
"Cert'nly.  But do you mean BEFORE you go to Mr. Lothrop's, or--"
"Clah to goodness I hain't no notion, Miss' Sally.  She wuz on de
"Cler out from here, you hussy, er I'll take a skillet to ye!"
"Cler the track, thar.  I'm on the waw-path, and the price uv coffins is
"Come out here, Sherburn! Come out and meet the man you've swindled.
"Come to think, the logs ain't a-going to do; they don't have log walls
"Confound it, it's foolish, Tom."
"Cuss the doctor!  What do we k'yer for HIM?  Hain't we got all the fools
"DAH, now, Huck, what I tell you?--what I tell you up dah on Jackson
"DO with it?  He can hide it in his bed, can't he?  That's what they all
"De goodness gracious alive, Mars Tom!  Why, if dey was a rattlesnake to
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
"Dern him, I wonder what he done with that four hundred and fifteen
"Dern your skin, ain't the company good enough for you?" says the
"Did I give you the letter?"
"Did anybody send 'em word?"
"Did you ever see the king?"
"Did you ever see us before?"
"Did you sing out?"
"Didn't I SAY I was going to help steal the nigger?"
"Do I know you?  I know you clear through was born and raised in the
"Do you go to church, too?"
"Do you reckon that nigger would blow on us?  We'd skin him if he done
"Doan' you 'member de house dat was float'n down de river, en dey wuz a
"Does WHO know us?"
"Don t you what ME, you impudent thing--hand out them letters."
"Don't be no rougher on him than you're obleeged to, because he ain't a
"Don't ever let on to know us.  And if you hear any digging going on
"Don't it s'prise you de way dem kings carries on, Huck?"
"Don't say yes'm--say Aunt Sally.  Where'd she get aground?"
"Don't they give 'em holidays, the way we do, Christmas and New Year's
"Don't you believe it.  We'll fetch you a little one and you plant it in
"Don't you do it.  I don't hear the dogs and horses yet; you've got time
"Don't you holler.  Just set still and take it like a man.  I got to tell
"Don't you know, Mars Jawge?"
"Don't you play nothing on me, because I wouldn't on you.  Honest injun,
"Don't you reckon I know what I'm about?  Don't I generly know what I'm
"Don't you worry--just depend on me."  Then he stooped down and begun to
"Down to Silas Phelps' place, two mile below here.  He's a runaway
"Drot your pore broken heart," says the baldhead; "what are you heaving
"Dry up!  I don't want to hear no more out of you!" says the duke.  "And
"Easy!"
"En a mighty good job it wuz, too, Huck.  It 'uz planned beautiful, en it
"En wid dat I fetch' her a slap side de head dat sont her a-sprawlin'.
"Everything's all right now except tools; and that's easy fixed."
"For a dog."
"For the land's sake, what IS the matter with the child?  He's got the
"For the steamboat; going to Orleans."
"For what?"  I says.
"Four days!" she says; "I'll stay a year!"
"Friends all, my poor brother that lays yonder has done generous by them
"Funeral to-morrow, likely?"
"GOOD-bye.  I'm going to do everything just as you've told me; and if I
"Geewhillikins," I says, "but what does the rest of it mean?"
"Gentlemen, I wish the money was there, for I ain't got no disposition to
"Gentlemen," says the young man, very solemn, "I will reveal it to you,
"Gentlemen--gentleMEN!  Hear me just a word--just a SINGLE word--if you
"Gets it the way people down here gets Congress-water--in barrels.  There
"Gimme a CASE-KNIFE."
"Gimme a chaw 'v tobacker, Hank."
"Gimme the rags; I can do it myself.  Don't stop now; don't fool around
"Git aboard," says the king.  "Hold on a minute, my servant 'll he'p you
"Go 'long to your play, and don't bother me.  I know better, I counted 'm
"Go for his daughter!--quick, go for his daughter; sometimes he'll listen
"Gone to see a friend is all right, but I won't have my love given to
"Good gracious! anybody hurt?"
"Good lan'! is dat you, honey?  Doan' make no noise."
"Good land!  Set the run--What IS the child talking about!  Dear, dear,
"Good land!"  I says; "why, there ain't NO necessity for it.  And what
"Good land, duke, lemme hug you!  It's the most dazzling idea 'at ever a
"Good!  Splendid!  NOW we're all right and safe! Did you tell Aunty?"
"Good!" says the old gentleman.  "Now, what you DID see on his breast was
"Good," she says, "I'll do it."
"Good-NESS gracious!" she says, "what in the warld can have become of
"Goodness sakes! would a runaway nigger run SOUTH?"
"Goodnessgracioussakes, I'd a ben afeard to live in sich a--"
"Great guns, THIS is a go!" says the king; and both of them looked pretty
"Greenhorns, flatheads!  I knew the first house would keep mum and let
"HANNEL 'm, Mars Sid?  What IS you a-talkin' 'bout?  I wouldn' lay de
"HERE is my answer."  She hove up the bag of money and put it in the
"HERE'S your opposition line! here's your two sets o' heirs to old Peter
"HIM?" says Aunt Sally; "the runaway nigger?  'Deed he hasn't.  They've
"HOUSE-thieves as well as--"
"HOW'D you come?"
"Hamlet's soliloquy, you know; the most celebrated thing in Shakespeare.
"Hamlet's which?"
"Hang the troublesome rubbage, ther's TEN now!" and she looked huffy and
"Has he come?"
"Have you seen anybody else go in there?"
"He CAN'T write with his left hand," says the old gentleman.  "If he
"He HAS got use for it.  How YOU talk, you better say; you don't know
"He ain't a-comin' back no mo', Huck."
"He don't mean nothing; he's always a-carryin' on like that when he's
"He had a dream," I says, "and it shot him."
"He's alive, thank God!  And that's enough!" and she snatched a kiss of
"Hel-LO!  Where'd YOU come from?"  Then he says, kind of glad and eager,
"Hello!  When was that?"
"Hello!--why, I'm at HOME!  How's that?  Where's the raft?"
"Here comes old Boggs!--in from the country for his little old monthly
"Here he comes!  Stick your head down lower--there, that'll do; you can't
"Here they are!  They've broke for the river!  After 'em, boys, and turn
"Here's the ticket.  This hole's big enough for Jim to get through if we
"Here, gimme the CHAW, and you take the PLUG."
"His'n?  What does HE want with a pew?"
"Hold on!  Just a word, gentlemen."  They stopped to listen.  "We are
"Hold on, hold on!  Collar all these four men and the boy, and fetch THEM
"Hold on," says the duke.  "Le's make up the deffisit," and he begun to
"Hold!  What do you mean?"
"Honest injun, I ain't," I says.
"Honest injun, now, hain't you been telling me a lot of lies?"
"Honest injun," says I.
"Honest, I'll tell you everything just as it happened, your majesty.  The
"Honor bright, now--no lies."
"Honor bright, your majesty, I'm telling you the truth.  I hain't been
"Hooray!" they all shouted, and was starting right off; but the lawyer
"How I gwyne to ketch her en I out in de woods?  No; some er de niggers
"How are you on the deef and dumb, Bilgewater?"
"How can he blow?  Hain't he run off?"
"How does he get it, then?"
"How long will it take, Tom?"
"How'd you get your breakfast so early on the boat?"
"How'd you say he got shot?"
"How's it a new kind?"
"Huck Finn, did you EVER hear of a prisoner having picks and shovels, and
"Huck, does you reck'n we gwyne to run acrost any mo' kings on dis trip?"
"Hurry!  HURRY!"  I says.  "Where's Jim?"
"I DIDN'T nuther."
"I TOLD you we'd be too soon; they haven't come--the door is locked.
"I ain' got nuffn but a coase comb en a piece o' paper, en a juice-harp;
"I ain't joking, either."
"I ain't undisposed.  What's your line--mainly?"
"I believe it's so--and if it ain't so, there's a heap stronger
"I can't imagine," says the old gentleman; "and I must say it makes me
"I come down on the Susan Powell from Cincinnati."
"I declare to gracious ther' AIN'T but nine!" she says.  "Why, what in
"I didn't mean nothing, m'am.  I didn't mean no harm.  I--I--thought
"I didn't say, but it was last night."
"I didn't."
"I doan know but maybe I could, Mars Tom; but it's tolable dark in heah,
"I don't care whether 'twas little or whether 'twas big; he's here in our
"I don't know 'm."
"I don't know.  A month and a half."
"I don't know."
"I don't know; leastways, I kinder forget; but I thinks it's--"
"I don't reckon he does; but what put that into your head?"
"I don't think we put that money in a good place."
"I don't want to blow on nobody; and I ain't got no time to blow, nohow.
"I don't wish to be too hard on these two men, but I think they're
"I got hurt a little, en couldn't swim fas', so I wuz a considable ways
"I hain't been doing a single thing, Aunt Sally, I hope to gracious if I
"I hain't been nowheres," I says, "only just hunting for the runaway
"I hain't come back--I hain't been GONE."
"I hain't ever done you no harm.  You know that.  So, then, what you want
"I hain't no idea.  Who IS it?"
"I k'n stan' DEM, Mars Tom, but blame' 'f I couldn' get along widout um,
"I know how to fix it.  We got to have a rock for the coat of arms and
"I know it, Sally, and I do try all I can.  But it oughtn't to be
"I know what you'll say.  You'll say it's dirty, low-down business; but
"I know, but--"
"I know; but you don't want it but fifteen minutes, to carry the
"I laid out a hunk of it," I says, "on a piece of a corn-pone."
"I mean every word I SAY, Aunt Sally, and if somebody don't go, I'LL go.
"I mean he goes to our church regular when he's in Sheffield.  That's
"I never said nothing of the kind."
"I reckon I knowed that," Tom says, "but you bet he'll have one before he
"I reckon I would, but I don't know.  Why, yonder he is, now.  I know him
"I reckon the world IS coming to an end.  I NEVER see the beat of it in
"I reely don't know, Sally," he says, kind of apologizing, "or you know I
"I say orgies, not because it's the common term, because it ain't
"I should a reckoned the difference in rank would a sejested to you that
"I thought he lived in London?"
"I warn't up at the Pint in the mornin'."
"I was trying to do for the best in sellin' 'em out so quick.  If the
"I was your father's friend, and I'm your friend; and I warn you as a
"I wish I knowed, but I don't.  I HAD it, because I stole it from them;
"I wisht I never die if I done it, duke, and that's honest.  I won't say
"I wonder if Uncle Silas is going to hang this nigger.  If I was to catch
"I wouldn't shake my NIGGER, would I?--the only nigger I had in the
"I'd ruther not TELL you where I put it, Miss Mary Jane, if you don't
"I'll HELP you steal him!"
"I'll answer by doing the Highland fling or the sailor's hornpipe; and
"I'll run right up to town and get him," I says.
"I'll stop up them holes to-day," says Uncle Silas, looking sorrowful.
"I'll tell you something.  We got to be here three days.  If you'll
"I'll tell you.  It ain't right, and it ain't moral, and I wouldn't like
"I'm his mother.  I'll hook a gown from Aunt Sally."
"I'm in, up to the hub, for anything that will pay, Bilgewater; but, you
"I'm sorry sir, but the best we can do is to tell you where he DID live
"I'm sorry to say it," I says, "but Hanner's the very one."
"I'm sorry, and I warn't expecting it.  They told me to.  They all told
"I'm surprised at you, m'am."
"I'm tired of this, but I'll endure it till one o'clock.  Till one
"I've done considerble in the doctoring way in my time.  Layin' on o'
"I've hunted high and I've hunted low, and it does beat all what HAS
"I've thought of something.  Is there anybody here that helped to lay out
"If I get away I sha'n't be here," I says, "to prove these rapscallions
"If gentlemen kin afford to pay a dollar a mile apiece to be took on and
"If you ever deny it again I'll drown you.  It's WELL for you to set
"If you please, let me explain.  Nobody can read my hand but my brother
"If you'd been in town at first, Levi Bell--" The king broke in and
"In that hut down by the ash-hopper.  Why, looky here.  When we was at
"In the bank for to be collected.  Where WOULD it be?"
"In the evenin'--'bout an hour er two before sundown."
"Is dat so?"
"Is it KETCHING?  Why, how you talk.  Is a HARROW catching--in the dark?
"Is it THEM?"
"Is it my poor brother's dear good friend and physician?  I--"
"Is something gone wrong?"
"It ain't no name for it.  They set up with her all night, Miss Mary Jane
"It ain't no use talkin'; bein' brothers to a rich dead man and
"It ain't no use to try to learn you nothing, Huck.  Run along and smouch
"It ain't no use, Huck, it ain't a-going to work.  If we was prisoners it
"It ain't no use, it can't be done.  What you reckon I better do?  Can't
"It does beat all how neat the niggers played their hand.  They let on to
"It don't make no difference how foolish it is, it's the RIGHT way--and
"It don't make no difference what he SAID--that ain't the thing.  The
"It warn't the grounding--that didn't keep us back but a little.  We
"It was an old fellow--a stranger--and he sold out his chance in him for
"It was the day we had the funeral.  In the morning.  It warn't early,
"It's JUST as I expected.  So you had it in your pocket all the time; and
"It's TOM SAWYER!"
"It's YOU, at last!--AIN'T it?"
"It's a good idea.  And I reckon it's been done.  It MUST a been done; it
"It's a good job they got him."
"It's a lie!  You done it, and you got to SAY you done it, or--"
"It's a lie!"--and the duke went for him.  The king sings out:
"It's a lie."
"It's a most amaz'n' good idea, duke--you HAVE got a rattlin' clever head
"It's a pretty long journey.  But it'll be lovely; wisht I was a-going.
"It's all right," I says.
"It's all right; I've got it.  Take my trunk in your wagon, and let on
"It's as simple as tit-tat-toe, three-in-a-row, and as easy as playing
"It's because it warn't INTENDED for any of us to come but Tom," he says;
"It's most uncommon curious, I can't understand it.  I know perfectly
"It's the brazen serpent in the wilderness!  Look upon it and live!"  And
"It's the way I feel, too, Jim.  But we've got them on our hands, and we
"JIM don't know nobody in China."
"Jim ain't got no tin plates.  They feed him in a pan."
"Jim, don't act so foolish.  A prisoner's GOT to have some kind of a dumb
"Jour printer by trade; do a little in patent medicines; theater-actor
"Journal your granny--JIM can't write."
"Just let the auction go right along, and don't worry.  Nobody don't have
"Just look at it a minute, and maybe you can see.  Hain't your uncles
"Keep what, Mars Tom?"
"Keep your hands off of me!" says the doctor.  "YOU talk like an
"Kin any of you gentlemen tell me wher' Mr. Peter Wilks lives?" they give
"Laws alive, I never--"
"Laws bless you, chile, I 'uz right down sho' you's dead agin.  Jack's
"Lay your hand on this book and say it."
"Leastways, I did."
"Leave me alone to cipher out a way so we can run in the daytime if we
"Leggo the boy, you old idiot!  Would YOU a done any different?  Did you
"Like as not we got to be together a blamed long time on this h-yer raft,
"Listen at that, now.  You do beat all for natural stupidness.  Can't you
"Lize, hurry up and get him a hot breakfast right away--or did you get
"Look at Lady Jane Grey," he says; "look at Gilford Dudley; look at old
"Look at that, now!  I might have expected it, letting him go off that
"Looky here, Bilgewater, what'r you referrin' to?"
"Looky here, Bilgewater," he says, "I'm nation sorry for you, but you
"Looky here, Huck, what fools we are to not think of it before!  I bet I
"Looky here," I says; "did you ever see any Congress-water?"
"Many makes it out of iron-rust and tears; but that's the common sort and
"Mars Jawge, if you'll come down into de swamp I'll show you a whole
"Mars Sid, you'll say I's a fool, but if I didn't b'lieve I see most a
"Mary Jane's nineteen, Susan's fifteen, and Joanna's about fourteen
"Meddling with WHO?"  Tom says, dropping his smile and looking surprised.
"Mercy sakes!"
"Mf!  And we reckoned the NIGGERS stole it!"
"Mf!  It's a VERY tough question, AIN'T it!  YES, sir, I k'n tell you
"Miss Mary Jane, I'll tell you what we'll do, and you won't have to stay
"Miss Mary Jane, is there any place out of town a little ways where you
"Miss Mary Jane, you can't a-bear to see people in trouble, and I can't
"Missus, dey's a sheet gone."
"Missus," comes a young yaller wench, "dey's a brass cannelstick miss'n."
"Mr. Archibald Nichols, I presume?"
"Mumps your granny!  They don't set up with people that's got the mumps."
"Mumps."
"My folks was living in Pike County, in Missouri, where I was born, and
"My goodness, and she so well only last week!  Is she took bad?"
"My land!  And they call it the MUMPS?"
"My land!" she says, breaking in and jumping for him, "you impudent young
"My plan is this," I says.  "We can easy find out if it's Jim in there.
"My very WORDS, Brer Penrod!  I was a-sayin'--pass that-air sasser o'
"NO!  A servant ain't nobody there.  They treat them worse than dogs."
"NO, I ain't out of my HEAD; I know all what I'm talking about.  We DID
"NOTH'N!"
"NOW I know how to fix it.  We'll send you some things by them."
"NOW you're TALKING!"  I says; "your head gets leveler and leveler all
"NOW, old Jim, you're a free man again, and I bet you won't ever be a
"Neighbors, I don't know whether the new couple is frauds or not; but if
"Nemmine why, Huck--but he ain't comin' back no mo."
"Never mind why yet.  If I'll tell you how I know the niggers will see
"No you ain't.  You ain't the only person that's ben snaked down
"No you won't," she says.  "You'll stay right wher' you are; ONE'S enough
"No you wont, you'll start NOW; and don't you lose any time about it,
"No!  That old fool sold him, and never divided with me, and the money's
"No!  Where?"
"No!--is that so?  AIN'T it bully!  Why, Huck, if it was to do over
"No'm, I'm honest about it; I won't ever do it again--till you ask me."
"No'm.  Killed a nigger."
"No'm."
"No, I didn't see nobody, Aunt Sally.  The boat landed just at daylight,
"No, I know you haven't.  I ain't blaming you, gentlemen.  I brought
"No, but there won't be nobody to see what I look like, ANYWAY."
"No, don't you worry; these country jakes won't ever think of that.
"No, he hain't," Tom says; "it's all there yet--six thousand dollars and
"No, it come yesterday; I hain't read it yet, but IT'S all right, I've
"No, it warn't; but it's the plan NOW."
"No, it wouldn't do--there ain't necessity enough for it."
"No, my boy," says the old gentleman, "I'm sorry to say 't your driver
"No, my name's Blodgett--Elexander Blodgett--REVEREND Elexander Blodgett,
"No, not till you've asked me first."
"No, sah, I hain't said a word."
"No, sah, I hain't seed none."
"No, sah, thanks to goodness I hain't, Mars Tom."
"No, sah," says Jim; "I hain't said nothing, sah."
"No, sah; not as I knows on."
"No, she warn't.  She was tore up a good deal--one en' of her was; but
"No, we DIDN'T.  We never seen any marks at all."
"No, you ain't the only person that's had a secret of his birth."  And,
"No, you didn't give me no letter."
"No, you're out, there.  They hain't got it."
"No, your grace, not as I remember, I believe."
"No, your majesty"--which was the way I always called him when nobody but
"No, your majesty, we warn't--PLEASE don't, your majesty!"
"No, your majesty."
"No," I says, "I reckon not."
"No," I says, "it don't."
"No," says I, "I don't."
"No," says her husband.
"No," says the king.
"No," says the old man, "I reckon there ain't going to be any; and you
"No--leastways, not all at once--that is, I don't think I ever see them
"No--not impudent whelps, Sid.  You ought to had your jaws boxed; I
"No.  I warn't ever murdered at all--I played it on them.  You come in
"No; I ain't heard nobody say nothing."
"No; spirits wouldn't say, 'Dern the dern fog.'"
"No?"
"Nobody."
"None o' your business!  You keep your head shet, and mind y'r own
"None of it at all.  Not a lie in it," says I.
"None of it at all?"
"Nor church."
"Nor church?"
"Not a word?"
"Not much.  I'll stuff Jim's clothes full of straw and lay it on his bed
"Not now; have it for breakfast, have it for breakfast!  Cut loose and
"Not where I hid it I reckon it won't," I says.
"Noth'n."
"Now I can have a GOOD look at you; and, laws-a-me, I've been hungry for
"Now de duke, he's a tolerble likely man in some ways."
"Now hustle back, right off, and fetch the duke up here, and the new
"Now we're all right.  We'll DIG him out.  It 'll take about a week!"
"Now, the thing to study out is, how to get the things to Jim."
"Now, there's SENSE in that," I says.  "Letting on don't cost nothing;
"Now," says the duke, "after to-night we can run in the daytime if we
"OBSEQUIES, you old fool," and folds it up, and goes to goo-gooing and
"Of course; bother them kind of names, a body can't ever seem to remember
"Oh, DO shet up!--s'pose the rats took the SHEET?  WHERE'S it gone,
"Oh, DO," says Aunt Sally; "it ain't a bit of trouble to us, not a bit in
"Oh, I CAN'T make you so much trouble; I couldn't think of it.  I'll walk
"Oh, I don't know.  But he's got to have it.  All the nobility does."
"Oh, I see, now.  You might a said that in the first place and saved
"Oh, I wouldn't hurry; next year 'll do.  Matilda Angelina Araminta
"Oh, THIS ain't bully nor noth'n!  Oh, no, I reckon not!  Why, Billy, it
"Oh, come to the mourners' bench! come, black with sin! (AMEN!) come,
"Oh, dear, dear, to think they ain't EVER going to see each other any
"Oh, deary me!" says Aunt Sally; "IS he changed so?  Why, that ain't TOM,
"Oh, don't distress me any more'n I'm already distressed.  I don't know
"Oh, for the land's sake!  Give a body a rest!  Go 'long now, the whole
"Oh, he lives in England--Sheffield--preaches there--hasn't ever been in
"Oh, he's dead, he's dead, I know he's dead!"
"Oh, it's de dad-blame' witches, sah, en I wisht I was dead, I do.  Dey's
"Oh, just listen!  A body could tell YOU hain't ever been to England by
"Oh, let UP on this cussed nonsense; do you take me for a blame' fool?
"Oh, nothing much.  Loll around, pass the plate--and one thing or
"Oh, shucks!"  I says; "you're joking."
"Oh, shucks, Huck Finn, if I was as ignorant as you I'd keep still
"Oh, shucks, yes, we can SPARE it.  I don't k'yer noth'n 'bout that--it's
"Oh, stop blaming yourself--it's too bad to do it, and I won't allow it
"Oh, there's one thing I forgot.  Could you raise a flower here, do you
"Oh, what a turn you did give me! and how glad and grateful I am it ain't
"Oh, yes, pretty well off.  He had houses and land, and it's reckoned he
"Oh, yes," I says, "I WOULD.  Of COURSE I would.  I wouldn't lose no
"Oh, yes."
"Oh, yes; a month or two ago, when Peter was first took; because Peter
"Oh, you don't understand, Jim; a coat of arms is very different."
"Oh, you needn't be afeard, sir, she carried the three of us easy
"Oh," he says.
"Oh," he says.  And after a minute, he says:
"Oh," she says, "what am I THINKING about!" she says, and set right down
"Old man," said the young one, "I reckon we might double-team it
"On the contrary, I did."
"On the scutcheon we'll have a bend OR in the dexter base, a saltire
"One er dem big cat-tail-lookin' mullen-stalks would grow in heah, Mars
"Only think of that, now!  What's the matter with her?"
"Our ole raf'."
"Out with you, Jim, and set her loose!  Glory be to goodness, we're shut
"PLEASE, Mars Tom--DOAN' talk so!  I can't STAN' it!  He'd LET me shove
"PRISONERS don't have geese running around the donjon-keep to pull pens
"Pa, mayn't Tom and Sid and me go to the show?"
"People to HELP him, Brother Marples!  Well, I reckon you'd THINK so if
"Perhaps this gentleman can tell me what was tattooed on his breast?"
"Phelps's Sawmill," and when I come to the farm-houses, two or three
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
"Poor William, afflicted as he is, his HEART'S aluz right.  Asks me to
"Poor things! to be left alone in the cold world so."
"Preacher be hanged, he's a fraud and a liar.  He was up at the Pint that
"Quick sales AND small profits!  It's a good business--yes."
"Quick, then, and tell us what WAS your idea, or I'll shake the insides
"Ready?"
"Right at your elbow; if you reach out your arm you can touch him.  He's
"Run her nose in shore," says the king.  I done it.  "Wher' you bound
"S'pose he CAN'T write--he can make marks on the shirt, can't he, if we
"SOLD him?"  I says, and begun to cry; "why, he was MY nigger, and that
"Said he come to take the sea BATHS--that's what I said."
"Sakes alive, I hope it ain't HANNER?"
"Say it, Jim."
"Say, looky here; if you are Harvey Wilks, when'd you come to this town?"
"Say," says the duke, "I got another idea.  Le's go up stairs and count
"Seein' how I'm dressed, I reckon maybe I better arrive down from St.
"Set down, my boy; I wouldn't strain myself if I was you.  I reckon you
"Set her loose, Jim! we're all right now!"
"Seventeen!  My land!  Why, I wouldn't set out such a string as that, not
"She jis stood de same way, kiner smilin' up.  I was a-bilin'!  I says:
"She needn't," I says, "because we was all right.  We followed the men
"She never done it; jis' stood dah, kiner smilin' up at me.  It make me
"She'll die on my han's, Mars Tom, she sholy will; kase I doan' skasely
"Shucks!" he says, and looked disgusted.  So I says:
"Shucks!" says the king, very sarcastic; "but I don't know--maybe you was
"Shucks, Tom," I says, "I think you might tell a person.  What's a bar
"Shucks, and stay fooling around here when we could all be having good
"Shucks, they don't ALL of 'em preach the same day--only ONE of 'em."
"Singular dream," he says.
"Smouch three," he says; "we want one to make a saw out of."
"So 'd I. Well, it wasn't for a dog."
"So clear out," he says; "and you can tell Mr. Foster whatever you want
"So help me, I wouldn't a be--"
"So it was--I noticed it.  Well, it does beat all that I never thought
"So they always acquit; and then a MAN goes in the night, with a hundred
"Sold!" and rose up mad, and was a-going for that stage and them
"Stand by you! indeed I will.  They sha'n't touch a hair of your head!"
"Stop and think."
"TAME it!"
"THEM letters.  I be bound, if I have to take a-holt of you I'll--"
"THEY told you I would.  Whoever told you's ANOTHER lunatic.  I never
"THIRTY-SEVEN YEAR--and he come out in China.  THAT'S the kind.  I wish
"Take them in through the hole," I says, "when we get it done."
"Take y'r hands off!--leggo my throat!--I take it all back!"
"That 'll fix it.  I'll take the order and send it, along with your
"That ain't got anything to DO with it, Huck Finn.  All HE'S got to do is
"That ain't got nothing to do with it.  The thing for us to do is just to
"That ain't nothing; we can get him some."
"That ain't the idea.  You GOT to do it with tears."
"That we better glide out of this before three in the morning, and clip
"That's always your way, Maim--always sailing in to help somebody before
"That's me, every time," says I.  "But maybe his chance ain't worth no
"That's more LIKE," he says.  "It's real mysterious, and troublesome, and
"That's the name," I says; "I most forgot it.  Well, Miss Mary Jane she
"That's what Miss Mary Jane said."
"The Phelpses, down yonder."
"The brute!  Come, don't waste a minute--not a SECOND--we'll have them
"The captain see me standing around, and told me I better have something
"The day before the funeral, friend," says the king.
"The door ain't going to be locked, Tom, and there's the window and the
"The idea of YOU lynching anybody!  It's amusing.  The idea of you
"The man that bought him is named Abram Foster--Abram G. Foster--and he
"The one I got yesterday out of the post-office."
"The same," I says, but couldn't say it pretty brash.  But he never
"The secret of your birth!  Do you mean to say--"
"The very words I was a-sayin' no longer ago th'n this minute to Sister
"The whole BILIN' of 'm 's frauds!  Le's duck 'em! le's drown 'em! le's
"Then what on earth did YOU want to set him free for, seeing he was
"Ther's six CANDLES gone--that's what.  The rats could a got the candles,
"There's several; but it's the Proctors, mainly."
"There, there, don't!  Yes, I'll go before breakfast--I'll be glad to.
"There," says he, "if that line don't fetch them, I don't know Arkansaw!"
"There--you've heard what he said!  Was there any such mark on Peter
"They didn't do nothing.  And they didn't act anyway much, as fur as I
"They don't, don't they?  You better bet they do with THESE mumps.  These
"They hain't no RIGHT to shut him up!  SHOVE!--and don't you lose a
"They're in the trunk.  There, now.  And they're just the same as they
"This ain't no thirty-seven year job; this is a thirty-eight year job,
"This is a surprise to me which I wasn't looking for; and I'll
"Till I ASK you!  Well, I never see the beat of it in my born days!  I
"To dig the foundations out from under that cabin with?"
"To the bitter death!"  He took the old man by the hand and squeezed it,
"To think I should have lived to be leading such a life, and be degraded
"Tom, didn't YOU think Aunt Sally 'd open out her arms and say, 'Sid
"Tom, didn't you just tell me he was all right?  Hasn't he got away?"
"Tom, if it ain't unregular and irreligious to sejest it," I says,
"Too bad, too bad he couldn't a lived to see his brothers, poor soul.
"Tools for what?"
"Tools?"  I says.
"Trouble has done it, Bilgewater, trouble has done it; trouble has brung
"Tryin' to give us the slip, was ye, you pup!  Tired of our company,
"Uneasy!" she says; "I'm ready to go distracted!  He MUST a come; and
"WELL!" says the lawyer, "this IS a state of things.  I've got some of
"WELL, then."
"WELL, you get all the enjoyment you can out of it NOW, for mind I tell
"WHAT raft, Jim?"
"WHOSE pew?"
"WORK?  Why, cert'nly it would work, like rats a-fighting.  But it's too
"Wait jest a minute, duke--answer me this one question, honest and fair;
"Walk fast now till you get away from the houses, and then shin for the
"Want it for Jim to keep a journal on."
"Wants it to set in.  What did you RECKON he wanted with it?"
"Warnings to the people that something is up.  Sometimes it's done one
"Was Peter Wilks well off?"
"Was you in my room night before last?"
"Was you in there yisterday er last night?"
"We ain't got no time to bother over that," he says; "we got to dig in
"We can get along WITH it, too," he says; "just you slide down cellar and
"We can get along without it," I says.
"We didn't see no such mark."
"We never thought of that.  Fact is, I reckon we'd come to consider him
"We'll do it!" they all shouted; "and if we don't find them marks we'll
"Well, 'twarn't no use to 'sturb you, Huck, tell we could do sumfn--but
"Well, Capet, we'll want to make this a first-class show, you know, so I
"Well, I DID pay you back some of it wunst."
"Well, I RECKON!  There's two hunderd dollars reward on him.  It's like
"Well, I don't WANT to know no such foolishness as that.  How is servants
"Well, I don't care if I DID, I didn't DO it, anyway.  But you not only
"Well, I don't know.  Only, they--they--told me you would."
"Well, I must a forgot it."
"Well, I never got 'em, Sis."
"Well, I never heard the likes of it in all my born days!  So it was YOU,
"Well, I never thought--and come to think, I don't know.  What was it?"
"Well, I reck'n he DID!  Dey warn't gwyne to mix you up in it.  Mars Buck
"Well, I see the niggers go in there several times."
"Well, I tell you what I think.  What makes them come here just at this
"Well, I wonder!  Why, I wrote you twice to ask you what you could mean
"Well, I'd been selling an article to take the tartar off the teeth--and
"Well, I'd ben a-running' a little temperance revival thar 'bout a week,
"Well, I'll count 'm AGAIN."
"Well, I've counted them twice, Aunty, and I can't make but nine."
"Well, Sally, I'm in fault, and I acknowledge it; I've been remiss; but I
"Well, Sister Phelps, I've ransacked that-air cabin over, an' I b'lieve
"Well, THAT'S all right then, thank goodness."
"Well, THEY'D be in this house yet and we WOULDN'T if I could a got my
"Well, all right, Tom, fix it your own way; but if you'll take my advice,
"Well, anyway, maybe you'd better tell some of the neighbors."
"Well, anyway," I says, "what's SOME of it?  What's a fess?"
"Well, anyways, I doan' hanker for no mo' un um, Huck.  Dese is all I kin
"Well, as for me, Tom, that's the way I'd like."
"Well, den, Miss Sophia's run off! 'deed she has.  She run off in de
"Well, den, dis is de way it look to me, Huck.  Ef it wuz HIM dat 'uz
"Well, did you have to go to Congress to get it?"
"Well, for the life of me I can't remember when I done it.  I could show
"Well, go on, GO on!  What did they do?  How'd they act?"
"Well, guess."
"Well, he does.  Where WOULD he live?"
"Well, he don't miss any property by it, because he'll get that all
"Well, he was a pretty sick man, and likely he made a mistake--I reckon
"Well, how'd the old thing pan out this time, duke?"  He hadn't been
"Well, if that ain't just like you, Huck Finn.  You CAN get up the
"Well, it ALWAYS is when it's done right.  You got any rats around here?"
"Well, it ain't YOUR fault if you haven't, Silas; you'd a done it if you
"Well, it ain't no use to send things by HIM no more, he ain't reliable."
"Well, it beats ME"--and snaked a lot of old letters out of his pocket,
"Well, it does beat--"
"Well, it don't, because it's in the breed.  I reckon they're all alike,"
"Well, it sounds very good, doctor, I'm obleeged to say."
"Well, it's all terrible sad; but we've all got to go, one time or
"Well, it's awful, I think," says the hare-lip.  "I'll go to Uncle Harvey
"Well, it's lucky; because sometimes people do get hurt.  Two years ago
"Well, maybe you're right--yes, I judge you ARE right."
"Well, measles, and whooping-cough, and erysiplas, and consumption, and
"Well, neither does William Fourth have to go to the sea to get a sea
"Well, some of the best authorities has done it.  They couldn't get the
"Well, spos'n it is?  What does the PRISONER care whose--"
"Well, that 'll answer.  Now you go along out there, and lay low till
"Well, that IS a question, I must say; and just like women!  Why, I
"Well, that's mighty curious.  WHO sung out? WHEN did he sing out?  WHAT
"Well, that's what I'm a-saying; all kings is mostly rapscallions, as fur
"Well, the nigger unlocked the padlock when he went in, and he locked it
"Well, then, I b'lieve you.  But answer me only jest this one more--now
"Well, then, I'll believe some of it; but I hope to gracious if I'll
"Well, then, I'll have to make it myself."
"Well, then, how'd you come to be up at the Pint in the MORNIN'--in a
"Well, then, how's he going to take the sea baths if it ain't on the
"Well, then, if you re bound to go, I'll tell you the way to do when you
"Well, then, it sha'n't be."  It was well enough to tell HER so--no harm
"Well, then, let it go, let it go, if you're so bull-headed about it.  We
"Well, then, what are they FOR?"
"Well, then, what does the rest of 'em do?"
"Well, then, what possessed you to go down there this time of night?"
"Well, then, what we going to do, Tom?"
"Well, then, what'll we make him the ink out of?"
"Well, then, what's the sense in wasting the plates?"
"Well, then, you'll have to stay in the cabin when me and Jim leaves."
"Well, then," I says, "how 'll it do to saw him out, the way I done
"Well, then," I says, "if we don't want the picks and shovels, what do we
"Well, then," I says, "joking or no joking, if you hear anything said
"Well, ther' ain't no sense in it.  A body might stump his toe, and take
"Well, they all do, Jim.  We can't help the way a king smells; history
"Well, they could be worse off.  Old Peter had friends, and they ain't
"Well, they've got that; and it makes me feel pretty silly to think HOW
"Well, this is it, Capet.  I ain't easy; I ain't comfortable.  That
"Well, we can't resk being as long as we ought to, because it mayn't take
"Well, we'll get you some rats."
"Well, what DID you say, then?"
"Well, what in the nation do they call it the MUMPS for?"
"Well, what is it?  And cut it middlin' short, because it's better for us
"Well, when my niece give it to me to keep for her I took and hid it
"Well, who said it was?"
"Well, why wouldn't you?"
"Well, you DO need skinning, there ain't no mistake about it.  And I
"Well, you LEFT it laid out, then--it ain't here."
"Well, you can't GET your nigger, that's all--so dry up your blubbering.
"Well, you just own up, first, that you DID hide that money there,
"Well, you try it, anyway.  Some other prisoners has done it."
"Well," I says, "Jim's right, anyway, when he says he ain't got no coat
"Well," I says, "if it's in the regulations, and he's got to have it, all
"Well," I says, "it's a rough gang, them two frauds, and I'm fixed so I
"Well," I says, "when I see the king in that doggery yesterday I says to
"Well," he says, "it does surprise me so.  I can't make it out, somehow.
"Well," he says, "there's excuse for picks and letting-on in a case like
"Well," he says, "you needn't be afeard no more, becuz they've got him.
"Well," says he, "dat's all right, den.  I doan' mine one er two kings,
"Well," she says, "I'll run down to breakfast now, and then I'll start
"Well--I--I--well, that ought to settle it, of course; but I can't
"Well--WHAT?" he says, kind of pettish.
"Whar'd you come f'm, boy?  You prepared to die?"
"What 're you alassin' about?" says the bald-head.
"What DOES the child mean?"
"What PUT it dar?  Didn' he jis' dis minute sing out like he knowed you?"
"What did you reckon I wanted you to go at all for, Miss Mary?"
"What did you think the vittles was for?"
"What did you want to walk all the way up to the steamboat for?"
"What do we WANT of a saw?  Hain't we got to saw the leg of Jim's bed
"What do we want of a moat when we're going to snake him out from under
"What do we want of a saw?"
"What do we want of a shirt, Tom?"
"What do you reckon's the matter with you, anyway?  What made you think
"What got you into trouble?" says the baldhead to t'other chap.
"What in the nation can he DO with it?"
"What is it you won't believe, Joe?" says Mary Jane, stepping in with
"What is it, duke?"
"What letter?"
"What letters?"
"What makes me feel so bad dis time 'uz bekase I hear sumpn over yonder
"What other things?"
"What three?"
"What was your idea for asking ME?" he says.
"What whole thing?"
"What you been doing down there?"
"What!  And not sell out the rest o' the property?  March off like a
"What!  Why, Jim is--"
"What!--to preach before a king?  I never did see such a girl as you.
"What's THAT got to do with it?  Neither did that other fellow.  But
"What's it all about?"
"What's onkores, Bilgewater?"
"What's the name of them people over on t'other side of the river that
"What's the vittles for?  Going to feed the dogs?"
"What's them?"  I says.
"What, all of them?"
"What, is it over?  Is that ALL?"
"What--regular?"
"When I first see you I says to myself, 'It's Mr. Wilks, sure, and he
"When did you say he died?"
"When it comes to that, maybe you'll let me ask, what was YOU referring
"Where do you set?"
"Where is it, then?"
"Where's the butter?"
"Where's the raft?--got her in a good place?"
"Whereabouts?" says I.
"Which one?"
"Who do you reckon 't is?"
"Who is your folks?" he says.
"Who'd you give the baggage to?"
"Who's 'everybody'?  Out with their names, or ther'll be an idiot short."
"Who's that?  Answer, or I'll shoot!"
"Who?  William Fourth?  Well, I bet I have--he goes to our church."  I
"Why didn't you tell my Jack to fetch me here sooner, Jim?"
"Why do you reckon Harvey don't come?  Wher' does he live?"
"Why don't it, Huck?"
"Why, Aunt Sally, there ain't but nine spoons YET."
"Why, Aunty, I don't think there's ten."
"Why, HUCK!  En good LAN'! ain' dat Misto Tom?"
"Why, I got plenty spring water, Mars Tom."
"Why, I never heard nothing from you," says Aunt Sally.
"Why, I thought he'd be in the pulpit."
"Why, Jim?"
"Why, Maim, he said--"
"Why, Mars Tom, I doan' WANT no rats.  Dey's de dadblamedest creturs to
"Why, Mars Tom, I doan' WANT no sich glory.  Snake take 'n bite Jim's
"Why, Mars Tom, I hain't got no coat o' arm; I hain't got nuffn but dish
"Why, Mars Tom, I lay I kin raise one er dem mullen-stalks twyste wid
"Why, OURN--your Uncle Harvey's."
"Why, Robinson, hain't you heard the news?  This is Harvey Wilks."
"Why, Sally, I COULDN'T miss him along the road--YOU know that."
"Why, Silas!  Look yonder!--up the road!--ain't that somebody coming?"
"Why, THE whole thing.  There ain't but one; how we set the runaway
"Why, TOM!  Where you been all this time, you rascal?"
"Why, Tom Sawyer, how you talk," I says; "Jim ain't got no use for a rope
"Why, Tom, that 'll make trouble next morning; because, of course, she
"Why, Tom, we can pull a feather out of a goose and make him a better
"Why, a rattlesnake."
"Why, about the way the whole thing was done."
"Why, because it IS the mumps.  That's what it starts with."
"Why, blame it all, it ain't the PRISONER'S plates."
"Why, child, it 'll be stole!"
"Why, de gracious sakes! do he know you genlmen?"
"Why, dear me, I never see such a surprise.  We warn't looking for YOU at
"Why, dis-yer runaway nigger."
"Why, dog my cats, they must a ben a house-full o' niggers in there every
"Why, duke, it was you that said make up the deffisit; it warn't me."
"Why, everybody.  They all said so, m'am."
"Why, how did you get hold of the raft again, Jim--did you catch her?"
"Why, how you talk!" says the king.  "We sha'n't rob 'em of nothing at
"Why, how you talk--Sheffield ain't on the sea."
"Why, in our pew."
"Why, is this my poor dead brother's old friend that he's wrote so often
"Why, it's because you ain't one of these leather-face people.  I don't
"Why, it's from St. Petersburg--it's from Sis."
"Why, lawsamercy, it's most night, and Sid not come yet!  What HAS become
"Why, me and Sid, and--and--and THE GUNS; that's what I mean."
"Why, no."
"Why, no; I--I--well, no, I b'lieve I didn't."
"Why, that's just what I was going to ask your grace."
"Why, there's somebody come!  I wonder who 'tis?  Why, I do believe it's
"Why, they're for STYLE.  Don't you know nothing?"
"Why, this is wonderful!  Whoever would a thought it was in that mare to
"Why, to dig with.  We ain't a-going to GNAW him out, are we?"
"Why, to saw Jim's leg off," he says.
"Why, what do they want with more?"
"Why, what else is gone, Sally?"
"Why, where ever did you go?" he says.  "Your aunt's been mighty uneasy."
"Why, who's got it?"
"Why, who's that?"
"Why, you born fool!"  She took up the spinning stick, and it looked like
"Why, you did."
"Why, you just said a body could lift up the bedstead and slip the chain
"Why, you must mean the Apthorps, ain't it?"
"Why?"
"Why?"
"Why?"
"Will you do it, honey?--will you?  I'll wusshup de groun' und' yo' foot,
"With WHO?  Why, the runaway nigger, of course.  Who'd you reckon?"
"Wonder who he's a-gwyne to chaw up this time.  If he'd a-chawed up all
"Would you know the boy again if you was to see him, Hines?"
"YES, sir!  I know you DO know, because you done it yourself!"
"YOU give him a chaw, did you?  So did your sister's cat's grandmother.
"Yes he will LAST, too.  You don't reckon it's going to take thirty-seven
"Yes they would.  THEY don't care what kind of music 'tis.  A jews-harp's
"Yes'm--she--"
"Yes'm."
"Yes, 'bout the middle of the day."
"Yes, DEY will, I reck'n, Mars Tom, but what kine er time is JIM havin'?
"Yes, I know; but you can't depend on them.  It's the way they've acted
"Yes, Mars Sid, A dog.  Cur'us dog, too.  Does you want to go en look at
"Yes, Miss Mary Jane she wanted you to do that.  She says, 'Tell them to
"Yes, a duke's different.  But not very different.  This one's a middling
"Yes, but that ain't only a part of it.  I'm going in a ship, next
"Yes, he is.  He ain't ever told me you was here; told me to come, and
"Yes, he's gone, my son, and you must come in and eat your dinner with
"Yes, it IS good enough for me; it's as good as I deserve; for who
"Yes, it is--and I could a had it if I'd been big enough; I see him
"Yes, my friend, it is too true--your eyes is lookin' at this very moment
"Yes, sir, it's the best way.  Ma used to always say that."
"Yes, you BETTER turn y'r head away--I would if I was you, Tom."
"Yes, you did--'bout six chaws.  You borry'd store tobacker and paid back
"Yes," I says, "but I reckon it ain't regular.  Come up the stairs, and
"Yes," I says.
"Yes," says somebody, "me and Ab Turner done it.  We're both here."
"Yes," says the duke, kinder slow and deliberate and sarcastic, "WE did."
"Yes--easy enough.  Every animal is grateful for kindness and petting,
"Yes--regular.  His pew's right over opposite ourn--on t'other side the
"Yes--regular."
"Yes.  My great-grandfather, eldest son of the Duke of Bridgewater, fled
"Yes."
"Yes."
"Yes."
"Yes."
"Yes."
"Yes."
"Yes."
"Yes."
"Yes; Mr. Lothrop's.  Why?"
"Yes; never mind about them.  They've got to stand it yet a while.  They
"You DEAR good souls!--how LOVELY!--how COULD you!"
"You and your brother please write a line or two and sign your names."
"You are what?"
"You been down cellar?"
"You bet I ain't!  I run across him in the woods about an hour or two
"You bet it is."
"You better a blame' sight give YOURSELF a good cussing, for you're the
"You did!"
"You did."
"You didn't want to come.  The average man don't like trouble and danger.
"You don't KNOW?  Don't answer me that way. Tom, I want to know what you
"You don't WANT spring water; you want to water it with your tears.  It's
"You going, right here in the daybreak?  THAT warn't the plan."
"You got any spiders in here, Jim?"
"You just march into that setting-room and stay there till I come.  You
"You may WELL say it, Brer Hightower!  It's jist as I was a-sayin' to
"You mean to say our old raft warn't smashed all to flinders?"
"You mean where's Huck FINN--that's what you mean!  I reckon I hain't
"You numskull, didn't you see me COUNT 'm?"
"You old scoundrel, I didn't, and you know I didn't.  There, now!"
"You owdacious puppy!"
"You read about them once--you'll see.  Look at Henry the Eight; this 'n
"You shall, then, before you're three days older, Fallen Grandeur," says
"You shove right in dah jist a few steps, Mars Jawge; dah's whah dey is.
"You won't, won't you?  Well, I sh'd RECKON you won't!"
"You wouldn't look like a servant-girl THEN, would you?"
"You!  At your age!  No!  You mean you're the late Charlemagne; you must
"You'll be her.  You slide in, in the middle of the night, and hook that
"You're s'rp--Why, what do you reckon I am?  I've a good notion to take
"You, Tom!"
"Your head's level agin, duke," says the king; and he comes a-fumbling
"but I begged and begged, and at the last minute she let me come, too;
"dissipating witch spells," and so on.  By and by he says:
"there's an old rusty saw-blade around yonder sticking under the
"world-renowned Shakespearian tragedian, Garrick the Younger, of Drury
'em out.  Go 'long now, and tell him anything you want to; but mind you
'em.  If I had capital and a theater, I wouldn't want a better lay-out
'fraid o' de dogs; but when it 'uz all quiet agin I knowed you's in de
'im?"
'll convince anybody the way HE feels about it.  Here, Mary Jane, Susan,
'm rich agin. Dey's mighty good to me, dese niggers is, en whatever I
'n' who dug that-air HOLE? 'n' who--"
's a Sunday-school Superintendent to HIM.  And look at Charles Second,
'sturb a body, en rustle roun' over 'im, en bite his feet, when he's
't I crep' up there and locked 'em in!  I DID.  And anybody would.
'tain't no need to change"--that when Aunt Sally took me for Tom Sawyer I
'uz done beautiful; en dey ain't NOBODY kin git up a plan dat's mo'
'uz mighty well satisfied, en wisht some mo' raf's 'ud come along en make
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
(which was doing a good business), along with some other houses and land
(worth about seven thousand), and three thousand dollars in gold to
*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HUCKLEBERRY FINN ***
*** START: FULL LICENSE ***
***** This file should be named 76.txt or 76.zip *****
- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
--'thout HELP!  THAT'S wher 'tis.  Don't tell ME, s'I; there WUZ help,
--'tis no matter.  The secret of my birth--"
--DEN what would he say!  I jis' bet he couldn' fine no way to git aroun'
--HE see William was going to play one of his jokes the minute he put the
--Hines--and a body might as well try to give Goliar the slip.  He dragged
--I don't mind the distance."
--I won't, honest."
--and I a-trusting you all the time, like you was my own father.  You ought
--and all hot, too; none of your flabby, tough meat that's laid in a
--because a rope ladder is nineteen foot too short, you know--and there's
--every last word of it.  And all the time he was a-doing it he tried to
--everything but a little old trifling lot in the graveyard.  So they'd got
--except one, and that was Uncle Silas, when he come in and they told it
--explanations, I mean, of how I forgot to mention about Sid being shot
--give notice?--give the country a show?  No.  All of a sudden he heaves
--goodness alive, AUNT POLLY!"
--just like the whole world was asleep, only sometimes the bullfrogs
--let it go.  I reckon it wouldn't do no good."
--most always.  Tell me about it."
--mud as black as tar and nigh about a foot deep in some places, and two
--obsequies bein' the common term--but because orgies is the right term.
--or the likes of you."
--rafts; sometimes you could hear a sweep screaking; or jumbled up voices,
--regular dead-beats.  There, now we're over the worst of it, you can stand
--so as to get them to let Miss Mary Jane go aboard?  Now YOU know he
--tell them you've thought of something.  If you get here before eleven put
--that's the one that gives herself to good works and has a hare-lip."
--that's what I'D do.  Who ever heard of a state prisoner escaping by a
--that's what it is; and if you don't look clost, you can't see it.  NOW
--there must a been twenty of them--and every lady with a lovely
--tragedy, you know; take a turn to mesmerism and phrenology when there's a
--was Jim a runaway nigger?  Says I:
--weeks of it--hours and hours, every night, whilst you was all asleep.
--wouldn't be gone long.  I wished I was out of that tree, but I dasn't
--you couldn't help it; it wasn't your fault.  Where did you hide it?"
--you don't hear nothing; you see that axe go up again, and by the time
1.  Here a captive heart busted. 2.  Here a poor prisoner, forsook by the
1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:
1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
1.E.9.
1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
1.F.
1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
A RAT!"  Then he drooped down and glided along the wall again to his
A little smoke couldn't be noticed now, so we would take some fish off of
A nigger woman come tearing out of the kitchen with a rolling-pin in her
AIN'T him, are you?"
AND EDMUND KEAN THE ELDER!
ANYBODY sqush to get fetched such a solid one as that without any notice,
AS soon as we reckoned everybody was asleep that night we went down the
AT THE COURT HOUSE! FOR 3 NIGHTS ONLY!
About the middle of the afternoon a couple of little boats come along,
Admission 25 cents; children and servants, 10 cents.
Admission 50 cents.
After about a half a minute the king drawls out:
After breakfast the king he took a seat on the corner of the raft, and
After dinner the duke says:
After midnight the people on shore went to bed, and then for two or three
Ah, it's sublime, sublime!  Always fetches the house.  I haven't got it
All of a sudden the lightning let go a perfect sluice of white glare, and
All of a sudden, bang! bang! bang! goes three or four guns--the men had
All the loafers looked glad; I reckoned they was used to having fun out
All the stores was along one street.  They had white domestic awnings in
All the streets and lanes was just mud; they warn't nothing else BUT mud
Along during the morning I borrowed a sheet and a white shirt off of the
Also: (by special request) Hamlet's Immortal Soliloquy ! !
Also: The thrilling, masterly, and blood-curdling
Amighty fogive po' ole Jim, kaze he never gwyne to fogive hisself as
And I DID start to tell him; but he shut me up, and says:
And I've pegged along ever since, dry as a powder-horn.  Where's that ten
And Tom he turned his head a little, and muttered something or other,
And at last they took a change and begun to lay their heads together in
And behind the woman comes a little nigger girl and two little nigger
And by and by a drunk man tried to get into the ring--said he wanted to
And everybody runs to see, and she snatches off my hat, and out comes the
And he nailed that shingle to a lath, and stood the lath up four or five
And he said, what he had planned in his head from the start, if we got
And his Aunt Polly she said Tom was right about old Miss Watson setting
And in the forenoon we took it down to the woods, but it wouldn't go into
And it 'll be the third I've made in two years.  It just keeps a body on
And it didn't.  He told me what it was, and I see in a minute it was
And leave my sisters with them?"
And so did I. It was Tom Sawyer on a mattress; and that old doctor; and
And so he went a-mooning on and on, liking to hear himself talk, and
And so he went on a-mumbling up stairs, and then we left.  He was a
And so he went on, calling Sherburn everything he could lay his tongue
And so it makes it so rotten difficult to get up a difficult plan.  There
And so on.  You couldn't make out what the preacher said any more, on
And somebody trotting along with the gang would answer back and say:
And the boy being in a kind of a flighty sleep, too, we muffled the oars
And the minute the words were out of his mouth somebody over in the crowd
And the place was plum full of farmers and farmers' wives, to dinner; and
And then Tom he talked along and talked along, and says, le's all three
And then faster and faster they went, all of them dancing, first one foot
And then he busted into tears, and so did everybody.  Then somebody sings
And then think of ME!  It would get all around that Huck Finn helped a
And then when I went up to bed she come up with me and fetched her
And twice I went down the rod away in the night, and slipped around
And we had to steal candles, and the sheet, and the shirt, and your
And when it was all done me and the hare-lip had supper in the kitchen
And when she come she was hot and red and cross, and couldn't hardly wait
And whilst we was a-standing there in the dimmish light, here comes a
Another one says, "I wisht old Boggs 'd threaten me, 'cuz then I'd know I
Anyhow, there's one thing--there's more honor in getting him out
Arkansaw lunkheads couldn't come up to Shakespeare; what they wanted was
Armand de Montalban, of Paris," would "lecture on the Science of
As they was starting down the ladder the duke he chuckles again, and
As we went by our house I wished I hadn't sent Mary Jane out of town;
Assisted by the whole strength of the company!
At last I had an idea; and I says, I'll go and write the letter--and then
At last she come and begun to ask me questions, but I COULDN'T answer
At last they got out the coffin and begun to unscrew the lid, and then
Aunt Polly she turns around slow and severe, and says:
Aunt Sally jumped for her, and most hugged the head off of her, and cried
Aunt Sally she was one of the mixed-upest-looking persons I ever see
BY and by it was getting-up time.  So I come down the ladder and started
Bartley, and--well, there's a lot of them; but these are the ones that
Because, you know, when you get scared that way, and it keeps running on,
Bell, the lawyer; and Dr. Robinson, and their wives, and the widow
Besides, you know, you'll be in costume, and that makes all the
Betwixt the hut and the fence, on the back side, was a lean-to that
Beware.  Trouble is brewing.  Keep a sharp lookout. UNKNOWN FRIEND.
Bilgewater, and so what's the use o' your bein' sour?  It 'll only make
Blamed if the king didn't have to brace up mighty quick, or he'd a
Blest if I kin see de pint.  But I'll do it ef I got to.  I reck'n I
Boggs comes a-tearing along on his horse, whooping and yelling like an
Boggs rode up before the biggest store in town, and bent his head down so
Both of them gave a little jump, and looked like they hadn't ever
Both of them spoke up again, and says:
Both of them spoke up and says:
Brer Phelps, his own self.  S'e, what do YOU think of it, Sister
Bricksville and say they've got the men that played the Royal Nonesuch,
Broad-sword conflict In Richard III. ! ! !
Broken'--that's the thing that 'll scoop a rat quicker 'n anything else;
Buck's face, for he was mighty good to me.
Buck, and Hank, and Joe, and Andy, and talked lazy and drawly, and used
But I couldn't set still long.  Pretty soon I went out on the road,
But I didn't want to run the raft in the daytime without anybody aboard
But I had plenty time.  Aunt Sally she stuck to the sick-room all day and
But I kept at him; so at last he says:
But I knowed better.  I had it out of there before they was half-way down
But Tom, he WAS so proud and joyful, he just COULDN'T hold in, and his
But by and by the thing dragged through, and everything was sold
But he never heard me.  He had forgot me and everything else.  He had his
But he put his foot on the gunnel and rocked her, and shook his head, and
But he said it warn't no use, nothing but to be dead and done with it all
But he was sleeping, and sleeping very peaceful, too; and pale, not
But if they was joyful, it warn't nothing to what I was; for it was like
But it didn't save him.  Yes, it was mortification--that was it.  He
But it warn't surprising; because he warn't only just a farmer, he was a
But it's gone, that's the long and the short of it, and you'll just have
But me and Jim was consulting--and thinking.  And after we'd thought a
But she was on my mind and Tom was on my mind, so I slept very restless.
But that pie was a job; we had no end of trouble with that pie.  We fixed
But the old man got pretty silent by and by--didn't have much to say, and
But then we heard the tramp of men coming to the door, and heard them
But there warn't no answer, and nobody come out of the wigwam.  Jim was
But they ducked their heads, and put their fingers in their mouths, and
But this time I somehow got to talking to him about his wife and young
But up till then I won't say nothing more, but go to the hotel and wait."
But we didn't answer; we just unfurled our heels and shoved.  Then there
But we didn't need it.  All we needed was just enough for the pie,
By The Illustrious Kean! Done by him 300 consecutive nights in Paris!
By and by he got it.  He told us to give attention.  Then he strikes a
By and by the men stopped cavorting around and yelling.  They started
By jings, I most slumped through the floor!  But there warn't no time to
CHAPTER THE LAST
CHAPTER XIX.
CHAPTER XL.
CHAPTER XLI.
CHAPTER XLII.
CHAPTER XX.
CHAPTER XXI.
CHAPTER XXII.
CHAPTER XXIII.
CHAPTER XXIV.
CHAPTER XXIX.
CHAPTER XXV.
CHAPTER XXVI.
CHAPTER XXVII.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
CHAPTER XXX.
CHAPTER XXXI.
CHAPTER XXXII.
CHAPTER XXXIII.
CHAPTER XXXIV.
CHAPTER XXXIX.
CHAPTER XXXV.
CHAPTER XXXVI.
CHAPTER XXXVII.
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
CIRCUMSTANCES!"
COULD think of so many of them, and so sudden and so pat, was what I
Children, don't you say a word."
Colonel Sherburn he tossed his pistol on to the ground, and turned around
Come in, come in."
Come right in."
Complete, by Mark Twain (Samuel Clemens)
Continental Theatres,
Continental Theatres, in their sublime Shaksperean Spectacle entitled
Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
DAMAGE.
DAVID GARRICK THE YOUNGER!
DOCTOR!" and Abner Shackleford says:
DON'T git mad; didn't you have it in your mind to hook the money and hide
Damrell?--s'I, he's crazy, s'I--them's the very words I said.  You all
Den I went into de yuther room, en 'uz gone 'bout ten minutes; en when I
Don't betray me, I wish to be your friend.  There is a desprate gang of
Don't you reckon I know who hid that money in that coffin?"
Dunsinane, But that the fear of something after death Murders the
Edmund Kean the Elder, which was to play the main principal part in it;
End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn,
England with William the Conqueror in the Mayflower or one of them early
Englishman, DON'T you?  It's the worst imitation I ever heard.  YOU Peter
Everybody agreed to that.  So I judged they had our gang in a pretty
Everybody made a rush for the front door, because, of course, a stranger
Everything was all right now.  The girls wouldn't say nothing because
FIRST. Who nailed him?"
FLASH comes the light in Mary Jane's window! and my heart swelled up
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
First they done a lecture on temperance; but they didn't make enough for
For One Night Only!
For One Night Only, On account of imperative European engagements!
For additional contact information:
Foundation
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.
GIVE them notice there won't be nobody nor nothing to interfere with us,
GLORY HALLELUJAH!)
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.
Gutenberg-tm License.
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
HE was dead, too, and done with it all.
HIM up and take him into slavery again.  Says he:
HIMSELF awhile, and said it all come of him not laying late and taking
HUCK FINN.
Hain't you got no principle at all?"
Hare-lip hark from the tomb!
Harkness, there--shouts 'Lynch him! lynch him!' you're afraid to back
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Harvey and William, and told where the six thousand cash was hid down
Harvey's feelings and the poor girl's feelings, and all that.  But it
He asked the king where he was going, and the king told him he'd come
He broke off there, because we heard the breakfast-horn blowing.  So we
He come back about ten a little bit uneasy; hadn't run across Tom's
He got out two or three curtain-calico suits, which he said was meedyevil
He got up and looked distressed, and fumbled his hat, and says:
He had his own by him, but I handed him mine.  He flung it down, and
He looked kind of humble, and says:
He looked kind of hurt, and says:
He looked kind of weary and discouraged-like, and says:
He looked kinder bothered, and stood there with his bills fluttering on
He never said nothing.  But he sighed, and pretty soon he stopped
He only just looked scornful, and said something about nobody ever heard
He run off f'm down South, som'ers."
He said if he ever got out this time he wouldn't ever be a prisoner
He said it showed it was done right.
He said it was the best fun he ever had in his life, and the most
He said that would do.  And that gave him another idea, and he says:
He says:
He says:
He see me, and rode up and says:
He sprung to the window at the head of the bed, and that give Mrs. Phelps
He stopped and went to studying.  I says:
He stopped, but I never see the duke look so ugly out of his eyes before.
He turns around and begins to make a lot of signs to the duke with his
He turns on me, looking pitying enough to make a body cry, and says:
He was always just that particular.  Full of principle.
He was drunk, and weaving about in his saddle; he was over fifty year
He was quiet, and looked uneasy; and he warn't hanging back any, but was
He was standing perfectly still in the street, and had a pistol raised in
He was the WORST I ever struck.  Well, the iron-jawed man he laughed
He was the softest, glidingest, stealthiest man I ever see; and there
He was uncommon bright, the duke was, and he soon struck it.  He dressed
He'd got all that coat of arms business fixed, so now he started in to
Here, I'll lock some of you into the cabin, and you lay for 'em in the
Hicksville, Ohio, and his name was William Thompson--and he made another
Hines let out a whoop, like everybody else, and dropped my wrist and give
His eye lit up, and he says:
His eyes just blazed; and he says:
Hotchkiss, s'e? Think o' what, Brer Phelps, s'I?  Think o' that bed-leg
How does that strike you?"
Huck Finn."
Huckleberry; we'll come down to the village on her."
I CREPT to their doors and listened; they was snoring.  So I tiptoed
I WAS scared, now, I tell you.  But there warn't no getting away, you
I allowed another walk would do me good; but I couldn't stir.  But before
I asked her to let me think a minute; and she set there, very impatient
I begin to go slow.  I 'uz off too fur to hear what dey say to you--I wuz
I can see now why you was so anxious to make up the deffisit--you wanted
I can't imitate him, and so I ain't a-going to try to; but he really done
I could do to keep from crying.
I couldn't bear to think about it; and yet, somehow, I couldn't think
I couldn't think of anything reasonable, right off that way, so I says:
I did wish Aunt Sally would come, and get done with me, and lick me, if
I didn't care nothing for the compliment, but I was glad to be let off,
I didn't do it pretty good, and when I got done I see she warn't
I didn't have none, so he left.  I went to the raft, and set down in the
I didn't have to be ordered twice to go and take a steamboat ride.  I
I didn't know just what to do--but then I thought.  I scratched around
I didn't rightly know what to say, because I didn't know whether the boat
I didn't want to set her to thinking about her troubles again; and I
I don't want to talk much about the next day.  I reckon I'll cut it
I done it, and he done the same.  We struck the raft at the same time,
I done so, and then we all three started on again.  The young chap was
I ever struck;" but he never paid no attention to me; went right on.  It
I felt good and all washed clean of sin for the first time I had ever
I followed a half a mile; then he struck out over the swamp, and waded
I followed the men to see what they was going to do with Jim; and the old
I found Jim had been trying to get him to talk French, so he could hear
I go to that doctor, private, and blow on these frauds?  No--that won't
I got to steal it some way that they won't suspicion that I done it.
I got to turn out and find my nigger."
I had a couple of patients with the chills, and of course I'd of liked to
I had considerable money, so I give him ten cents, but begged him to
I had just one little glimpse of the old gentleman when he come in; then
I had the middle watch, you know, but I was pretty sleepy by that time,
I had the road all to myself, and I fairly flew--leastways, I had it all
I hunched Tom, and whispers:
I judged we had got everything fixed about right now.  So I says:
I just knowed how it would be; I just expected it.  I didn't know nothing
I knowed for certain I wished I was dead--for that IS the lonesomest
I knowed he was white inside, and I reckoned he'd say what he did say--so
I knowed it.  I studied a minute, sort of holding my breath, and then
I left it alone.
I looked over there to see who said it, and it was that Colonel Sherburn.
I motioned them in quiet, and they slipped up on him and grabbed him and
I never felt easy till the raft was two mile below there and out in the
I never said nothing, because I warn't expecting nothing different; but I
I never see a likelier lot of rats than what that first haul was.
I never see nothing like it.  Well, I says to myself at last, I'm a-going
I out with a "Yes'm" before I thought.
I reckon, and I said I wouldn't swallow it all; and that's every bit and
I reckoned she'd let me go now, and as a generl thing she would; but I
I reckoned the poor king was in for a gaudy time of it with the audience,
I s'pose I must say, as I'm one o' the Lord's poor servants.  But still
I said I had got it on the boat.  So then she started for the house,
I said, "Don't do nothing of the kind; it's one of the most jackass ideas
I says to myself, THIS is a girl that I'm letting that old reptle rob her
I says to myself, here's another place where I got to resk the truth.  I
I says to myself, this is ANOTHER one that I'm letting him rob her of her
I says yes; and him and some others laughed, and said, "Stuff!"
I says, I needed the watermelon.  But he said I didn't need it to get out
I says:
I says:
I says:
I says:
I says:
I says:
I says:
I see I had spoke too sudden and said too much, and was in a close place.
I see I was in a fix now.  But it warn't no use to worry; there warn't
I see I was up a stump.  I had to let on to get choked with a chicken
I see Mary Jane setting by her old hair trunk, which was open and she'd
I see it warn't nothing but a dictionary, so I laid my hand on it and
I see my chance; so I skips up and says:
I see what HE was up to; but I never said nothing, of course.  When I got
I see.
I seen where one of the bullets went in.  He made about a dozen long
I slipped up to bed, feeling ruther blue, on accounts of the thing
I stayed in the tree till it begun to get dark, afraid to come down.
I struck an idea pretty soon.  I says to myself, spos'n he can't fix that
I studied awhile and see my chance; then I says:
I tell you dat.  I never knowed b'fo' 't was so much bother and trouble
I took the watch, and Jim he laid down and snored away; and by and by the
I took up the river road as hard as I could put.  By and by I begin to
I waked him up, and I reckoned it was going to be a grand surprise to him
I want to ask you--if you got any reasonableness in you at all--what kind
I wanted to offer to bet two dollars she hadn't, but I reckoned maybe it
I warn't goin' to do it, because I WAS; but you--I mean somebody--got in
I was getting so uneasy I couldn't listen good.  I had my mind on the
I was going to say yes; but she chipped in and says:  "About what, Sid?"
I was so scared.  Well, I tried the best I could to kinder soften it up
I was up stairs in a second, and down the lightning-rod in another one,
I was very glad to hear him say that; it made me feel much more easier
I went around and clumb over the back stile by the ash-hopper, and
I went off down to the river, studying over this thing, and pretty soon I
I went on a-whimpering, and says:
I went right along, not fixing up any particular plan, but just trusting
I went to sleep, and Jim didn't call me when it was my turn.  He often
I went to the circus and loafed around the back side till the watchman
I will!"
I would do the right thing and the clean thing, and go and write to that
I'd a heard her if she'd a said it to herself, let alone speaking it out;
I'd get mixed up in the business before it was done with, I judge.  No;
I'd give something to know how much they'd take for it.  I WOULD just
I'd hang him."  And whilst the nigger stepped to the door to look at the
I'd noticed that Providence always did put the right words in my mouth if
I'd trust you.  Why, if you WAS to blow on us--"
I'll do it."
I'll go and see; and if the Testament is where I had it, I'll know I
I'll go and stuff the straw into Jim's clothes to represent his mother in
I'll tell Miss Susan to give your love to your uncles and say you've went
I'm a-going to dig that nigger or that watermelon or that Sunday-school
I'm away down the river, I'll write a letter and tell Mary Jane where
I'm jist as able to be sorry for Mr. Wilks for not arriving in time, all
I's seed 'm befo'; I don't k'yer to see 'em no mo'."
I've been killed, and floated down the river--there's something up there
I've knowed him all his life, and so has Tom, there.  Old Miss Watson
IN the morning we went up to the village and bought a wire rat-trap and
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
IT was after sun-up now, but we went right on and didn't tie up.  The
IT would be most an hour yet till breakfast, so we left and struck down
ITSELF off, s'I--somebody SAWED it, s'I; that's my opinion, take it or
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
If she warn't standing right there, just inside the door, looking as
If we get time, the night of the escape, we'll dig one."
If you don't hitch on to one tooth, you're bound to on another, ain't
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
In about five or ten minutes here comes Boggs again, but not on his
In about half an hour Tom's wagon drove up to the front stile, and Aunt
In the South one man all by himself, has stopped a stage full of men in
In the morning we was up at break of day, and down to the nigger cabins
In the morning we went out to the woodpile and chopped up the brass
In their Thrilling Tragedy of
Indeed he wouldn't.  Said it warn't no fair test.  Said his brother
Indian Ocean--and his crew was thinned out considerable last spring in
Injun file, and got to it all right, and me and Jim over it; but Tom's
Injun, and singing out:
Injuns, and everything had to clear the way or get run over and tromped
International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
Is Mary Jane the oldest?  How old is the others?"
It ain't regular."
It didn't take me long to make up my mind that these liars warn't no
It jolted her up like everything, of course; but I was over the shoal
It made me shiver.  And I about made up my mind to pray, and see if I
It made my eyes water a little to remember her crying there all by
It most busted them, but they made up the six thousand clean and clear.
It takes up more room than all the rest of a person's insides, and yet
It warn't no slouch of an idea; and it warn't no slouch of a grindstone
It was Jim's voice--nothing ever sounded so good before.  I run along the
It was a canoe, and warn't fastened with nothing but a rope.  The towhead
It was a close place.  I took it up, and held it in my hand.  I was
It was a real bully circus.  It was the splendidest sight that ever was
It was all she could do to hold in; and her eyes snapped, and her fingers
It was awful thoughts and awful words, but they was said.  And I let them
It was hurting him considerable, and bleeding; so we laid him in the
It was just dark now.  I never went near the house, but struck through
It was kinder thin ice, but I says:
It was me he pointed at.  The doctor says:
It was nuts for the crowd, though maybe not for the king's friends; so we
It's lovely to live on a raft.  We had the sky up there, all speckled
It's the way they all do."
It's the way they're raised."
JIM gywne to say it?  No, sah--I doan' budge a step out'n dis place 'dout
Jane was off working for the auction than around in reach of Doctor
Jeruslem or somewheres. But not long, because she says:
Jim and me got uneasy.  We didn't like the look of it.  We judged they
Jim and me was in a sweat again for a minute, being afraid there was
Jim done, and making such a raft of trouble, and keeping a whole family
Jim free in her will; and so, sure enough, Tom Sawyer had gone and took
Jim had plenty corn-cob pipes and tobacco; so we had a right down good
Jim lit out, and was a-coming for me with both arms spread, he was so
Jim only had time to grab us by the hand and squeeze it; then the nigger
Jim out all safe, was for us to run him down the river on the raft, and
Jim pitied him ever so much, and so did I. We tried to comfort him, but
Jim said I better go along with them in the canoe and get some.
Jim said it was so; and the king told him to shut up, and said, "Oh, yes,
Jim said the rock was worse than the logs; he said it would take him such
Jim says, kind of solemn:
Jim says:
Jim snoring; so we pitched it in, and it didn't wake him.  Then we
Jim that was being fed.  The niggers was just getting through breakfast
Jim to get away from the swamp.  We said there warn't no home like a
Jim up in King Lear's outfit--it was a long curtain-calico gown, and a
Jim's eyes bugged out when he heard that; and I reckon mine did, too.
Jim, in HER calico dress, with his hands tied behind him; and a lot of
Jim."
Jim; and then you kept Tom here so long with the butter in his hat that
Joanner, take the money--take it ALL.  It's the gift of him that lays
Joe (that was the other young chap) would make up for this day yet.  He
Juliet..................Mr. Kean
Just then Sherburn steps out on to the roof of his little front porch,
LADIES AND CHILDREN NOT ADMITTED.
LEAVE, dat's SHORE."
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
Lally Rook, and she blowed out a cylinder-head and crippled a man.  And I
Lane, London."  In other bills he had a lot of other names and done other
Laws knows I WANTED to go bad enough to see about Tom, and was all
Laws, it was out before I could think!  And before I could budge she
Laying her silky hand on mine in that kind of a way that I said I would
Lear and a drownded A-rab all in one, and it most scared the livers and
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
Literary Archive Foundation
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
Lize?"
Look at them case-knife saws and things, how tedious they've been made;
Looky here--do you think YOU'D venture to blow on us?  Blamed if I think
Lordship"--and he wouldn't mind it if we called him plain
Louis XIV.
Louis or Cincinnati, or some other big place.  Go for the steamboat,
Louisville; and another one was a big rough husky that come along and
MAKING them pens was a distressid tough job, and so was the saw; and Jim
MAN at the head of it is BENEATH pitifulness.  Now the thing for YOU to
MAN?  Why, a MAN'S safe in the hands of ten thousand of your kind--as
MURREY in the fess, with a dog, couchant, for common charge, and under
Mars Tom Sawyer?  Would he say dat?  You BET he wouldn't!  WELL, den, is
Mars Tom, I's willin' to tackle mos' anything 'at ain't onreasonable, but
Mary Jane or not? S'pose she dug him up and didn't find nothing, what
Mary Jane she went for him, Susan and the hare-lip went for the duke, and
Mary Jane straightened herself up, and my, but she was handsome!  She
Mary Jane, and she could dig him up again and get it; but that ain't the
Maybe Bill he gives him a chaw; maybe he lies and says he ain't got none.
Miss Sophia.  He said they'd got across the river and was safe.  I was
Miss Watson, your runaway nigger Jim is down here two mile below
Most everybody would a been satisfied with the pile, and took it on
Mr. Ben Rucker, and Abner Shackleford, and Levi Bell, and Dr. Robinson,
Mrs. Damrell; "what in the name o' goodness COULD he ever want of--"
My heart fell down amongst my lungs and livers and things, and a hard
My, but there was a crowd there!  Fifteen farmers, and every one of them
NEXT day, towards night, we laid up under a little willow towhead out in
NIGGER-STEALER!
NO.  And ther' ain't no sense in THIS, nuther.  Is it ketching?"
NOBODY don't know but me.  And that is, there's a nigger here that I'm
NOW you see what you GOT by it.  They've got all their own money back,
Nat didn't look when we put the witch pie in Jim's pan; and we put the
New costumes, new scenes, new appointments!
Next day Tom stole a pewter spoon and a brass candlestick in the house,
Next day was auction day.  About broad day in the morning the king and
Next day you couldn't hear nothing around that town but how splendid that
Next morning I heard Tom was a good deal better, and they said Aunt Sally
Next morning, 'Chop off her head!'  And they chop it off.  'Fetch up Jane
Next night we stuck a picture, which Tom drawed in blood, of a skull and
No light there; the house all dark--which made me feel sorry and
No, they allowed he wouldn't.  I had to account for things some way, so I
Nobody never said anything for a while; then the young man hove a sigh
Nonesuch, Bricksville.'  Put it away, and don't lose it.  When the court
Northumberland!  Why, Huck, s'pose it IS considerble trouble?--what you
Now I was feeling pretty comfortable all down one side, and pretty
OR THE ROYAL NONESUCH ! ! !
ORGO, outside, open, abroad; and the Hebrew JEESUM, to plant, cover up;
OTTO.  Got it out of a book--means the more haste the less speed."
OUR nigger; yes, we did consider him so--goodness knows we had trouble
Obsequies ain't used in England no more now--it's gone out.  We say
Of course there warn't nothing to be said but the one thing; so I says:
Of the London and
Oh, this is the boss dodge, ther' ain't no mistake 'bout it.  Let 'em
On the river front some of the houses was sticking out over the bank, and
On the road Tom he told me all about how it was reckoned I was murdered,
Once I said to myself it would be a thousand times better for Jim to be a
Once or twice of a night we would see a steamboat slipping along in the
One morning about daybreak I found a canoe and crossed over a chute to
One of the boys was Buck, and the other was a slim young chap about
One of these fellows was about seventy or upwards, and had a bald head
Our hole was pretty big, but it warn't big enough to get the grindstone
PHELPS!"
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK
PLEASE!  There's one way yet--let's go and dig up the corpse and look."
PRETTY howdy-do, WOULDN'T it!  I never heard of such a thing."
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
Peter was thickest with, and used to write about sometimes, when he wrote
Peter's business--which was a tanner; and about George's--which was a
Phelps kept it up and run on so.  Pretty soon she made the cold chills
Phelps' was one of these little one-horse cotton plantations, and they
Phrenology" at such and such a place, on the blank day of blank, at ten
Pikesville, and Mr. Phelps has got him and he will give him up for the
Pitchiola--that's its right name when it's in a prison.  And you want to
Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
Pray for me!  I reckoned if she knowed me she'd take a job that was more
Proctors, but only about the Apthorps--which 'll be perfectly true,
Produced by David Widger. Previous editions produced by Ron Burkey
Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.
Rev. Hobson and Dr. Robinson was down to the end of the town a-hunting
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
Richard III.............Mr. Garrick
Richard III.; and the way they laid on and pranced around the raft was
Richmond................Mr. Kean
Robinson.  I felt very good; I judged I had done it pretty neat--I
Romeo...................Mr. Garrick
Rot him, I forgot he was a preacher.  I see I was up a stump again, so I
Royal Nonesuch rapscallions, and as much of the raft voyage as I had time
Royalty?"
S'pose he opened his mouth--what then?  If he didn't shut it up powerful
SEE that THEY'D go and tell?  Ther' ain't no way but just to not tell
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
SID had come all right and safe, she says to herself:
SO I started for town in the wagon, and when I was half-way I see a wagon
Sally she see it through the window, because it was only about fifty
Sally with a candle, and I clapped the truck in my hat, and clapped my
Sally's apron-pocket which was hanging on a chair, and t'other we stuck
Sawyer family--than ever happened to any six Sawyer families.  And I
Sawyer--'"
Saying them words put a good idea in my head.  I see how maybe I could
Says I to myself, I can explain better how we come to not be in that room
Says I to myself, and this is ANOTHER one that I'm letting him rob her of
Says I, kind of timid-like:
Says I:
Says he:
Second, and Richard Third, and forty more; besides all them Saxon
Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm
Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
Several of them jumped for him and begged him not to talk that way to an
Shaksperean Revival ! ! !
She WAS the best girl I ever see, and had the most sand.
She done it, too; and she done it beautiful.  She done it so beautiful it
She grabbed me and hugged me tight; and then gripped me by both hands and
She looked out of all patience, but of course she come to count--anybody
She says:
Sherburn as loud as he could yell, all down the street; and pretty soon
Sherburn never said a word--just stood there, looking down.  The
Shore,' he says; and up she comes, Next morning, 'Chop off her head'--and
Sick Arab--but harmless when not out of his head.
Silas and Aunt Sally found out how good he helped the doctor nurse Tom,
Silas he trusts everybody; sends the key to the punkin-headed nigger, and
Sixteen and Marry Antonette."
So I done it.  But not feeling brash.
So I held on till all the late sounds had quit and the early ones hadn't
So I left, and struck for the back country.  I didn't look around, but I
So I promised, and he says:
So I said I would, and left, and Jim was to hide in the woods when he see
So I slipped back the one I had, and when she got done counting, she
So I smouched one, and they come out nine, same as the other time.  Well,
So I was full of trouble, full as I could be; and didn't know what to do.
So I wilted right down on to the planks then, and give up; and it was all
So I wrote:  "I put it in the coffin.  It was in there when you was
So Mary Jane took us up, and she showed them their rooms, which was plain
So Tom he thanked them very hearty and handsome, and let himself be
So Tom he wrote the nonnamous letter, and I smouched the yaller wench's
So Tom said, now for the nonnamous letters.
So Tom turns to the nigger, which was looking wild and distressed, and
So Tom was stumped.  But he studied it over, and then said Jim would have
So he done it.
So he done it; and it satisfied him; and he was that glad to see me again
So he glided along, and the powwow and racket getting more and more
So he laughed again; and so did everybody else, except three or four, or
So he lit up his lantern, and got his saddle-bags, and we started.  But
So he rummaged his pockets, and then went off somewheres where he had
So he said, now for the grand bulge!  So the very next morning at the
So he says:
So he told Jim how we'd have to smuggle in the rope-ladder pie and other
So he went to marching up and down, thinking, and frowning horrible every
So here they come, full tilt.  We could hear them because they wore boots
So him and the new dummy started off; and the king he laughs, and
So in they come, but couldn't see us in the dark, and most trod on us
So in two seconds away we went a-sliding down the river, and it DID seem
So out he went, and down cellar went I. The hunk of butter, big as a
So she didn't lose no time, but asked him; and hugged him and kissed him
So she done it.  And it was the niggers--I just expected it.  She said
So she went away as I opened the door and walked into the setting-room.
So somebody started on a run.  I walked down street a ways and stopped.
So the duke he told him all about who Romeo was and who Juliet was, and
So the king he blattered along, and managed to inquire about pretty much
So the king let go of me, and begun to cuss that town and everybody in
So the king sneaked into the wigwam and took to his bottle for comfort,
So the king went all through the crowd with his hat swabbing his eyes,
So the next day after the funeral, along about noon-time, the girls' joy
So then I crept into a lumber-pile to get some sleep; and next time I
So then I got a shovel, and then we picked and shoveled, turn about, and
So then I lit out--for bed, I said, meaning some time or another.  When I
So then we went to the post-office to get "Sid"; but just as I
So there it was!--but I couldn't help it.  Tom and me was to sleep in the
So they dug and dug like everything; and it got awful dark, and the rain
So they got ready to go down stairs again.  The duke says:
So they got some paper and a pen, and the king he set down and twisted
So they softened down and said it was all right; and when we got to the
So we poked along back home, and I warn't feeling so brash as I was
So we put the sheet back on the line that night, and stole one out of her
So we set there watching, and by and by he stirs a bit, and opened his
So we stayed where we was.  The duke he fretted and sweated around, and
So we was all right now, as to the shirt and the sheet and the spoon and
So when he sees me getting the canoe ready, he says:
So whilst me and Jim filed away at the pens on a brickbat apiece, Jim
So, drat him, we went along, but I didn't like it much.  When we got in
So, thinks I, I'll go and search them rooms.  Upstairs the hall was dark,
Some day I'll lie down in it and forget it all, and my poor broken heart
Some of them kinds of loafers never has a cent in the world, nor a chaw
Somebody says:
Something was a-brewing, sure.  I was good and glad when midday come and
Sometimes I heard guns away off in the woods; and twice I seen little
Sometimes we'd have that whole river all to ourselves for the longest
Soon as it was night out we shoved; when we got her out to about the
Sophia was to meet Harney somewheres at half-past two and run off; and I
South, and I've lived in the North; so I know the average all around.
States.
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
Store tobacco is flat black plug, but these fellows mostly chaws the
Sudden as winking the ornery old cretur went an to smash, and fell up
Sunday-school book; and if a pick's the handiest thing, that's the thing
Sunday-school, you could a gone to it; and if you'd a done it they'd a
Susan behind her.  "It ain't right nor kind for you to talk so to him,
TELL me that was what you'd been down there for, I wouldn't a cared.  Now
TELL you dey warn't no time los'.  Sich another hurryin' up guns en
TELLING him I see the niggers come out of his room acting that way--said
THAT was all fixed.  So then we went away and went to the rubbage-pile in
THAT'S certain."
THAT--you hear?"  Then he says to the duke, "We got to jest swaller it
THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
THE KING'S CAMELEOPARD,
THE doctor was an old man; a very nice, kind-looking old man when I got
THE first time I catched Tom private I asked him what was his idea, time
THE news was all over town in two minutes, and you could see the people
THE old man was uptown again before breakfast, but couldn't get no track
THEN if I don't turn up it means I'm gone, and out of the way, and safe.
THESE two ain't frauds, I am an idiot, that's all.  I think it's our duty
THEY asked us considerable many questions; wanted to know what we covered
THEY swarmed up towards Sherburn's house, a-whooping and raging like
THEY was fetching a very nice-looking old gentleman along, and a
TOLE you I ben rich wunst, en gwineter to be rich AGIN; en it's come
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
TWO or three days and nights went by; I reckon I might say they swum by,
Territory ahead of the rest, because Aunt Sally she's going to adopt me
That cheered me up.  I'd begun to think I warn't going to get a hint of
That didn't help me much, though; for I didn't know the names of bars
That made me feel pretty bad.  About an hour or two ago it would a been a
That made me squirm!
That night they had a big supper, and all them men and women was there,
That night we went down the lightning-rod a little after ten, and took
That took them.
That was just his way.  If it didn't suit him to explain a thing to you,
That was the order I wanted, and that was the one I played for.  I wanted
That was the thing that was too many for me.  Here was a boy that was
That's all he said, and that's all I said.  It warn't no use to say any
That's all he said.  He was the innocentest, best old soul I ever see.
That's the whole yarn--what's yourn?
The Balcony Scene in Romeo and Juliet ! ! !
The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
The World-Renowned Tragedians
The average man's a coward.  In the North he lets anybody walk over him
The calf got the shirt, I reckon, but the calf never took the spoon,
The crowd washed back sudden, and then broke all apart, and went tearing
The doctor and several said "Shucks!" and I see nobody didn't altogether
The doctor he started to say something, and turns and says:
The doctor he up and says:
The duke allowed it did.  They pawed the yaller-boys, and sifted them
The duke bristles up now, and says:
The duke done it, and Jim and me was pretty glad to see it.  It took away
The duke he grumbled; said the bag of gold was enough, and he didn't want
The duke never said nothing for a little bit; then he says:
The duke said what he was after was a printing-office.  We found it; a
The duke said, leave him alone for that; said he had played a deef and
The duke says yes.  Then there was a fine time.  Everybody sings out,
The duke says, pretty brisk:
The duke says, the same way:
The duke says:
The duke says:
The duke says:
The duke told him, and then says:
The duke was thinking HE'D been doing pretty well till the king come to
The duke went down into his carpet-bag, and fetched up a lot of little
The fences was made of different kinds of boards, nailed on at different
The first chance we got the duke he had some showbills printed; and after
The first shed we come to the preacher was lining out a hymn.  He lined
The king began to gurgle, and then he gasps out:
The king got out an old ratty deck of cards after breakfast, and him and
The king he smiled eager, and shoved out his flapper, and says:
The king he spread his arms, and Mary Jane she jumped for them, and the
The king he visited around in the evening, and sweetened everybody up,
The king kind of ruffles up, and says:
The king said the cubby would do for his valley--meaning me.
The king sassed back as much as was safe for him, and then swapped around
The king says, timid, and still a-snuffling:
The king snarls around on him and says:
The king whirls on me and rips out:
The lawyer and him shook hands, and the lawyer smiled and looked pleased,
The lawyer done it, and says:
The men ripped around awhile, and then rode away.  As soon as they was
The minute I was far enough above the town to see I could make the
The nearer it got to noon that day the thicker and thicker was the wagons
The new old gentleman says:
The new old gentleman turns brisk towards Ab Turner and his pard, and his
The nigger kind of smiled around gradually over his face, like when you
The old gentleman wrote, but nobody couldn't read it.  The lawyer looked
The other fellow was about thirty, and dressed about as ornery.  After
The people most killed themselves laughing; and when the king got done
The people that had seen the thing said he done it perfect; said it was
The person coming was Mary Jane.  She went to the coffin, very soft, and
The pitifulest thing out is a mob; that's what an army is--a mob; they
The preaching was going on under the same kinds of sheds, only they was
The price of the paper was two dollars a year, but he took in three
The thing made a big stir in the town, too, and a good many come out
The third night the house was crammed again--and they warn't new-comers
The world renowned tragedians, David Garrick the Younger, of Drury Lane
Theatre London, and Edmund Kean the elder, of the Royal Haymarket
Theatre, Whitechapel, Pudding Lane, Piccadilly, London, and the Royal
Them rapscallions took in four hundred and sixty-five dollars in that
Then I come back and set down again, and says:
Then I raised a yell.  A voice not twenty-five foot from me says:
Then I set to thinking over how to get at it, and turned over some
Then I struck up the road, and when I passed the mill I see a sign on it,
Then Mary Jane she fetched the letter her father left behind, and the
Then Mary Jane she took another inning, and went in sweet and lovely
Then Susan SHE waltzed in; and if you'll believe me, she did give
Then at the bottom was the biggest line of all, which said:
Then get up my canoe to-morrow night, and fetch my raft over from the
Then he didn't look so joyful, and says:
Then he looks on around the same way to me, and says:
Then he rode on.  I was scared, but a man says:
Then he says, slow and scornful:
Then he says:
Then he says:  "But he done us a good turn with the spoon, anyway,
Then he showed us another little job he'd printed and hadn't charged for,
Then he slopped right along and went away, and pretty soon the trees hid
Then he turns and goes in.  The crowd looked mighty sober; nobody
Then he turns around, blubbering, and makes a lot of idiotic signs to the
Then he turns to Jim, and looks him over like he never see him before,
Then he weaves along again, perfectly ca'm, and goes to dropping in his
Then he went to work on the nigger, coaxing him and petting him, and
Then one of them got on one side of the coffin, and t'other on t'other
Then pretty soon Sherburn sort of laughed; not the pleasant kind, but the
Then she put her arm around the king on one side, and Susan and the
Then the baldhead says:  "No! you can't mean it?"
Then the duke he lets the curtain down, and bows to the people, and says
Then the king begins to work his jaw again, and says how him and his
Then the king he hunched the duke private--I see him do it--and then he
Then the men see them, and jumped on their horses and took out after
Then the old man turns towards the king, and says:
Then the others softened up a little, too, and I was mighty thankful to
Then the people begun to flock in, and the beats and the girls took seats
Then the ringmaster he see how he had been fooled, and he WAS the sickest
Then they come out and locked him up.  I hoped they was going to say he
Then we lit up and had a supper, and the king and the duke fairly laughed
Then we started for the house, and I went in the back door--you only have
Then we took the trunk and put it in my wagon, and he drove off his way
Then we went loafing around town.  The stores and houses was most all
Then you come out and spread the news around, and get these beats
Then, the night you're ready, fetch the leg a kick, down she goes; slip
There was a little one-horse town about three mile down the bend, and
There was a noble good lot of them down cellar, and it took us a whole
There was considerable jawing back, so I slid out, thinking maybe there
There was empty drygoods boxes under the awnings, and loafers roosting on
There was four or five men cavorting around on their horses in the open
There's a gaudy big grindstone down at the mill, and we'll smouch it, and
There's the respect must give us pause: Wake Duncan with thy knocking!  I
These rapscallions wanted to try the Nonesuch again, because there was so
They buried him, and we come back home, and I went to watching faces
They come in and shut the door; and the first thing the duke done was to
They cussed Jim considerble, though, and give him a cuff or two side the
They don't have no less than seventeen."
They done it, and soon as they was aboard I lit out for our towhead, and
They generly had on yellow straw hats most as wide as an umbrella, but
They had borrowed a melodeum--a sick one; and when everything was ready a
They haven't got no conveniences for it."
They said you would, and I thought you would.  But--" He stopped and
They say he was a sight to look at.  Your uncle's been up to the town
They says:
They swarmed up in front of Sherburn's palings as thick as they could jam
They took Boggs to a little drug store, the crowd pressing around just
They was setting around, some of them talking a little, in a low voice,
They was still a minute--thinking; then the king says, kind of
They worried over that awhile, and ransacked all around for it.  Then the
They've got a good thing here, and they ain't a-going to leave till
Thinks I, that's mighty curious; he said that yesterday.  He oughter know
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
This nigger had a good-natured, chuckle-headed face, and his wool was all
To be, or not to be; that is the bare bodkin That makes calamity of so
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
Tom Sawyer comes down on that boat?  And s'pose he steps in here any
Tom Sawyer."
Tom give him a dime, and said we wouldn't tell nobody; and told him to
Tom he took a look back over his shoulder, and says, "Too late--he's out
Tom looks at me very grave, and says:
Tom on the constant watch day AND night, as I was a-telling you, and not
Tom rose square up in bed, with his eye hot, and his nostrils opening and
Tom said he would let me help him do it.  Then he took a look to see how
Tom said so himself. Jim he never let on but what it was only just a
Tom said that what he meant was, we could steal anything we NEEDED. Well,
Tom said the same.  But as I was saying, we'd got all the work done now,
Tom said.
Tom says, in a puzzled-up kind of way:
Tom says:
Tom says:
Tom says:
Tom thought a minute or two, and says:
Tom waited to think it over, and see if there wasn't nothing else; and
Tom was a good deal bothered about what to do for a spoon, but he said
Tom's most well now, and got his bullet around his neck on a watch-guard
Tom's voice trembled whilst he was reading them, and he most broke down.
Tom, I reck'n, but she wouldn't be wuth half de trouble she'd coss."
Tom, and I'll dig out for the island right off.  So away I shoved, and
Towards night it begun to darken up and look like rain; the heat
Towards the middle of the day the undertaker come with his man, and they
Twenty people sings out:
US, d'ye hear?"
Uncle Silas come in every day or two to pray with him, and Aunt Sally
Uncle Silas he says:
Uncle William, and she'd give her own room to Uncle Harvey, which was a
Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
Utterback, 'n' she'll tell you so herself.  Sh-she, look at that-air rag
Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
WE dasn't stop again at any town for days and days; kept right along down
WE stopped talking, and got to thinking.  By and by Tom says:
WE was feeling pretty good after breakfast, and took my canoe and went
WELL, all day him and the king was hard at it, rigging up a stage and a
WELL, when they was all gone the king he asks Mary Jane how they was off
WHEN I got there it was all still and Sunday-like, and hot and sunshiny;
WHEN they got aboard the king went for me, and shook me by the collar,
Watson where he was.  But I soon give up that notion for two things:
We all got in a big room in the hotel, and lit up some candles, and
We all said the duke was pretty smart, and there couldn't be no trouble
We been expecting you a couple of days and more.  What kep' you?--boat
We could see pretty well now.  Tom he looked at the nigger, steady and
We got a licking every time one of our snakes come in her way, and she
We got a splendid stock of sorted spiders, and bugs, and frogs, and
We got away as soon as it was good and dark.  The king told us to stand
We got there in about a half an hour fairly dripping, for it was a most
We had Jim out of the chains in no time, and when Aunt Polly and Uncle
We had dinner out in that broad open passage betwixt the house and the
We laid low and kept still, and never shoved out till nearly ten o'clock;
We never showed a light till we was about ten mile below the village.
We see we was too late--couldn't do no good.  We asked some stragglers
We struck it mighty lucky; there was going to be a circus there that
We used to watch the stars that fell, too, and see them streak down.  Jim
We was all glad as we could be, but Tom was the gladdest of all because
We'll let it alone for to-day, because of course we don't want to go by
Wednesday, for Ryo Janeero, where my uncle lives."
Well, Aunt Polly she said that when Aunt Sally wrote to her that Tom and
Well, I couldn't HAVE it that way; it wouldn't do at all.  I must go up
Well, I felt sheepish enough to be took in so, but I wouldn't a been in
Well, I gets up, a-wondering, and goes down stairs--nobody around;
Well, I let go all holts then, like I was shot.  It was the most
Well, I never see anything like that old blister for clean out-and-out
Well, I see I was up a stump--and up it good.  Providence had stood by me
Well, I was gone up again.  I forgot I was the old man's servant.  But
Well, Mary Jane she lit out the back way, I reckon; because nobody see
Well, all through the circus they done the most astonishing things; and
Well, as I was saying, we waited that morning till everybody was settled
Well, blamed if the king didn't bill the house and the niggers and all
Well, by and by somebody said Sherburn ought to be lynched.  In about a
Well, by and by the king he gets up and comes forward a little, and works
Well, by the end of three weeks everything was in pretty good shape.  The
Well, everybody WAS in a state of mind now, and they sings out:
Well, he cried and took on so that me and Jim didn't know hardly what to
Well, he run on, and on, and on, making up stuff about Hicksville and
Well, he warn't there to supper; so right after supper uncle went.
Well, how they all took on!  They crowded around the doctor and tried to
Well, next they got out a couple of long swords that the duke made out of
Well, one thing was dead sure, and that was that Tom Sawyer was in
Well, pretty soon the whole town was there, squirming and scrouging and
Well, she was just a-biling.  I begun to lay for a chance; I reckoned I
Well, that night we had OUR show; but there warn't only about twelve
Well, that was all easy, so we done it.  All through dinner Jim stood
Well, the first I knowed the king got a-going, and you could hear him
Well, the funeral sermon was very good, but pison long and tiresome; and
Well, the king he talked him blind; so at last he give in, and said all
Well, the men gathered around and sympathized with them, and said all
Well, the old man he liked that speech, and he mighty soon got it so he
Well, the old man went on asking questions till he just fairly emptied
Well, then they sailed in on the general investigation, and there we had
Well, then, pretty soon all hands got to talking about the diseased
Well, there's others can do that better than what I can, and they're
Well, they held the auction in the public square, along towards the end
Well, we swarmed along down the river road, just carrying on like
Well, what do you think?  That muleheaded old fool wouldn't give in THEN!
Wellington.  Well, what did he do?  Ask him to show up?  No--drownded
Whack comes the thimble, and the child snatches her claws out of the
What a head for just a boy to have!  If I had Tom Sawyer's head I
What is he up to, anyway?  So I says:
What was the use to tell Jim these warn't real kings and dukes?  It
When I got down out of the tree I crept along down the river bank a
When I got down stairs in the morning the parlor was shut up, and the
When I got half-way, first one hound and then another got up and went for
When I got up stairs I looked out at the window and see Tom doing his
When I struck the town I see there warn't nobody out in the storm, so I
When Jim called me to take the watch at four in the morning, he says:
When he got done he couldn't no way make up his mind which one for Jim to
When he heard my voice it righted him up some, but he warn't quite
When me and Jim heard that we didn't feel so brash as what we did before.
When she said that I see I was out of the woods again, and so I was
When the place was packed full the undertaker he slid around in his black
When they got there they swarmed into the graveyard and washed over it
When we got back to the raft and he come to count up he found he had
When we got home Aunt Sally was that glad to see me she laughed and cried
When we got home the house was all dark and still; so we went on down to
When we got there there warn't nobody stirring; streets empty, and
When we got to the house the street in front of it was packed, and the
When we got up-stairs everybody gethered around the table, and the king
When we struck the boat she was about done loading, and pretty soon she
While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
White River, and it took us three days to fix it.  Which was all right,
Why, Jim, you wouldn't be afraid of it after a little.  You could tame
Why, SPERITS couldn't a done better and been no smarter. And I reckon
Wilks' breast?"
Wilks's brother!  You're a fraud, that's what you are!"
Wilks--and you pays your money and you takes your choice!"
Wilkses"--and he wagged his head towards the king and the duke.
William was the cussedest joker in the world, and hadn't tried to write
William's letters, too; so if you'll get him to write a line or so we can
William, which can't hear nor speak--and can't even make signs to amount
Wonderful Attraction!
YOU don't like trouble and danger.  But if only HALF a man--like Buck
You bet you, Jim and me stared this time.  Then the duke says:
You going to Orleans, you say?"
You pay me back the chaws you've awready borry'd off'n me, Lafe Buckner,
You see, he was pretty old, and George's g'yirls was too young to be much
You're the houn' I'm after, and I'm a-gwyne to have you, too!"
Your uncle Harvey's a preacher, ain't he?  Very well, then; is a PREACHER
a DOCTOR, not if it's forty year!"
a big one, and they hailed her.  She sent out her yawl, and we went
a big surge to bust his way in and get a look, and the way I lit out and
a body ain't got no business doing wrong when he ain't ignorant and knows
a body don't love water-moccasins enough to go around hunting for them.
a boy."
a candle in this window, and if I don't turn up wait TILL eleven, and
a chance to do better.  I judged I better hide it outside of the house
a chance; other folks has their rights as well as you."
a circus, nor nothing I can think of.  I went to thinking out a plan, but
a clew, after he's gone? and don't you reckon they'll want clews?  Of
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
a corn-shuck bed warn't just fitten for me to sleep on.  Your Grace 'll
a dozen made a jump to do it, but somebody sings out, "Let HIM pass the
a fight, and he was home now to take out some fresh men, and thanks to
a friend on both sides of him a-holt of his arms and hurrying him along.
a glance at one another, and nodded their heads, as much as to say, "What
a goo-gooing around, happy and satisfied, like a jug that's googling out
a good while, till by and by the king says:
a hickry-bark ladder don't cost nothing, and don't waste nothing, and is
a lie, and He knowed it.  You can't pray a lie--I found that out.
a little low stool in front of me, holding both of my hands, and says:
a little while Tom's Aunt Polly shook herself loose and stood there
a little, and find out who I was.  But I couldn't get no show, Mrs.
a lot of empty names and facts which he picked up somewheres, and you
a mile around, and you'd see the islands looking dusty through the rain,
a mile out, all right.  When we was three-quarters of a mile below we
a mind to acknowledge him, that would do him more good than most anything
a new place the spiders would take a chance at him as he crossed over.
a nigger that was ungrateful enough to run away, I wouldn't give him up,
a one of us could catch hide nor hair nor sight nor sound of them; and
a pison long time to dig them into a rock he wouldn't ever get out.  But
a prime good hit.
a rag.
a slave again all his life, and amongst strangers, too, for forty dirty
a small dim P, and a B (which is an initial he dropped when he was
a snag there in a swift current which breaks on it and makes that streak
a spinning-wheel wailing along up and sinking along down again; and then
a steamboat coughing along up-stream, so far off towards the other side
a stranger.  Jimmy" (that's one of the children) "run and tell Lize to
a sweat to get through with the business.  By and by I heard the king and
a tight place that when Mrs. Phelps took me for Tom Sawyer--she chipped
a tin plate, or anywhere else."
a wave.
a-cluttering, maybe.  The first thing to see, looking away over the water,
a-coming; and then you would see all the loafers get up and watch the thing
a-crying.  If they warn't the beatenest lot, them two frauds, that ever I
a-floating along, talking and singing and laughing.  But somehow I
a-giving us our sailing orders, and Jim got it all right, along with her
a-gwyne to raise."
a-loafing around town to put in the time and wait.  A man up and offered
a-making his'n out of the brass and I making mine out of the spoon, Tom
a-near your room since Miss Mary Jane took you and the duke and showed it
a-nigh him any more, and said if I chalked his raft he'd kill me, and no
a-running, and says:
a-sailing around as easy and comfortable as if he warn't ever drunk in his
a-shaking all over and ready to sink down in my tracks I was that scared;
a-smiling and bobbing their heads like a passel of sapheads whilst he
a-standing on top of the bed raising Cain, and the rats was doing what
a-stannin' heah dis minute!"
a-tremblin', en crope aroun' en open de do' easy en slow, en poke my head
a-trembling, because I'd got to decide, forever, betwixt two things, and
a-trying to steal out of slavery, and his name is JIM--old Miss Watson's
aboard, and she was from Cincinnati; and when they found we only wanted
about Sis, nor any of them.  Now I'll rest my works a little, and you
about a dog not eating watermelon.  It shows how a body can see and don't
about a hundred times as many shovels as they wanted, but nobody hadn't
about a quarter of a minute or as much as that, and I would a sold out
about a runaway nigger, don't forget to remember that YOU don't know
about every little thing that warn't yard-stick straight; so she says,
about forty-five or fifty year old, bareheaded, and her spinning-stick in
about four or five foot along the middle of the bottom log.  Tom said we
about it as anybody did, and as soon as we was half up stairs and her
about it nuther."
about it, and they said everybody went to the show looking very innocent;
about it, and wouldn't count them again not to save her life; she druther
about it.  Prisoners ain't ever without rats.  There ain't no instance of
about it."
about its being a sore trial for him and his poor brother to lose the
about nothing else.  It got darker and darker, and it was a beautiful
about running daytimes.  We judged we could make miles enough that night
about snags; the lightning was glaring and flittering around so constant
about that, for pretty soon all of a sudden along comes a regular ripper
about the English Wilkses, and so on; but I didn't get pretty fur till
about what a body might expect of boys, for all boys was a pretty
about?"
about?"
above-board here, you know.  We want to lug this h-yer money up stairs
absent-minded like:
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
according to my judgment of him, too; because I thought he had a good
account of the shouting and crying.  Folks got up everywheres in the
accounts of being glad and full of thinking; so I got home a heap too
accounts of the short notice, and they ain't going out of this till they
acknowledge, candid and frank, I ain't very well fixed to meet it and
acknowledging 't I'm right down scared.  But there's no hope that he's
across a saddle, and away you go to your native Langudoc, or Navarre, or
across his left arm and cocking it when he says this.
acted. I never see such an old ostrich for wanting to gobble everything
actions, and if we ever got the least show we would give them the cold
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
advance; they were going to pay in cordwood and onions as usual, but he
adventure out of it, and be perfectly satisfied.  And so it turned out,
advice listened to."
affairs--if you got any.  Long as you're in this town don't you forgit
afforded it.  But I didn't.  As I sprung aboard I sung out:
afraid they'd steal some o' the family!  I was just to that pass I didn't
afraid to go to bed, but she dasn't set up.  So the thing was working
after I got my hand in.  So I'll mosey along now, and smouch a couple of
after anybody I judged it was ME--or maybe Jim.  I was about to dig out
after dinner the duke said he had ciphered out his idea about how to run
after that they took a rest, and had a talk about all kinds of adventures
after that time you can't travel so far but I will find you."
afternoon, and the country people was already beginning to come in, in
again and shut the door, and I knowed he'd fixed the other door too.
again when he came out.  He fetched uncle a key about the time we got up
again, I bet I could fetch two hundred!  If we could put it off till--"
again, and give Sherburn another cussing.  By and by somebody says:
again, and how good he was, and what a loss he was, and all that; and
again, but couldn't set down convenient.  And so we went for the snakes,
again, not for a salary.
again--I couldn't help it, and I couldn't rest easy.  But nothing come
again--it was the sudden surprise of it that knocked us so kind of cold.
again--which was her way; but when she got done there warn't hardly
again.  "Don't mind what I said--please don't--you WON'T, now, WILL you?"
again.  So they went off a-jawing; and I felt dreadful glad I'd worked it
again; and then says:  "These old letters is from Harvey Wilks; and
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
against every awning-post, and he most always had his hands in his
against the man, and put his chin on his shoulder, and cried down his
agin en tells me for certain you IS dead.  Lawsy, I's mighty glad to git
ago, and he said if I hollered he'd cut my livers out--and told me to lay
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
agreed that Jim had acted very well, and was deserving to have some
agreement that we wouldn't have nothing in the world to do with such
ahead o' me."
ain't a-going to no more.  But I reckon I got to light out for the
ain't even a dog to give a sleeping-mixture to.  And there's Jim chained
ain't got no time to spare.  If we was to put in another night this way
ain't no good, nohow.  Tom Sawyer he says the same.
ain't no hurry; le's keep on looking around."
ain't no more trouble than that?  It's as mild as goose-milk.  Why, Huck,
ain't no watchman to be drugged--now there OUGHT to be a watchman.  There
ain't no ways particular how it's done so it's done.  What I want is my
ain't the only person that's had troubles like that."
ain't used to lying, it don't seem to come handy; what you want is
ain't work.  What's your lay?"
ain't your uncles, and I couldn't do it if I WAS here.  I could swear
ain't, when you come right down to the cold facts; but they ain't nothing
ain't.  What WILL he do, then?  Why, he'll say, 'It's a great pity, but
air of freedom; married here, and died, leaving a son, his own father
air--bang! goes the second one, and he tumbles backwards on to the
all about that scandalous show, and Burton said he would tell the people;
all about who I was, and what; and I had to up and tell how I was in such
all belongs to them dear people in Pokeville camp-meeting, natural
all busy listening.  The king was saying--in the middle of something he'd
all but jest this money.  The people that BUYS the property is the
all come OUT at once but just one time."
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
all fixed up agin mos' as good as new, en we's got a new lot o' stuff, in
all he wanted to eat, and a good time, and nothing to do.  And we had him
all his might; and every now and then he would hold up his Bible and
all his teeth out; and there warn't ever anything could a worked better.
all in little strings and twisted them together, and long before daylight
all is more'n I can make out.  A body 'd think you WOULD learn to take
all kinds of old shackly wagons, and on horses.  The circus would leave
all kinds of strange things, and hear all kinds of strange words and
all look alike.  A rail fence round a two-acre yard; a stile made out of
all my born days.  A shirt, and a sheet, and a spoon, and six can--"
all night, and every time I see Uncle Silas mooning around I dodged him.
all off on to the niggers, and yet hadn't done the niggers no harm by it.
all on; but I couldn't a gone to sleep if I'd a wanted to, I was in such
all over me.  Dad fetch it, I jis' wisht I could git my han's on one er
all right--ain't that so?"
all started.  It was about sundown.  The doctor he led me along by the
all that trouble and bother to set a free nigger free! and I couldn't
all the dogs shut up, so they wouldn't scare off the robbers; but by this
all the modern conveniences in his wardrobe to dig himself out with?  Now
all the tea in Boston Harbor overboard, and whacks out a declaration of
all the time that clown carried on so it most killed the people.  The
all the time, "Say, now, you've looked enough, you fellows; 'tain't right
all the time, and told her every blame thing, from where we first struck
all the time, like a baby that can't talk.
all the time--the nigger's crazy--crazy 's Nebokoodneezer, s'I."
all the uncomfortableness and we felt mighty good over it, because it
all these three weeks; hadn't seen him since they was boys together--and
all to him.  It kind of made him drunk, as you may say, and he didn't
all to stay hid whilst he went up to town and smelt around to see if
all with him; so I says, I got to have HELP somehow; and the minute I
all, but only Tom.  Sis never wrote to me about anybody coming but him."
all; by the time we had left a mile of woods behind us and struck the
alleys and everywheres in the dark, and then fetch him here in the canoe,
allowed the inscription was going to be the toughest of all.  That's the
allowed these lickings warn't nothing to what she would do if we ever
allowed they was made, but I allowed they happened; I judged it would
allowed they'd got spoiled and was hove out of the nest.
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
alone a minute, and don't disturb him.  So he thought and thought, and
alone we had to tie him, because if anybody happened on to him all by
along all the rest of the day and all night.  It was a fix, I tell you!
along home, and advise everybody to come and see the tragedy."
along the bluff bank in the easy water.  Pretty soon we come to a nice
along the crowd; and wherever it struck the people tried a little to
along with me, but I said no, I could drive the horse myself, and I
along, and got down stairs all right.  There warn't a sound anywheres.  I
along, and let Aunt Sally see we was all right.
along, he was too strong for me and jerked loose and run, and we after
along, too!"
along.
along.  Now LEAVE--and take your half-a-man with you"--tossing his gun up
along."
along; the parson he had to stand there, over the coffin, and wait--you
alongside of pirates to work a camp-meeting with.
already free?"
altogether my fault, because, you know, I don't see them nor have nothing
always a-whirling around sudden, and saying "ouch," and before she'd got
always done it; and some of them he hugged and kissed as many as five or
always done that, and it's a blame' good way, too."
always on the lookout, and ain't a-going to allow no such miserable
amongst the gowns, and stood there perfectly still.
amongst the old tools, and got a pickaxe and give it to him, and he took
amount to shucks, and said she'd serve Sid the same when he come.
an old long-tailed blue jeans coat with slick brass buttons flung over
and 'tain't fair for you to stay thar all the time, and never give nobody
and Deacon Lot Hovey, and Ben Rucker, and Abner Shackleford, and Levi
and I drove mine.  But of course I forgot all about driving slow on
and I knowed I ought to just up and tell him so; and so be his true
and I left my baggage on the wharf-boat and went looking around the town
and I reckon I couldn't a stood it all, but would a had to bust out and
and I reckon they did; I wonder they don't walk off with the whole place,
and I see plain enough he'd been worked main hard lately.  I liked the
and I stole it to give to you; and I know where I hid it, but I'm afraid
and I stood behind the king and the duke's chairs and waited on them, and
and I think it's a sound one."
and I won't do so any more.  You tell me what to do, and whatever you say
and I'd a got up and obeyed her if I'd a been dead.  As we was passing
and Internet Wiretap
and Louis Fourteen, and Louis Fifteen, and James Second, and Edward
and a half wide; we run nights, and laid up and hid daytimes; soon as
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
and after a long time he went out of his head, and wouldn't let me come
and all it was just like your brains would be if--Dear, dear, whyd'nt you
and all of OURN but a shekel or two BESIDES.  G'long to bed, and don't
and all of them fidgety and uneasy, but trying to look like they warn't;
and amongst strangers that way.  You can't be too careful.  I ain't
and amongst their own relations; and it pleased the girls, too--tickled
and as for me, I don't care shucks for the morality of it, nohow.  When I
and ask for some witnesses--why, you'll have that entire town down here
and at last when he'd got everybody's expectations up high enough, he
and away they went, the two sons up the river to Memphis, and their
and back, and back, because the river's always gnawing at it.
and banging tin pans and blowing horns; and we jumped to one side to let
and before long the duke tackled HIS bottle; and so in about a half an
and begged me to save their lives--said they hadn't been doing nothing,
and begun to whisper, and said we could all be joyful now, because all
and blessing the people and praising them and thanking them for being so
and blinked his eyes around, and says:
and blow and thunder and lighten like everything; so the king told us to
and by all hands dropped the reins, and every lady put her knuckles on
and catching them when they come," I most dropped; and a streak of butter
and clearing out without losing any time.  But Tom he showed him how
and come raging up here, swearing what big things you're going to do.
and comfortable, and in fifteen minutes she turned out a pie that was a
and count it before everybody--then ther' ain't noth'n suspicious.  But
and cracking the handiest child's head with her thimble with the other,
and deliberate, not saying a word.  The racket stopped, and the wave
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
and down she goes, and the front wall of the crowd begins to roll in like
and everybody bending a little forwards and gazing at him.  Says I to
and examined them, and then examined the old man's writing, and then THEM
and excited and handsome, but looking kind of happy and eased-up, like a
and found him looking hearty and healthy, and then we woke him up gentle
and found so much fault with it, and with the work and bother of raising
and found them in such a sweat and worry they didn't know which end they
and found you WARN'T up, and so they was hoping to slide out of the way
and fumbling with their buttons.  I warn't easy myself, but I didn't take
and get him sober; but it warn't no use--up the street he would tear
and get them ready for the surprise if I wanted to.  But I said I didn't;
and getting worse and worse all the time, and your wits gets to addling,
and give them one they'd get into trouble sure.
and going to be hard to take, but there ain't no help for it.  These
and going to hell.  And went on thinking.  And got to thinking over our
and grabbed a couple of dozen garters and house-snakes, and put them in a
and gradual.  He was so glad to see us he most cried; and called us
and grumbling away, and quit--and then RIP comes another flash and
and he let on to be Sid, and made things as soft as he could for me.
and he slides out in her clothes.  We'll do that, too."
and he stuck it in the back of his neck and come back.  This letter said:
and heard trampings close by outside.  So we crept to the door, and Tom
and hearty, that they wouldn't cuss him no more.
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
and him a stranger and so far from his people.  How would you like to be
and hitched the raft on, and towed her over very nice and quiet, and the
and homesick; because he hadn't ever been away from home before in his
and horses in the streets, and more coming all the time.  Families
and how mean the preserves was, and how ornery and tough the fried
and how pap disappeared pretty soon, and didn't come back no more, and
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and if the man would promise he wouldn't make no more trouble he would
and if we'd a had him along 'stead of our kings he'd a fooled that town a
and in about two minutes up comes a crowd a-whooping and yelling and
and in less than two seconds we was gliding down stream, all dark and
and in the night-time, sometimes moonlight, sometimes storms, and we
and it ain't likely there's two prisoners on such a little plantation,
and it give us a most amazing stomach-ache.  We reckoned we was all going
and it just warmed you up and made you feel as good as church letting
and jimpson weeds under the window-hole--then we could tote them back and
and just littered with diamonds.  It was a powerful fine sight; I never
and laid low and kept dark till the poor old king was in the middle of
and lay him in enough stomach-ache to last him till next time, too.
and laying them out to one side, and I slid one of them up my sleeve, and
and listen if you can hear 'em coming."
and lit into ME again.  He give me down the banks for not coming and
and low down and mean that I says to myself, my mind's made up; I'll hive
and made himself ever so friendly; and he give out the idea that his
and make yourself at home."
and mesmerizing, and doctoring, and telling fortunes, and a little of
and might be laying at this minute somewheres suffering or dead, and she
and missionaryin' around."
and more, and sung louder and louder; and towards the end some begun to
and my instinct said she would be coming up--from down towards Orleans.
and needy, sunk in shame! (A-A-MEN!) come, all that's worn and soiled and
and nodding their heads--it was Levi Bell, the lawyer that was gone up to
and ornery I got to feeling. And at last, when it hit me all of a sudden
and others was trying to get them to hold on and wait for the
and our baggage got put off at a town above here last night in the night
and out a piece in the country, to put in the time and not get here too
and out through the hole, swift but soft--Jim first, me next, and Tom
and over, and at last we made up our minds they was going to break into
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
and put 'em away; and do you reckon a nigger can run across money and not
and put his hand on his heart, and after a while he said he done it
and reddened up very sweet, and I says, "If you don't mind it, I'll shut
and run down my neck and behind my ears; and pretty soon, when one of
and said so--said "How DO you get biscuits to brown so nice?" and "Where,
and sassed him, and he sassed back, and said he'd attend to them and lay
and say noth'n':  mum's the word for US."
and says, "That secret of your being:  speak!"
and says:
and says:
and says:
and says:
and says:
and says:
and says:
and says:
and schoolhouse, and never charged nothing for his preaching, and it was
and scoop it ALL!"
and see it.
and see the rules broke--because right is right, and wrong is wrong, and
and she come mighty near mashing us every time.  Tom said she was going
and she said cle'r out and let her have some peace, and if we come
and shinning through the dark for the lean-to.  I couldn't hardly get my
and shouting "Hi!--hi!" and the clown cracking jokes behind him; and by
and signs with his hands.  Then he took his place over against the wall.
and sivilize me, and I can't stand it.  I been there before.
and slid down, and she was there yet, and her candle was most out, and
and slipped in behind it, and so they had the bulge on the men again.
and so I'd better write a letter to Tom Sawyer and tell him to tell Miss
and so after all our hard work and trouble this escape 'll go off
and so is the nonnamous letters.  We'll use them both.  And it's usual
and so we throwed the rest away.  We didn't cook none of the pies in the
and spoons, and the old warming-pan, and most a thousand things that I
and starting for the fields; and Jim's nigger was piling up a tin pan
and stood a-listening and looking, and not saying anything; and nobody
and sufferin' rightful King of France."
and swallow the sawdust, so it can't be found, and put some dirt and
and that and t'other for him, and standing up till he told us we might
and that's enough for THEM; they're young and spry, and k'n easy earn a
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.
and the boy was doing as well there as he would a done at home--better,
and the doctor sung out:
and the dogs, but they outrun us, and we lost them; but we thought we
and the duke had their legs sprawled around so there warn't no show for
and the flowers; but sometimes not that way, because they've left dead
and the grindstone, and flour, and just no end of things, and you can't
and the horse a-going like a house afire too.  He just stood up there,
and the names of the very dogs, and begged and BEGGED him not to hurt
and the noise of the tramping was like a soldier march.  The windows and
and the place getting hotter and hotter, and the butter beginning to melt
and the rest of the tribe.
and the trees thrashing around in the wind; then comes a H-WHACK!--bum!
and their wives, and the widow Bartley.
and then if I reckoned he could a got lost, or hurt, or maybe drownded,
and then the other, and then a-leaning down over the front of it, with
and then the rest followed; and the next second half of them come back,
and then they give the pen to the duke--and then for the first time the
and then we're going home."
and there was a big crowd packed around each one of these fellows,
and they ain't going to get no money.  It's just like the way it was with
and they did; and Aunt Sally she come in, and when we got back she was
and they poke into you and hurt; and when you roll over the dry shucks
and they talked right along awhile, and then got to one side and talked
and they wouldn't THINK of hurting a person that pets them.  Any book
and thous'n's that ain't nigh so well off.  Bless you, THEY ain't got
and three thousand dollars, gold, to the girls; and it give the tanyard
and took on so it most made me down sick to see it.  The girls said they
and tried to keep him out, but he wouldn't listen, and the whole show
and upstairs there was Miss Sophia in her door waiting for me.  She
and very gray whiskers.  He had an old battered-up slouch hat on, and a
and waited on him first at meals, and didn't set down in his presence
and was being chased for it--said there was men and dogs a-coming.  They
and was the pet of the women folks, big and little, for I was makin' it
and washed me overboard.  It most killed Jim a-laughing.  He was the
and watched the daylight come.  Not a sound anywheres--perfectly still
and we crawled out through our hole and down there, and Jim and me laid
and we opened the door and went in, and shut it, and struck a match, and
and we wouldn't get but a few minutes to dig, every day, while they was
and weeks, and for ever and ever.  Why, look at one of them prisoners in
and went to sleep, and never waked up till about an hour ago; then we
and went to sobbing right out loud--the poor girls, too; and every woman,
and when you've played about two minutes you'll see all the rats, and the
and where the people's all so kind and good.  Jim's the prisoner.  All
and worked first-rate; because THEY didn't know but what it would take
and yelled, but we didn't wear no boots and didn't yell.  We was in the
and yet he was risking his freedom to do it, and was all tired out, too,
and you get to doing all sorts o' wild things, and by and by you think to
and you needn't let on to know me at first."
and--"
and--Say, what do you mean by kissing me?"
ankle deep as much as another half-mile.  We come to a little flat piece
another lot.  But we got them laid in, and all the other things; and you
another mile to a lonesome place, and then he got ashore and says:
another powwow as they made!  In a quarter of a minute I was a kind of a
another sockdolager.  The waves most washed me off the raft sometimes,
another.  But mainly they don't do nothing."
another. So what we want to do is to be prepared; then we're all right."
answer encores with, anyway."
answer it; for my brother and me has had misfortunes; he's broke his arm,
any books at all?--Baron Trenck, nor Casanova, nor Benvenuto Chelleeny,
any fool would a KNOWED something was up.  And then waltzed in and cussed
any more, but gray; you could see little dark spots drifting along ever
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
anybody at ALL."
anybody but a lot of prejudiced chuckleheads would a SEEN that the old
anybody had got any wind of the Royal Nonesuch there yet. ("House to rob,
anyhow."
anything but just the way I am telling you; if you do they will suspicion
anything left o' poor Hare-lip.  So she hollered.
anything that's regular; you want to be starting something fresh all the
anything wake them up all over, and make them happy all over, like a dog
anyway, so he won't be uneasy about her?"
anyway.
apiece."  The duke said that was HIM.  In another bill he was the
appreciate them, and they was just about wasted on him.  So Jim he was
approach us with offers to donate.
apron-pocket, if we got a chance; and told him what they would be and
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
armor for Richard III. and t'other chap, and a long white cotton
around and found an old tin washpan, and stopped up the holes as well as
around and waited on him, and says, "Will yo' Grace have some o' dis or
around everywheres.  You'd see a muddy sow and a litter of pigs come
around hunting the runaway nigger.
around that duke.  He seemed to have something on his mind.  So, along in
around the nigger cabins and laid for a chance, and stole three tin
around then.
around where he was--what did he do?  He collared it.  S'pose he
around, because I wanted to stop Jim's mouth till these fellows could get
around, listening to the stillness.  Once there was a thick fog, and the
around, though it was good daylight now.  But I didn't mind, because I
arrangement I ever see. You got to invent ALL the difficulties.  Well, we
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
as I can make out."
as I'd got through the breakers that was laying just ahead of me
as a wink with the funniest things a body ever said; and how he ever
as good a notion as ever I had in my life to take it out o' you this very
as mush, and screwed it down tight and fast.  So there I was!  I didn't
as slick as nothing at all, too.  Man the sweeps--man the sweeps!"
as the hut, but narrow--only about six foot wide.  The door to it was at
as this was the last day of the camp-meeting he couldn't do no good, and
as to see what the hounds would do.  They knowed us, and didn't make no
as we could stand up; but we had a good deal of a hole to show for it.
as we live.  NO.  What we want is to go out of here quiet, and talk this
as we ought to.  By rights I reckon we ought to be a couple of years; but
as well.
as you may say--and it ain't no slouch of a harrow, nuther, you come to
ascend to heaven!' wrote down in HIS biography; no, sir, we'd a whooped
ashes of the diseased; and says if his poor brother laying yonder could
ask how is your uncles this morning your face would tell something.  No,
ask the Apthorps to be sure and come to the auction and buy this house,
asked him if he'd seen a strange nigger dressed so and so, and he says:
asking him if he'd been imagining he saw something again.  He raised up,
asleep, and didn't know what you was about."
asleep, and saying, "Po' little 'Lizabeth! po' little Johnny! it's mighty
asleep--and, by jings, it was my old Jim!
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
astonishing speech I ever heard--and I'm bound to say Tom Sawyer fell
astraddle of a rail--that is, I knowed it WAS the king and the duke,
at Mr. Lothrop's so long, nuther.  How fur is it?"
at last; and we was all pretty much fagged out, too, but mainly Jim.  The
at our heels, for we made noise enough, and it was only nine in the
at that nigger made out'n straw on the bed; and look at--"
at that.  I went straight out in the country as much as a mile before I
at the window, where I was close to him and could see in.  They laid him
at us, and I got my share, and we dodged out of the path and let them go
auctioneer, and chipping in a little Scripture now and then, or a little
audience--and that was always nuts for Tom Sawyer.  In them circumstances
awake I reckoned we could put up a yarn for the family that would wash.
away for a few hours for to get a little rest and change, or to see a
away up, and his head tilted back, looking up at the sky; and then he
away with all his might, and throwed his hat down in the mud and rode
away, and then I'd be to blame; and yet never a skiff come close enough
away.  I didn't want no trouble with their kind.  I'd seen all I wanted
awful hot day.  There was as much as a thousand people there from twenty
awhile, and then Tom asked a lot of questions, and when Jim told him
awluz at it, sah, en dey do mos' kill me, dey sk'yers me so.  Please to
awry, And lose the name of action. 'Tis a consummation devoutly to be
back and shoulders gliding along the wall again; and so he glided and
back everything I said."
back he comes and stops before the store, still keeping it up.  Some men
back he could have the reward and expenses.
back was turned we slid for the cellar cupboard and loaded up a good
back with the duke we hid the canoe, and then they set down on a log, and
back, and says:
bad nigger.  When I got to where I found the boy I see I couldn't cut the
bag was in the coffin.  The lid was shoved along about a foot, showing
bag, and put it in our room, and by that time it was supper-time, and a
baggage! That's MIGHTY good!--and mighty ingenious--under the
baldhead, pretty pert and uppish.
bank a piece and got aboard, and Jim he grabbed me and hugged me, he was
barking at each other all up and down the bank, till we was so far away
barrel-hoop?"
basket and slammed it across the house and knocked the cat galley-west;
bath."
be SORRY they was going out of this region!  And I believed they WAS
be an Englishman and couldn't imitate the lingo no better than what he
be better still.  But we got to let that go.  There ain't necessity
be dug out with a case-knife.  He won't last."
be no flaws in his record."
be seen now.  Don't you let on you're here.  I'll play a joke on him.
be six or seven hundred years old, at the very least."
bead over the wood-rank, and drops one of them out of his saddle.  All
beast, and he reckoned they would light out and leave him alone.  Which
beats the Nonesuch, DON'T it?"
because I do know better.  Gimme a case-knife."
because I overslept.  I was just starting down the ladder, and I see
because I've seen a frog lay most as many, so of course it could be done.
because THEY never all slept at one time, but took turn about, so when
because a body don't see such a storm as that every day in the week, not
because how was HE going to know what was tattooed on the man?  He
because it got mighty heavy and tiresome to him when he had to lay all
because it was a grand adventure, and mysterious, and so it hit him where
because it was for us.  It had a picture of a runaway nigger with a
because now if I could tip her the wink she'd light out and save me, and
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
because she allowed her uncle Peter would ruther they had it than anybody
because she allowed there was something behind her every time--so she was
because she is going there to speak about their buying the house; I know
because that was what pap always called it; but Tom said it warn't
because we didn't know how, but she come up smiling on the last one.  We
because, you see, we didn't want nothing but a crust, and we couldn't
become of your other shirt."
bed, and says:
been DOING down there."
been heah; he say he reck'n you's ben shot, kase you didn' come home no
been packing things in it--getting ready to go to England.  But she had
been up to something you no business to, and I lay I'll find out what it
been worse scared if the place had a been full of ghosts laying for them
before I was murdered that time?"
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
before long a big iron-jawed man worked himself in there from outside,
before night, so our show would have a pretty good chance.  The duke he
before she goes to bed, and she's got on her night-gown and her ruffled
before they ever see me and Jim again.  I got down there all out of
before you can hardly wink, Miss Mary.  And they'll come a-biling, too."
before you, in blue jeans and misery, the wanderin', exiled, trampled-on,
before, and thought 'twas all she was worth."
before, but kind of ornery, and humble, and to blame, somehow--though I
before.  By and by, when they was asleep and snoring, Jim says:
begin to fumble with the pad-lock, and heard a man say:
beginning to shiver--it was going to be pretty ugly, it was easy to see
begins to rip and rave and grit his teeth; and after that, all through
begun in earnest, too; and went weaving first to one side of the platform
begun to paw around there.  But I see I couldn't do nothing without a
begun yet; and then I slipped down the ladder.
behind everything and under the beds and shivering through the air.  If a
behine you towards de las'; when you landed I reck'ned I could ketch up
bein' sot free, en one er de boys wuz to git shot, would he say, 'Go on
being born again, I was so glad to find out who I was.  Well, they froze
being brung up to it.
believe him.  One man asked me if I see the niggers steal it.  I said no,
believe the rest."
bell.  Next morning, 'Chop off her head.'  And he made every one of them
below till twelve, but I wouldn't a turned in anyway if I'd had a bed,
benches and swarm towards the ring, saying, "Knock him down! throw him
berries. Just as I was passing a place where a kind of a cowpath crossed
besides he was in a sweat to get to the Indian Ocean right off and go to
best authorities does is to saw the bed-leg in two, and leave it just so,
best boy in the world, and not to tell anybody.  She was mighty red in
best o' things the way you find 'em, says I--that's my motto.  This ain't
betray the helish design. They will sneak down from northards, along the
better do if they did catch me.  But the king he got the bag before I
better do with it, because we heard them say at supper they was going to
better for a while if people treated him according to his rights, and got
better keep de animals satisfied, en not have no trouble in de house."
better than anybody else, being acquainted with all pirate crews in that
better than him; so he was satisfied, and said he would do it all just as
better than lying tied a couple of years every day, and trembling all
better.  It might answer for YOU to dig Jim out with a pick, WITHOUT any
better."
better; well, them dogs never even got on the TRACK of 'm once!  You
big as a bedroom all hung around with vines, and found a man laying there
big carpet-bags by him.
big kettle to bile soap in by the little hut; bench by the kitchen door,
bigger and held crowds of people.  The benches was made out of outside
bills--and took the money, four dollars.  And he had got in ten
bitterer than ever, and flung up her hands, and says:
blame' simple; there ain't nothing TO it.  What's the good of a plan that
bless me, and so on, he was so glad I was back and we was shut of the
blethers out:
blossom.  He used to marry a new wife every day, and chop off her head
blow on our dead-beats.
blow over by and by.
blowed out a cylinder-head."
blowing noses--because people always blows them more at a funeral than
boat.  Ain't that sensible?" ("You bet it is!--the jedge is right!"
body could think she grabbed me and give me a squeeze, and said I was the
bone, so as to get time to think how to get down again.  Then I says:
book out with; and I don't give a dead rat what the authorities thinks
book-mark to keep her place, and I might go and play now.
boots and shoes, and pieces of bottles, and rags, and played-out tinware.
borrow some of it?"
borrowed from their mass, and from their officers.  But a mob without any
borrowing, it was stealing.  He said we was representing prisoners; and
both got powerful mellow, but I noticed the king didn't get mellow enough
both of them going it at once, like a cat convention; and she says:
both rooms. I passed along, and the parlor door was open; but I see there
both stay on watch till the weather got better; then him and the duke
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
both with the hickry, and we was as much as two hours catching another
both, and hugged me, and give me one of them lickings of hern that don't
bothered both.  But Tom says:
bothering around her again betwixt that and dinner she'd skin us.  So we
bottles, and wore-out tin things, and all such truck, and scratched
bought store clothes where we stopped last; and now the king put his'n
bow and danced off to the dressing-room, and everybody just a-howling
bow when we spoke to him, and say "Your Grace," or "My Lord," or "Your
bow.
boy about as big as me that died last year, and he was sorry to see a boy
boy! sick him, Tige!" and away the sow would go, squealing most horrible,
boys was squatting back to back behind the pile, so they could watch both
boys without anything on but tow-linen shirts, and they hung on to their
brain-fever as shore as you're born, and they're oozing out!"
branches, where they had lemonade and gingerbread to sell, and piles of
brass warming-pan which he thought considerable of, because it belonged
bread and what was left of the butter, and she grabbed me, and hugged me,
break up and go down and live with Uncle Ben, who's got a little
breakfast we all laid off and talked, and the first thing that come out
breakfast, and I reckon I put it in there, not noticing, meaning to put
breath but loaded up with joy, and sung out:
brisker and brisker, and the thunder boomed; but them people never took
britches catched fast on a splinter on the top rail, and then he hear the
britches-pockets, except when he fetched them out to lend a chaw of
broke, and a worn spirit went to its rest, after thirty-seven years of
brother's, and then they'll know it's all right."
brothers and benefactors of the race, and that dear preacher there, the
brush till I got to a good place, and then I clumb up into the forks of a
budge; so he was for crawling out and setting the raft loose himself; but
bulled right along, spite of all the duke could say or do, and I tell you
bullet out without some help, and he warn't in no condition for me to
bullinesses wherever he got a chance.  And that is what he done.
bullyragging him for sport, and he a-cussing and a-threatening with all
bum! bumble-umble-um-bum-bum-bum-bum--and the thunder would go rumbling
bunched in the front door.  Tom had his store clothes on, and an
bundle on a stick over his shoulder, and "$200 reward" under it.  The
burnt pretty much all over, in places, and eyes put out with the smoke;
business a-growin' all the time, when somehow or another a little report
business!
business, and Tom allowed it was worth twice the trouble it took, because
business, and make himself a shame, and his family a shame, before
business, or something. So then we was pretty scared, and made up an
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
bust. Well, dey'll be plenty un 'm dah, I reck'n, en you bet you he'll
but I WUZ mad!  I was a-gwyne for de chile, but jis' den--it was a do'
but I found the duke's room, and started to paw around it with my hands;
but I hadn't any clothes on, and didn't mind.  We didn't have no trouble
but I knowed they was, because they was always taking off their hats, and
but I reck'n dey wouldn' take no stock in a juice-harp."
but I recollected it wouldn't be much like the king to let anybody else
but I says:
but I see them sneaking out of the room and hustling away, and I never
but anybody could buy private beforehand if they wanted to.
but dat's enough.  Dis one's powerful drunk, en de duke ain' much
but it wasn't where I thought it would be; but I touched the curtain that
but mostly it was bare and smooth, like an old hat with the nap rubbed
but nice.  She said she'd have her frocks and a lot of other traps took
but nothing of the sort; pretty soon he crawls out from under the wigwam,
but the front door was locked, and the key wasn't there.  Just then I
but the king allowed he wouldn't.  He says:
but the minute we turned the corner and was in the dark he says:
but they didn't come from high enough up the river; but at last there was
but they didn't yellocute long till the audience got up and give them a
buttermilk; and as for the king, he just gazed and gazed down sorrowful
buy some more thread to tie up his wool with; and then looks at Jim, and
buzzing of the rain, and the thrashing of the wind, and the splitting of
by Sid being here."
by a long sight.  My souls, how the wind did scream along!  And every
by a mistake.  I am Peter Wilks' brother Harvey, and this is his brother
by jings, HE begins to cry.
by midday the duke and me would know it was all right, and we was to come
by one leg, with a ten-foot chain, to the leg of his bed:  why, all you
by the barrel, and rotten cabbages, and such things; and if I know the
by the duke at the door, and I see that every man that went in had his
by, and when the dogs come they warn't interested in us, but went for the
by, away off yonder, and maybe a galoot on it chopping, because they're
called him, and when they see the pistol the men jumped to one side, and
called it Domesday Book--which was a good name and stated the case.  You
calling me, so I could go on sleeping; and see him how glad he was when I
camp-meeting for all it was worth, and I might go, too.
can get you some garter-snakes, and you can tie some buttons on their
can send it to him in a pie; it's mostly done that way.  And I've et
can tear up our sheets and make him a rope ladder easy enough.  And we
can't help it; we got to do the best we can with the materials we've got.
candle, and I dasn't light one, of course.  So I judged I'd got to do the
candle, and tucked me in, and mothered me so good I felt mean, and like I
candlestick into handy sizes, and Tom put them and the pewter spoon in
cane; and then he stood up straight and stiff where Sherburn had stood,
cannibal in the morning.  Uncle Silas he asked a pretty long blessing
canoe?"
capering and capered off behind the scenes, they roared and clapped and
captured him up the river, and were too poor to travel on a steamboat, so
carpenter; and about Harvey's--which was a dissentering minister; and so
carpet-bags.  And if he's gone over to t'other side, go over there and
carried the sack into the lean-to whilst I stood off a piece to keep
carrying on that way in the air.  Jim said he believed it was spirits;
carve the things on it, and file out the pens and the saw on it, too."
case-knives."
caterpillars, and one thing or another; and we like to got a hornet's
caves in at a time.  Sometimes a belt of land a quarter of a mile deep
cellar.  So these two frauds said they'd go and fetch it up, and have
cents admission, and "furnish charts of character at twenty-five cents
cents? Give it here."
chain off, so they just cut their hand off and shoved.  And a leg would
chalk away from him, and don't give it back to him till you get him back
chance on top of it.  So me and the duke went up to the village, and
chance to smouch it from him. Of course I WANTED to slide down and get it
chance to talk us over."
chance; teach singing-geography school for a change; sling a lecture
change the general tune.
changing watches, and so our hands wouldn't get blistered, and we could
chanst, en a-patchin' up de raf' nights when--"
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
cheek.
chickens was--and all that kind of rot, the way women always do for to
children all the time; I wanted to get them out to one side and pump them
children didn't have on any clothes but just a tow-linen shirt.  Some of
children in the eye and curled him up like a fishing-worm, and let a cry
children that way.  It injured the frauds some; but the old fool he
children warn't ever going to see each other no more--and then busted out
chile, ker-BLAM!--en my lan', de chile never move'!  My breff mos' hop
chin in his hand, thinking.  Pretty soon he sighs and shakes his head;
chin off, den WHAH is de glory?  No, sah, I doan' want no sich doin's."
chinks stopped up with mud or mortar, and these mud-stripes been
chops.  Then they raked it into the bag again, and I see the king begin
chuckle, and says:
cleared out for the house.
cler out to bed, and don't lemme see no more of you till morning!"
climb up the lightning-rod.  But after he got up half way about three
clo'sline yistiddy, but she done gone:  she ain' dah no mo' now."
closet; and kept on putting it back and stealing it again for a couple of
clothes, nohow.
clothes-line; and I found an old sack and put them in it, and we went
cocked. Boggs throws up both of his hands and says, "O Lord, don't
coffin with his screw-driver.  I was in a sweat then, and watched him
colicky, and everybody joined in and sung, and Peter was the only one
collected eighty-seven dollars and seventy-five cents.  And then he had
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
com--"
come a-trickling down my forehead, and Aunt Sally she see it, and turns
come and get their runaway nigger, but hadn't got no answer, because
come and shook hands with the king and thanked him and talked to him; and
come around, you turn your back; and then whatever we've put in the pan,
come back dah was dat do' a-stannin' open YIT, en dat chile stannin' mos'
come back here and wonder what has become of me and Jim and the raft--and
come back out of the fog; and when I come to him again in the swamp, up
come back, and we said we'd come again some time if the nigger wanted us
come back, or I could hunt around further, or maybe I better go down home
come down.  Buck begun to cry and rip, and 'lowed that him and his cousin
come in a certain length of time, and filled up our hole, and said a
come in heah I'd take en bust right out thoo dat log wall, I would, wid
come in sight again; said they was up to some devilment or other
come in to see if he was comfortable and had plenty to eat, and both of
come in?  Well, den, you kin git yo' money when you wants it, kase dat
come mighty near getting here in time.'  But then I says again, 'No, I
come to a standstill.  Then the people begun to holler at him and make
come to town to kill old Colonel Sherburn, and his motto was, "Meat
come up all right, but pa was drunk, and Ike was only four years old, so
come.  And they'll just fairly swarm over you, and have a noble good
come."
come; for he COULDN'T come and me miss him.  Sally, it's terrible--just
comfortable and glad.  Next, she says:
comfortable, and it stayed easy and comfortable till by and by I hear a
comfortable.  But the duke kind of soured on him, and didn't look a bit
coming, and sure enough it was Tom Sawyer, and I stopped and waited till
coming, so we hunted a place to hide and tie up right away.
commence right away."
companionship of felons on a raft!"
company for him, except Mary Jane, the red-headed one; and so he was
complexion, and perfectly beautiful, and looking just like a gang of real
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
congregation over in England would be in a sweat about him, so he must
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
considerable good deal of talk all the afternoon, and me and Tom was on
considerable in my estimation.  Only I couldn't believe it.  Tom Sawyer a
considerable many cuss words.  There was as many as one loafer leaning up
considerable many ways in my mind; and at last fixed up a plan that
considerable ruputation now."
considerable trouble, because people was always coming out in skiffs and
contracted to do a thing, and you paid him, and didn't set down there and
copied or distributed:
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
corn-pone that was in Jim's pan, and we went along with Nat to see how it
corn-pone with it on, and blowed out my light, and started up stairs very
corpse laying in the coffin with that bag of money on his stomach.  So
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
cottonwood that was out of reach, and watched.  There was a wood-rank
could do him any good; though he said it often made him feel easier and
could do it again.
could do it first-rate.  It seemed like he was just born for it; and when
could go and stay three or four days?"
could go, every jump of the way.
could have one or two of the chains took off, because they was rotten
could hear of a country that's out of kings."
could see everything and every face in that big crowd, and the shovelfuls
could see them sailing over fences and around corners from everywheres.
could stop fooling around straight off, and clear out with Jim before
could tell him from a king."
could think more than about a half a thought, and he never suspicioned I
could think up anything worse, I would do that, too; because as long as I
could use his right hand, you would see that he wrote his own letters and
could, I reckon.  And the shirt ain't all that's gone, nuther.  Ther's a
couldn't get her to take a-holt of one of them with the tongs.  And if
couldn't go if there was; because the runaway nigger told Burton and me
couldn't hear yourself think.  It was right down awkward, and nobody
couldn't look her in the face; and she set down on the bed and talked
couldn't make out how he was willing to go into this thing; so I just let
couldn't noway understand. Why, I couldn't a thought of them in a year.
couldn't see no advantage in my representing a prisoner if I got to set
couldn't seem to get my mouth to tell her what would make her see that
couldn't seem to strike no places to harden me against him, but only the
couldn't sleep, it was so lively, and it was always lively, he said,
couldn't tell them from the real kind.
couldn't try to quit being the kind of a boy I was and be better.  So I
counting; and as to the candlestick, it warn't no consequence, it would
country till we tired him out.  We never got him till dark; then we
couple of farmers with guns must stand watch around about the cabin every
couple of kags of toothpicks along, for if that rope ladder wouldn't
couple of the hounds bulging in from under Jim's bed; and they kept on
couple of weeks or two; and I says, all right, that suits me, but I ain't
couple of young chaps that was behind the wood-rank alongside of the
course they will.  And you wouldn't leave them any?  That would be a
course we allowed to have to steal it back.  I'm for knocking off and
cramp him down to business I don't know nothing what I'm talking about,
crawled into the wigwam and turned in for the night.  It was my watch
created.  Why, after every last snake had been gone clear out of the
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
crick 'mongst de willows, en dey wuz so much jawin' 'bout which un 'um
crick, so's to be all ready for to shove out en leave soon as Jack comes
cried.  I slept in the woods all night.  But what DID become of the raft,
crooked-handled cane, marked out the places on the ground where Boggs
crossbones on the front door; and next night another one of a coffin on
crossed over, but couldn't find nothing of them; so we cruised along
crowd closed up around them, and shouldered and jammed one another, with
crowd, and worked their way just by main strength to the mourners' bench,
crowded around him and tried to get him to shut up, but he wouldn't; they
crowded up with the tears in their eyes, and most shook the hands off of
cry; and then how they both did fire off questions about Sid, and Mary,
crying there, away in the night.  I was behind the door, and I was mighty
crying.  I felt awful bad to see it; of course anybody would.  I went in
crying; and all of a sudden the doctor ups and turns on THEM.  He says:
cupboard in a damp cellar all night and tastes like a hunk of old cold
curtain and a row of candles for footlights; and that night the house was
curtain made out of calico that hung down to the floor.  There was an old
cut-throats from over in the Indian Territory going to steal your runaway
d' I tell you?"  Then one of them says, kind of soft and gentle:
dancing-school; but they didn't know no more how to dance than a kangaroo
danger; but stead of that I will BA like a sheep soon as they get in and
dark and kill 'em when they come; and the rest scatter around a piece,
dark, and now and then she would belch a whole world of sparks up out of
dark, en we warn't so sk'yerd, en ben sich punkin-heads, as de sayin' is,
dat open innerds--jis' den, 'long come de wind en slam it to, behine de
dat young Harney Shepherdson, you know--leastways, so dey 'spec.  De
day in the wigwam tied with the rope.  You see, when we left him all
day, and he'd cipher out some way to get around it.
day." And away he went.
days till she didn't know how many sheets she had any more, and she
days we'd be here, and considerin' the bed a safe place, we not bein'
days. Why, you can get him so in a little while that he'll love you; and
daytime; but I says to myself, there's my two poor boys asleep, 'way up
de place o' what 'uz los'."
de river wid Miss Sophia.  I reck'n dey's gwyne to be mighty rough
dear William and me.  Now, WOULDN'T he?  Ther' ain't no question 'bout it
death.
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
dem witches jis' wunst--on'y jis' wunst--it's all I'd ast.  But mos'ly I
descendant of that infant--I am the rightful Duke of Bridgewater; and
dey is; dey's reglar rapscallions."
dey warn't no great harm done, on'y our traps was mos' all los'.  Ef we
did he sing out?" And turns to me, perfectly ca'm, and says, "Did YOU
did he?  A body can't hardly believe it, but he didn't.  I reckon he
did was a fraud and a liar.  The poor girls was hanging to the king and
didn't CARE, and warn't a-going to bullyrag the rest of her soul out
didn't find them--
didn't hold out; a steamboat run over the forrard corner of the raft one
didn't know no more than a person's conscience does I would pison him.
didn't like Jim; and so they'd lay for him, and make it mighty warm for
didn't look pretty comfortable over all that petting that was going on
didn't put it in, and that will show that I laid the Testament down and
didn't seem no good for ME to stay--I couldn't do nothing, and I didn't
didn't seem to know what to do.  But pretty soon they see that
didn't take notice nor let on.  I knowed what it was about.  He was
didn't tell him.  If I never learnt nothing else out of pap, I learnt
didn't think of it, and I reckoned it warn't best for me to mix in, but I
didn't want to see nobody just yet--I only wanted to get the lay of the
didn't wear no coats nor waistcoats, they called one another Bill, and
die first.
die first.  "I never thought, I was so stirred up," she says; "now go on,
died two months ago, and she was ashamed she ever was going to sell him
difference in the world; Juliet's in a balcony, enjoying the moonlight
difference whether you do right or wrong, a person's conscience ain't got
difference.
different from a common servant and HAD to go to church whether he wanted
different thing, and nobody but a mean, ornery person would steal when he
dig by, and a lantern makes too much, and might get us into trouble; what
digging, and then for a good little while I knowed that he was thinking.
dime and bite it to see if it was good, he whispers to Jim and says:
dinner, didn't you see a nigger man go in there with some vittles?"
disappointed, I didn't know why.  But at last, just as I was sailing by,
discuss about whether they was made or only just happened.  Jim he
diseased, and to miss seeing diseased alive after the long journey of
disgrace.  That was my fix exactly.  The more I studied about this the
disguise, and be ready to BA like a sheep and shove soon as you get
disremember now, and my new calico dress; and me and Silas and my Sid and
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
divided up so George's g'yirls would be all right--for George didn't
do is to droop your tails and go home and crawl in a hole.  If any real
do it?  I wish we'd a timed her.  And she hain't sweated a hair--not a
do no good.
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
do our DUTY, and not worry about whether anybody SEES us do it or not.
do, we was so sorry--and so glad and proud we'd got him with us, too.  So
do. He might tell who told him; then the king and the duke would make it
do."
do; and HE'S got to, too.  Huck, you don't ever seem to want to do
doctor and Uncle Silas followed after Tom into the house.  The men was
doctor hanging over them.  But the king says:
doctor lays on my mind.  I wanted to know your plans.  I've got a notion,
doctor's house, but they told me he'd gone away in the night some time or
does it mean?  Down by the wood-pile I comes across my Jack, and says:
does; so the first prance they made the general public jumped in and
doing some of the hurrying himself.  Somebody sings out:
doing the same; and the place was that damp I never see anything like it.
doings to go only just so fur and no further, I most dropped in my tracks
dollars' worth of advertisements for the paper, which he said he would
dollars.
dollars?"
don't blame them for it, either.  It ain't no crime in a prisoner to
don't care for that, I'm so glad to see you!  Dear, dear, it does seem
don't come EVERY year, and so he lays over the yaller-fever, for
don't ever see you again, I sha'n't ever forget you and I'll think of
don't fight with courage that's born in them, but with courage that's
don't know kings, Jim, but I know them; and this old rip of ourn is one
don't make no difference whether he's a natural one or an unnatural one."
don't make no difference, she was most awful beautiful, and her face and
don't mind the terms--I'd be willing to stand a thousand such jokes to
don't require documents--leastways I've heard there's such down South
don't send nobody to watch the nigger.  Jim could a got out of that
don't tell no way."
don't tell nobody 'bout it sah, er ole Mars Silas he'll scole me; 'kase
don't work your jaw any BETWEEN here and there."
don't you let on you see it at all.  And don't you look when Jim unloads
don't, either, I reckon.  But there's one thing, anyway--Jim's too old to
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate
done it elegant, too."  He'd got a start, and she never checked him up,
done it.  But I dasn't go fur, or she'd a sent for me.  And when it was
done that.  When I waked up just at daybreak he was sitting there with
done the same way, down South.
done with blood!  Must a ben a raft uv 'm at it right along, all the
door banged, Aunt Sally she jumped and said "ouch!" if anything fell, she
door was locked as good as ever. Tom was joyful.  He says;
door!  The nigger Nat he only just hollered "Witches" once, and keeled
dooryards was full; and every minute somebody would say, over a fence:
dote on it.  Specially, painful music; and you can't get no other kind
double.  I was letting ON to give up sin, but away inside of me I was
down and chaw over a lot of gold-leaf distinctions like that every time I
down and got the fox-fire, and put that in too.  I called it borrowing,
down and stay where I was; and I done it.  Been there ever since; afeard
down into such company."  And he begun to wipe the corner of his eye with
down on one knee to speak to him, and always called him "Your Majesty,"
down that way.  I see I'd got to invent a bar, or forget the name of the
down the river and landed at the other village this morning, and now he
down the river, and SAID so; and she set him free in her will."
down there, too, if I swim; and we'll take and tie him, and keep him, and
down to business, and nobody in sight around the yard; then Tom he
down--afraid you'll be found out to be what you are--COWARDS--and so
dreadful uneasy."
dress, and spoons, and tin plates, and case-knives, and the warming-pan,
dressed, and everything's ready.  Now we'll slide out and give the
driving them out.
dronings of bugs and flies in the air that makes it seem so lonesome and
dropped into a kind of a brown study; and pretty soon jumps up, and says:
dropping back to give them room, and all the talk and noise stopping,
drownd me.  But the duke says:
drunk nor sober."
drunk.  He's the best naturedest old fool in Arkansaw--never hurt nobody,
drunk; here he comes, boys!"
druther he wouldn't take no trouble about me.
druther not tell you why; and if you was to blow on them this town would
duds was all black, and he did look real swell and starchy.  I never
dug himself out that way; how long was HE at it, you reckon?"
duke and the king begun to lay out a plan for working them towns.  Jim he
duke he quit tending door and went around the back way and come on to the
duke looked sick.  But he took the pen and wrote.  So then the lawyer
duke on his hands, and blamed if he didn't drop a carpet-bag and bust out
duke says:
dumb person on the histronic boards.  So then they waited for a
dumb--en I'd ben a-treat'n her so!"
dying about the same time.  The second son of the late duke seized the
dying.  Tom jerked the door open and flung out a slab of Jim's meat, and
each other again inside of two weeks--here in this house--and PROVE how I
early in the mornings, and play your jews-harp; play 'The Last Link is
earnest, and was actuly going to help steal that nigger out of slavery.
earth, you know.  And then she says:
easiest nigger to laugh that ever was, anyway.
east reddens up, and the river, and you make out a log-cabin in the edge
easy--GIVEN back to us, flung at our heads, as you may say, when of
eating anything. And by and by the old man says:
ef you en Huck fetches a rattlesnake in heah for me to tame, I's gwyne to
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
electronic works
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
elegant little piles.  Everybody looked hungry at it, and licked their
else; and she's going to stick to them till they say they'll come, and
else; so we said we would, if he would tell us how.  He said we ought to
en I ain' got no use f'r no flower, nohow, en she'd be a pow'ful sight o'
en dey brings me truck to eat every night, en tells me how you's a-gitt'n
en save me, nemmine 'bout a doctor f'r to save dis one?'  Is dat like
en she tuck de sk'yarlet fever, en had a powful rough spell; but she got
end of wild foolishness like that, and I see I couldn't do anything at
enemy.  Said the Shepherdsons laid for them in ambush.  Buck said his
engrailed, and three invected lines on a field AZURE, with the nombril
enough for a million; but they was our dogs; so we stopped in our tracks
enough for him.  So when we see the raft was gone and we flat broke,
enough for one, but didn't look pretty safe for two.  I says:
enough in this case; and, besides, Jim's a nigger, and wouldn't
enough to tar and feather poor friendless cast-out women that come along
enough, and could see us; and he sings out:
enough."
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
evening.
ever count them any more.
ever cry."
ever happened to him, because he was a changed man now, and happy for the
ever see it growing, and it made the woods look solemn and dismal.  So
ever understand before, until that minute and that talk, how he COULD
ever undertook, that Tom most lost all patience with him; and said he was
ever was; and so he went on a-bragging about the tragedy, and about
every day to fetch you. And he's gone again, not more'n an hour ago;
every little while he fetched in his funeral orgies again, till the duke
every time one of them flopped down on her, it didn't make no difference
everybody and dog in town, by his name, and mentioned all sorts of little
everybody else mighty meek and quiet; and at last Uncle Silas, looking
everybody in it he could invent, and I getting a little nervious, and
everybody sings out.) "All right, then--not a word about any sell.  Go
everybody's wits clean inside out and scared us all most to death.  I've
everybody.  I COULDN'T understand it no way at all.  It was outrageous,
everything as still as a mouse.  Just the same outside.  Thinks I, what
everything in that blessed town, and all about the Wilkses; and about
everything square and above-board; and told me to come with a candle.  We
everything they could lay their hands on--and we a-watching all the time,
everything; but they couldn't seem to have no luck.  So at last they got
everytime; it don't fool nobody but a stranger; but Jack ain't no
everywheres, feeding out of the wagon-troughs and stomping to keep off
excited. Everybody that seen the shooting was telling how it happened,
excitement to offer them, they only just said howdy, and tore right ahead
expected it, and then like they HAD.  Then the duke says:
experience, and can't say for certain; but it looks so to me, anyway; and
explain THAT to me if you can!--ANY of you!"
explained all about how we blowed out a cylinder-head at the mouth of
eye lights up like he judged he'd got the king THIS time, and says:
eyes towards the road and the tears in them; and I wished I could do
eyes very natural, and takes a look, and says:
fambly foun' it out 'bout half an hour ago--maybe a little mo'--en' I
family in Baton Rouge that knowed his people very well.  Yes, I remember
family, or to Peter.  And he always let on that Peter wrote him the
fashion; and when they come they'll bring their masks, and fetch a MAN
fast, and make him swear to be silent as the grave, and put a purse full
father and brothers ought to waited for their relations--the Shepherdsons
father, crying, and saying, "Oh, he's killed him, he's killed him!"  The
fatherless and motherless.  Yes, and we that knowed him knows that he
feather right straight off, and my troubles all gone.  So I got a piece
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
fellows to the tavern and affront them with t'other couple, and I reckon
fellows would say to me if they catched me; and I tried to think what I'd
felt so in my life, and I knowed I could pray now.  But I didn't do it
fence, and some outbuildings down a piece the other side; ash-hopper and
fence, at midnight exact, with a false key, and go in the nigger's cabin
fetch along their suspicions now if they want to--this 'll lay 'em out."
fetch it.  And then mosey right down the lightning-rod and come along.
fetch one ef he gits a chanst."
fetched an armful and hid it in the weeds, and set down to rest, and Tom
fetched away a three-gallon jug of whisky, too, that he found under a
fetched first one and then another of them a clip and sent them howling,
fetched him over, and I started down for the raft.  When I got there and
fetched in the new couple.  First, the doctor says:
fetched it down, and unstopped the best rat-hole, and in about an hour we
fetched me so low when I was so high?  I did myself.  I don't blame YOU,
fetched the shore a half a mile above the village, and then went scooting
fetched their dinners with them from the country, and eat them in the
fields begins, and after the fields the woods.
fifteen of them packed together around me, with their necks and noses
fifteen or sixteen, drat that meddlesome cub, and they warn't the
fight--unless it might be putting turpentine on a stray dog and setting
find a chance time enough. I'll steal it and hide it; and by and by, when
find out who done it, s'I; 'n' moreover, s'I--"
finding the gold, and made a rush for the coffin, he lets go of me and
finish up the rest of that part of the work, which was to plan out a
fire to him, or tying a tin pan to his tail and see him run himself to
fire-faced the way he was when he come.  So I set down and laid for him
first one leg hanging most to the ground on one side, and then t'other
first time in his life; and, poor as he was, he was going to start right
first to one rat-hole and then another, till he'd been to them all.  Then
first, and spoon vittles to top off on."
fish laying around, gars and such, and they do get pretty rank; and next
fix I was in, and what did he reckon we better do?  He said, let him
flatfooted and said it was scandalous to separate the mother and the
flicker of the lightning, and sent a man to the nearest house, a half a
flung herself on to the king's breast at the front door and he kissed her
flung themselves down on the straw, just crazy and wild.
folks around.
folks does for their'n.  It don't seem natural, but I reckon it's so.  He
folks had to walk around her, and she'd stretch out and shut her eyes and
fooled and lied to so, but I didn't see no safe way for me to chip in and
fooling around--but we would ride.  I couldn't get him to let me stay and
foot in front of the wigwam.  Jim was satisfied.  He said it was a sight
footsteps coming, and was going to skip under the bed; I reached for it,
for I feel I may have confidence in you.  By rights I am a duke!"
for I see our chance; and I made up my mind that it would be a long day
for a minute I didn't say nothing; then I says:
for a watch, and is always seeing what time it is, and so there ain't
for bed.
for being prisoner for us so patient, and doing it up so good, and Jim
for dear life towards the middle of the river, but didn't make no more
for down-stairs; but as I come to the girls' room the door was open, and
for forty pies if we'd a wanted them, and plenty left over for soup, or
for half price if there was a bidder.  But after that we was all right
for he believed Jim would come to like it better and better the more he
for he respected everybody, he liked everybody, and so it's fitten that
for him, and then he wouldn't have nothing to do but just follow the
for it.
for legs. They didn't have no backs.  The preachers had high platforms to
for me to hail.  So there I had to stick plumb until daylight this
for me was too good to be comfortable, and besides I didn't go much on
for me. The world may go on just as it's always done, and take everything
for music and go for him.  Jim didn't like the spiders, and the spiders
for spare rooms, and she said she had one spare room, which would do for
for sympathy all he knowed how, and just spreading himself generly.
for the blessing; and then she went to sluicing out coffee with one hand
for the island where my raft was; and we could hear them yelling and
for the land's sake, DID you get these amaz'n pickles?" and all that kind
for the prisoner's mother to change clothes with him, and she stays in,
for them desperadoes, and saying it warn't but a few minutes to midnight;
for them, and let them lean on them and cry, and told the king all about
for thirty-seven year, 'n' all that--natcherl son o' Louis somebody, 'n'
for to make some pens for Jim out of, and six tallow candles; and I hung
for what you want, above all things, on a raft, is for everybody to be
for, young man?"
force out compliments; and the people all knowed everything was tiptop,
fork into it in three or four places first.
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
forth contagion on the world, And thus the native hue of resolution, like
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
forty dollars, becuz he's got to go up the river and can't wait.  Think
foun' her ketched on a snag along heah in de ben', en dey hid her in a
found the canoe; and when I got here I told Jim to hurry, or they'd catch
found the paper, and as soon as she read it she looked glad; and before a
four foot high a little ways in front of the tree, and first I was going
four hundred and fifteen dollars short.  Says the king:
four thousand mile, but it's a trial that's sweetened and sanctified to
fraud that's got to make signs, and ain't learnt how.  Lost their
frauds, and they may have complices that we don't know nothing about.  If
free and easy, and if anybody ever come meddling around, he must hop out
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
friend, and an honest one that wants to protect you and keep you out of
friend, and let him quit the thing right where he was and save himself.
friend, and you'll be back to-night or early in the morning."
friendly towards him, and said the duke's great-grandfather and all the
friends here, who ought to know better.  Mary Jane Wilks, you know me for
frock that night, and put it on, and shoved it under the front door, the
from Judge Thatcher and drunk it up.
from me--loved ones, property, everything; but it can't take that.
from memory.  I'll just walk up and down a minute, and see if I can call
from table--same key, I bet.  Watermelon shows man, lock shows prisoner;
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
from the robbers, and get up and down the lightning-rod, and dig the hole
from the very start--left us to do EVERYTHING.  They're so confiding and
from there in a hurry, but they was pretty close to me then, and sung out
front, and see her setting there by her candle in the window with her
front, and the country people hitched their horses to the awning-posts.
frowning and having his hat-brim down over his eyes, and sung out,
full of joy; but when I glimpsed him in the lightning my heart shot up in
fun of him, and that made him mad, and he begun to rip and tear; so that
funeral orgies again every now and then, just like he done before.  And
furnish 'em to a king."
furnished to you by the people who it was their duty to furnish them, and
further and further away all the time, we couldn't hardly hear them at
fust place, it's what I says in the middle, 'n' it's what I says last 'n'
gangs of men gallop past the log store with guns; so I reckoned the
gardens around them, but they didn't seem to raise hardly anything in
gasps, his breast lifting the Bible up when he drawed in his breath, and
generly landed in your plate, or down the back of your neck, and most of
gentleman was spinning truth and t'other one lies.  And by and by they
gentlemen--far from it; I don't blame anybody.  I deserve it all.  Let
get 'em to send for you;" which made them all laugh, and they said it was
get aground?"
get down and look under the bed.  Then I was glad I hadn't found the bed
get it again, and it 'll be a long day before he gives anybody another
get it hitched on good."
get me and Jim rid of the frauds; get them jailed here, and then leave.
get me out of their claws, and I'd be all right; but there'd be another
get that money; and the way we've fixed it the sale ain't going to count,
get the reward.  Handcuffs and chains would look still better on Jim, but
get to be as sociable as flies.  But you got to play music to them.  You
get to the village.  Shut the door and blindfold the doctor tight and
get up and write a little in his journal whilst the ink was fresh; the
get up, or lay down, or SET down, Sister Ridgeway.  Why, they'd steal the
get."
getting his Romeo and Juliet by heart.  When he had got it pretty good
getting people and things all ship-shape and comfortable, and making no
git him.  And tell him to git himself up regardless.  Shove along, now."
give Ben Thompson the last chaw I had"--which is a lie pretty much
give Uncle Harvey and William my love and a kiss, and say I've run over
give anybody a chance.  He had suspicions of his father, the Duke of
give me a pull, and out I come; and when he turned back from the window
give us your hand, duke, and le's all be friends."
gives notice to the governor of the castle.  When Louis XVI. was going to
glad of that; but the way Buck did take on because he didn't manage to
glide along the wall, just his shoulders showing over the people's heads.
glided around three sides of the room, and then rose up, and shaded his
gloves with his softy soothering ways, putting on the last touches, and
go all holts and made that rush to get a look we'd a slept in our cravats
go back to the estate.  These yer orphans 'll git their house back agin,
go down to the town and fix that thing.  The king allowed he would go,
go home--he must go right away.  But it didn't do no good.  He cussed
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
goes out of this--because he's going out RIGHT, and there ain't going to
goin' to scrabble all them crazy things onto a grindstone, s'I?  Here
going on talking; but she jumped up and wiped it off with the back of her
going on.  By and by a proud-looking man about fifty-five--and he was a
going to be some more trouble amongst them; so we was pretty glad when
going to deceive a steamboat clerk? is he going to deceive a SHIP CLERK?
going to do?--how you going to get around it?  Jim's GOT to do his
going to give the king and the duke a hint, and so if I didn't hurry up
going to jump on to a horse; some sickly grass-patches in the big yard,
going to let them come to no harm.  There's Hobson, the Babtis' preacher;
gold done us a still bigger kindness; for if the excited fools hadn't let
gone!  I set up a shout--and then another--and then another one; and run
gone.
gone."
good and pious that you'd say he had walked right out of the ark, and
good he always was; and at last I struck the time I saved him by telling
good nigger, en pooty smart."
good time.  I was powerful glad to get away from the feuds, and so was
good to the poor pirates away off there; and every little while the
good," he says; "but I bet we can find a way that's twice as long.  There
good-bye cussing, and then the old doctor comes and takes a look, and
goodness he'd been robbed last night and put ashore off of a steamboat
goody-goody Amen, and turns himself loose and goes to crying fit to bust.
goody-goody saying of some kind, and the duke he was around goo-gooing
got a long ways below the town.  We come in sight of the little bunch of
got allycumpain and rubbed on the places, and was pretty near all right
got anything to play music on?"
got around last night that I had a way of puttin' in my time with a
got away as quick as I could.  I cried a little when I was covering up
got by myself I went to thinking the thing over.  I says to myself, shall
got everything all right, and as soon as he was by himself he busted into
got him back, safe and sound, and he's in that cabin again, on bread and
got hurt a little, and we didn't never want to try THAT no more.  And
got it or not?  Why, you talk like a muggins."
got no money for to buy the outfit, and I reckon I couldn't get none from
got off.  The king never said nothing about going aboard, so I lost my
got religgion and wish to quit it and lead an honest life again, and will
got that one."
got the first jolt.  A couple of nigger traders come along, and the king
got the letter at all, you know."
got to do is to lift up the bedstead and slip off the chain.  And Uncle
got to remember what they are, and make allowances.  Sometimes I wish we
got to travel with them a while longer, whether I want to or not--I
got up there to the front benches in a crowd, they sung and shouted and
got used to it.  He said that in that way it could be strung out to as
gown off of me and wear it, and we'll all evade together.  When a
grab her up in my arms, en say, 'Oh, de po' little thing!  De Lord God
grain I DID say.  I reckon he can stand a little thing like that, can't
grand to see.  But by and by the king tripped and fell overboard, and
graveyard, which was a mile and a half down the river, and the whole town
grease around the sawed place so the very keenest seneskal can't see no
greasy blue woollen shirt, and ragged old blue jeans britches stuffed
grindstone, and set out to roll her home, but it was a most nation tough
grindstone, s'I; want to tell ME't any cretur 't's in his right mind 's a
grindstone; the bed-leg was sawed in two, and we had et up the sawdust,
groan, and some begun to shout.  Then the preacher begun to preach, and
ground, heavy and solid, with his arms spread out.  That young girl
guess we'll add a little more to it.  We want a little something to
gules for supporters, which is you and me; motto, MAGGIORE FRETTA, MINORE
had a gun.  I was most powerful sick, and slunk to a chair and set down.
had a long gabble, and I told Jim everything.
had a supper; and by and by, about midnight, they made Jim and me back
had been happening, but I couldn't tell.
had fifteen of the bulliest kind of ones; and then we took it and put it
had got up that joke all out of his own head, and never let on to nobody.
had it in mind to do it, but you DONE it."
had linsey-woolsey frocks, some gingham ones, and a few of the young ones
had me up to tell what I knowed.  The king he give me a left-handed look
had on calico.  Some of the young men was barefooted, and some of the
had so much trouble, he'd forgot it.
had the odd spoon, and dropped it in her apron-pocket whilst she was
had the places wouldn't give them up, and folks behind them was saying
had to make up the pictures of coffins and things, and nonnamous letters
had to stand it--there warn't no other way, and I knowed he wouldn't
had.
hadn' dive' so deep en swum so fur under water, en de night hadn' ben so
hadn't come of it, she judged she better put in her time being grateful
hadn't done nothing.  But that's always the way; it don't make no
hadn't ever done me no harm, and now was showing me there's One that's
hadn't ever dreamed of seeing the family separated or sold away from the
hadn't ever seen his brother William at all--that's the deef and dumb
hain't been so put out since I don't know when.  But I don't care, I
hain't touched them.  But I knowed they'd make trouble, and I thought if
hair and a big white fur stovepipe hat on the back of his head, and a
hair trunk in one corner, and a guitar-box in another, and all sorts of
hair. It's wonderful.  Why, I wouldn't take a hundred dollars for that
half-past eleven, and Tom put on Aunt Sally's dress that he stole and
hall and the parlor and the dining-room was full.  I see the coffin lid
hand, and says:
hand, and was plenty kind enough, but he never let go my hand.
hand, hard, and says:
hand, singing out, "Begone YOU Tige! you Spot! begone sah!" and she
hands is my best holt--for cancer and paralysis, and sich things; and I
hands on their thighs to watch him mark the places on the ground with his
hands to the duke, and both of them took on about that dead tanner like
hands, and the duke he looks at him stupid and leather-headed a while;
hands, and there I had to stick till about dawn this morning; then some
hanging down from the limbs like long, gray beards.  It was the first I
hanging on to his neck, and his heels flying in the air every jump, and
hard lot for a duke.  When he's drunk there ain't no near-sighted man
hard work and slow, and didn't give my hands no show to get well of the
hard; I spec' I ain't ever gwyne to see you no mo', no mo'!"  He was a
hardly go any more, I had told them more about my family--I mean the
hardly stand--and says:
hardly.  At last I says:
hardness against them any more in the world.  It was a dreadful thing to
hare-lip done the same on the other.  Everybody clapped their hands and
hare-lip jumped for the duke, and there they HAD it!  Everybody most,
harm and trouble, to turn your backs on that scoundrel and have nothing
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
harrow along, can you?  Well, these kind of mumps is a kind of a harrow,
harum-scarum lot as fur as she could see; and so, as long as no harm
has deceived you; Nichols's place is down a matter of three mile more.
has hogged that bag on the sly?--now how do I know whether to write to
hat around!"  Then everybody said it, the preacher too.
hat on my head, and the next second she see me; and she says:
haul out yaller-boys out of his pocket.
have a nigger on watch at both doors all night.  Tom he went down the
have adventures plumb to the mouth of the river, and then tell him about
have but one hinge--a leather one.  Some of the fences had been
have no reasoning faculties no more.  It looks foolish enough NOW, in the
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
have their own way.
have to raise it up and look under to see the hole.  So we dug and dug
have took too long to MAKE so many.  Jim said the moon could a LAID them;
have you here. Well, to think of that performance!  I don't deny it, I
have."
he calls it.  He is the thinnest kind of an impostor--has come here with
he come along.  I says "Hold on!" and it stopped alongside, and his mouth
he come ca'm and important, like the ram.  When he got a-front of us he
he could afford it, and was going to run it for cash.  He set up a little
he could see under the curtain of the awning and yells:
he could use them over again.  So Tom was satisfied.  Then he says:
he couldn't stand it no more; so he writes on a little scrap of paper,
he counted it and stacked it up, three hundred dollars in a pile--twenty
he didn't know what to do.  And he wanted to know all about it right off,
he don't care what kind of a--"
he done it, too, and done it very well.  Of course I judged he must be a
he forgot all about what he'd been a-going to do.  So Tom says:
he had a bullet in the calf of his leg.
he had ciphered out two or three ways, but there warn't no need to decide
he had his hand in and was excited, it was perfectly lovely the way he
he judged she'd give it up and offer to kill anybody that wanted her to
he lived.  But I said, leave it alone till by and by; and told his driver
he loaded up his gun en 'lowed he's gwyne to fetch home a Shepherdson or
he made the trip.
he said NOW she couldn't ever count them spoons twice alike again to save
he said it warn't much use, he couldn't be much comforted; said if we was
he said it was all right, and we set there and talked over old times
he say dey AIN'T no witches.  I jis' wish to goodness he was heah now
he says:
he says:
he set there, and pretty soon he begun to smile, and says:
he stood about five minutes, picking tallow-drip off of his candle and
he wanted done.
he was on hand and looking his level pisonest, up there longside of the
he wouldn't do it.  You might pump at him a week, it wouldn't make no
he'd show me a lot of water-moccasins.  If anything happens HE ain't
he'd spent for whisky; and when I got him home late last night and found
he'd wake up in his right mind.
he'll be back any minute now. You must a met him on the road, didn't
he'll believe you when you explain to him what the idea was for getting
he?"
head and smiled proud.  The doctor says:
head once in a while, but Jim never said nothing, and he never let on to
heads to show they understood, and stooping a little and resting their
heap the best dressed man in that town, too--steps out of the store, and
heap worse than ourn done.  I don't say that ourn is lambs, because they
hear Jim ain't from there.  Then his next move will be to advertise Jim,
hear anybody sing out?"
hear guns a good ways off.  When I came in sight of the log store and the
heard a whack, and the dog he finished up with a most amazing howl or
heard somebody coming down the stairs, back behind me.  I run in the
heard the beat of it.  Who's THEY?"
heard the children say their pa and ma was going to the runaway nigger's
heard them on the water, so we got a canoe and took out after them and
hearn me: he's crazy, s'I; everything shows it, s'I.  Look at that-air
heart in him and was a good man the first time I see him.  Then they all
heave a brickbat in a mud-puddle, and he says:
heavy, or could have meat and greens with his bread and water; but they
help a body set a nigger free with his bringing-up.
hence inTER.  So, you see, funeral orgies is an open er public funeral."
heptarchies that used to rip around so in old times and raise Cain.  My,
her I see the water come into her eyes, too; and she shook me by the
her chimbleys, and they would rain down in the river and look awful
her eyes was all lit up like glory, she was so glad her uncles was come.
her go.  When I struck Susan and the hare-lip, I says:
her hand; and behind her comes her little white children, acting the same
her hips and every gentleman folded his arms, and then how the horses did
her life; and wouldn't believe she'd counted them right if she DID; and
her loose!  Boys, we done it elegant!--'deed we did.  I wish WE'D a had
her money!
her now that I warn't to blame on account of the rats.  But never mind
her old gray head was resting on her hand, and she was asleep.
her out and float her down the middle of the river, and fetch her in and
her powwow shut off and leave the river still again; and by and by her
her to; then we lit the pipes, and dangled our legs in the water, and
her tongue was a-going all the time.  She says:
her what the paper was about, and she asked me if I had read it, and I
her where I could find her again when I wanted her, about a quarter of a
here am I, forlorn, torn from my high estate, hunted of men, despised by
here and feel of me if you don't believe me."
here at the last minute, lo and behold you, they slides right in under
here's THESE two handwritings, and anybody can see they didn't write
here, and the evasion booming along so handsome; man the sweeps, and set
here, did that make you think you had grit enough to lay your hands on a
here.  And when you tell him the handbill and the reward's bogus, maybe
herself in the night, and them devils laying there right under her own
hey?"
hickry-bark ladder?  Why, it's perfectly ridiculous."
hid Mary Jane's frocks, so I jumped in behind that and snuggled in
hid behind her.  So she run on:
hide her about two mile below town.
him a minute, and then he started around for the stage door, I after him;
him and his wife both died last year.  Harvey and William's the only ones
him and the duke begun to practice it together.  The duke had to learn
him in a butt of mamsey, like a cat.  S'pose people left money laying
him in the leg, and we wanted him to go over there and fix it and not say
him last.  So he set his ear to the crack and listened, and listened, and
him out and rush him away the first time there's an alarm.  Yes, I reckon
him over and over again how to say every speech; and he made him sigh,
him over the BORDER--that's what we'd a done with HIM--and done it just
him the key and done with it.  Picks and shovels--why, they wouldn't
him to sell out as quick as he wanted to, they would be ready.  Them poor
him up.  I told him me and my brother was over on Spanish Island hunting
him, and chained him again, and not to no bed-leg this time, but to a big
him, and flew for the house to get the bed ready, and scattering orders
him.
him.
him.  And he said that between the rats and the snakes and the grindstone
him.  I poked into the place a-ways and come to a little open patch as
him.  That WOULD be a pretty howdy-do.  Come out from under that bed,
him.  We didn't have no dog, and so we had to chase him all over the
him?"
himself and not tied it wouldn't look much like he was a runaway nigger,
himself in a back yard, and he said everybody that warn't too young or
himself up and slobbers out a speech, all full of tears and flapdoodle
hired the courthouse, and we went around and stuck up our bills.  They
his arm, and both of them had big, fat, ratty-looking carpet-bags.
his arm, thinking, and wrinkling up his forehead.  At last he says:
his arms and his body going all the time, and shouting his words out with
his being free, and take him back up home on a steamboat, in style, and
his blood, and all that. He told him everything.  Jim he couldn't see no
his brains out, he thought he'd got to give it up; but after he was
his brother's last moments, and the king he told it all over again on his
his cavortings on the stage; then somebody give a signal, and the house
his coat and said he was all right now.  So me and the king lit out for
his foot a chain embattled, for slavery, with a chevron VERT in a chief
his funeral orgies sh'd be public."
his hand on his forehead and stagger back and kind of moan; next he would
his head down betwixt his knees, moaning and mourning to himself.  I
his head in my mouf--fer a favor, hain't it?  I lay he'd wait a pow'ful
his head to one side, and chawed his tongue, and scrawled off something;
his might, and so tight he couldn't walk, and couldn't do nothing to
his natural rest that morning, and he'd be blamed if he'd ever do it
his place it would make you feel ashamed; and so you oughtn't to say a
his pocket.  Then we went to the nigger cabins, and while I got Nat's
his right hand--not aiming it, but holding it out with the barrel tilted
his speech, he howled, and spread around, and swelled up his chest, and
his straw tick and sleep on it.  Then we helped him fix his chain back on
his whip and made him fairly hum--and finally skipped off, and made his
hoisted up our signal lantern; and about ten o'clock it come on to rain
holding on to the biggest one of all.  I was trying to make my mouth SAY
home in the morning anyway.  She said, don't say nothing about the
home that had characters; and he was bright and not leather-headed; and
home, because it's likely pap's been back before now, and got it all away
home; so Harvey 'll know where to look for friends when he gets here."
honey, and all the pet names he could think of; and was for having us
honey, and pet me and do everything he could think of for me, and how
hooky.  I should HOPE we can find a way that's a little more complicated
horse begun to rip and tear and jump and cavort around, with two circus
horse broke loose, and away he went like the very nation, round and round
horse now--I wouldn't, honest; and yet I'd a sold her for fifteen
horse.  He was a-reeling across the street towards me, bare-headed, with
horses and runaway niggers on them, all over the walls.  The duke shed
horses!  The boys jumped for the river--both of them hurt--and as they
hosses YOU never see!  De women folks has gone for to stir up de
hot embers on top, and stood off five foot, with the long handle, cool
hot.  They can't bile that amount of water away off there at the sea.
hounds asleep round about; about three shade trees away off in a corner;
hour they was as thick as thieves again, and the tighter they got the
hour, but we done the job tight and good and shipshape.  Then we heard
hours the shores was black--no more sparks in the cabin windows.  These
house about the time you ought to; and I'll go towards town a piece, and
house and a stranger, and it wasn't good of you to say it.  If you was in
house for as much as a week Aunt Sally warn't over it yet; she warn't
house this morning, and then went to breakfast, and Tom dropped the
house, so I struck out for de woods to wait for day.  Early in de mawnin'
house; the wagon was spinning up the road for the village, and we was all
how DID they git that grindstone in there, s'I.  Without HELP, mind you
how good it was all this happened so, and how near I come to being lost
how it had got to be done; then he give the book to the king and told him
how the lawyer had took them in), "and here's THIS old gentleman's hand
how the people yelled and laughed, and kept it up.  But I didn't see no
how to do everything.
how to find them.  Gimme a pencil and a piece of paper.  There--'Royal
how to make it when he gets to it."
how we could alter them in a minute any time there was an alarm; and not
howdy."
howl that you would think the house was afire.  She disturbed the old man
howling adventures amongst the Injuns, over in the Territory, for a
http://gutenberg.net/license).
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
hub of a wheel, as you may say--spokes made out of dogs--circle of
hundred yards further along, I kept my eyes peeled, but didn't see nobody
hungry."
hunt up a cold-chisel to cut the chain off of his leg with right away,
hunted around there for the king, and by and by we found him in the back
hurry and settle up the estate right away and leave for home.  He was
if I NEVER got to glory.  It must take 'em a week."
if I didn't think the ice was getting mighty thin sometimes.  She says:
if I wanted to, and see all the fun, and have Mary Jane at my back to
if it don't work."
if you didn't put the money there, say it, and I'll b'lieve you, and take
imaginary blue-arrow mark.  That WAS bright--it was right down bully; and
in Drury Lane; and then he makes them another bow, and says if he has
in MY mind.  Well, then, what kind o' brothers would it be that 'd stand
in a bundle, and took the canoe and cleared for shore.  I landed below
in a dungeon:  we got to dig the inscriptions into a rock.  We'll fetch a
in a roundabout way amongst the islands, and search him and take his
in a safe place under Aunt Sally's bed.  But while we was gone for
in a tight place is taking considerable many resks, though I ain't had no
in about five or ten minutes we heard the dogs and the men away off,
in and says, "Oh, go on and call me Aunt Sally, I'm used to it now, and
in behine de chile, sof' en still, en all uv a sudden I says POW! jis' as
in by the time midnight come last night.  I hope to gracious if I warn't
in daylight without it being dangersome for Jim; so he allowed he would
in his pocket, and says:
in his way at sech a time?  And what kind o' uncles would it be that 'd
in it.
in it.  It was only a little thing to do, and no trouble; and it's the
in my opinion she had more sand in her than any girl I ever see; in my
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
in such a dangerous fix; and when they was all took by surprise by
in the band of Uncle Silas's hat, which was on the bureau, because we
in the book--I've only got one volume--but I reckon I can piece it out
in the cottonwoods and was safe.
in the dark, and wasn't ever going to be before me no more in this world.
in the front row at the head of the coffin, and for a half an hour the
in the long run.  I've tried 'em all, and ther' ain't no better way."
in the palace at Sheffield they've got furnaces, and he wants his water
in the time.  It was a monstrous big river down there--sometimes a mile
in the water, so as to be comfortable, and lit his pipe, and went to
in the world that was human--just looked like a couple of monstrous big
in this world to see HIM before he died; never talked about nothing else
in town on our side?  And ain't that a big enough majority in any town?"
in your rags and sin and dirt! the waters that cleanse is free, the door
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
independence, and dares them to come on.  That was HIS style--he never
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
infant-schooliest ways of going at a thing.  Why, hain't you ever read
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
innocent sleep, Great nature's second course, And makes us rather sling
innocent-looking young country jake setting on a log swabbing the sweat
inquire around for HIM when you got loose?  I don't remember it."
inscription and coat of arms.  They all do."
inside o' the straw tick o' my bed, not wishin' to bank it for the few
intellectural; and said if he only could see his way to it we would keep
intending to give me the slip one of these days, and come back and dig it
intending to go; but after that I wouldn't a went, not for kingdoms.
interest, when he does come.  Tom was over the stile and starting for the
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
into a picnic if they want to--they brought plenty provisions."
into his boot-tops, and home-knit galluses--no, he only had one.  He had
into that grindstone and walked her along like nothing; and Tom
into the cabin, and made the rope ladder and send it in cooked up in a
into the parlor, where the corpse was laying, and there was a candle in
into the woods; because Tom said we got to have SOME light to see how to
intrust, nuther."
invite everybody to come to the funeral--wants me to make 'em all
invited here this evenin'; but tomorrow we want ALL to come--everybody;
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
is before I'M done with you."
is better and actuly SAFER than a lie.  I must lay it by in my mind, and
is it my fault any more'n it's yourn?"
is, the scratches he makes ain't properly WRITING at all.  Now, here's
islan'?  I TOLE you I got a hairy breas', en what's de sign un it; en I
island.  Then the first dark night that comes steal the key out of the
it DIS time.  But it's awluz jis' so; people dat's SOT, stays sot; dey
it a many and a many a time, all these long years, and it's come at last!
it admirable.  Lots of the principal people gethered around the king, to
it again, and keep on saying it, because it done her good, and she was in
it ain't there no more.  I'm awful sorry, Miss Mary Jane, I'm just as
it all around, it laid over any day he'd ever put in in the missionarying
it all out, and you couldn't see nothing at all.
it and went to work, and never said a word.
it anywheres; then the nice breeze springs up, and comes fanning you from
it around every which way as we went along, and heaving in new
it back from recollection's vaults."
it bully, Aunty!"
it does take it off, too, and generly the enamel along with it--but I
it down the river with what we've got.  Specially, seeing we got it so
it go, and never bothered no more about it.  If he was bound to have it
it off like coarse print.  Do you reckon you can go and face your uncles
it pretty good.  Then he says:
it there, and opened the door of it to see if the rats would come out,
it to get out; but there ain't only just the one way:  we got to dig him
it up all the rest of our lives and leave Jim to our children to get out;
it up away down in the woods, and cooked it there; and we got it done at
it warn't no trouble to him to throw in an amount of style that was
it was all right now, and I told Tom I was a-going for a doctor.  He
it was all she could do to keep from giving him a crack with it.  "What
it was dangersome, because sometimes a strip of land as wide as a house
it was so still, and sounds come so far; and by and by you could see a
it was the thing that saved us.  For if it hadn't been for that they'd a
it where his money was hid, and how he wanted the rest of the property
it would keep peace in the family; and it warn't no use to tell Jim, so I
it would make us all celebrated that had a hand in it.
it wouldn't go well with the story of us being so poor.  Too much like
it wouldn't make no more talk than breaking into a soap factory."
it's MIGHTY likely!" and shook me up again, and said he reckoned he'd
it's Sid; Tom's--Tom's--why, where is Tom?  He was here a minute ago."
it's above the man's head then you hear the K'CHUNK!--it had took all
it's handed back, and says, sarcastic:
it's hid.  But I better hive it tonight if I can, because the doctor
it's the regular way.  And there ain't no OTHER way, that ever I heard
it's too, too hard!"
it's your'n; and you turn back and fool along slow, so as to get to the
it, I'm a nigger. It was enough to make a body ashamed of the human race.
it, because she told me so herself."
it, it can have all of MY custom every time.
it, it wouldn't answer at all; he ain't our nigger, and his owner would
it, s'I.  Sh-she, Sister Hotchkiss, sh-she--"
it, too.
it, up and down, hour in, hour out, and nobody never said a word about
it, we got to hunt up something to make a saw out of the first chance we
it--every one of them.  But I'm sorry, m'am, and I won't do it no more
it--stop up his rat-holes."
it.
it.  And they train them, and pet them, and learn them tricks, and they
it.  But at supper, at night, one of the little boys says:
it.  I was too small when pap used to have 'em at the palace.  Do you
it.  We can spare it."
it. But the duke says:
it. Her face would give them a hint, sure; they've got the money, and
it."
it."
it."
it; Tom said he'd GOT to; there warn't no case of a state prisoner not
it; and there warn't no floor to the shed, nor nothing in it but some old
it?"
it?"
jailed us till them Englishmen's baggage come--and then--the
jailed."
jailed; I'd better lay low and keep dark, and not write at all; the
jam full of men in no time.  When the place couldn't hold no more, the
jaws, But get thee to a nunnery--go!
jewelry.  Ropes are the correct thing--we must preserve the unities, as
job. Sometimes, do what we could, we couldn't keep her from falling over,
joined the hut at the eaves, and was made out of plank.  It was as long
joke about it, and I judged it would strain the duke and the king some to
journey by yourselves?  YOU know they'll wait for you.  So fur, so good.
judged I ought to told her father about that paper and the curious way
judged I'd get the doctor's yarn to Aunt Sally somehow or other as soon
judged that we was free and safe once more.  I hadn't had a bite to eat
judged we could get some of them again.  No, there warn't no real
jump aboard and get out of that awful country.  The raft was gone!  My
jump for it now, and not a minute to lose--the house full of men, yonder,
jumped and said "ouch!" if you happened to touch her, when she warn't
just about dead broke, and laid around the raft as she floated along,
just as good to load up a pie with, and hide in a straw tick, as any rag
just exactly the way it all happened.  Then as much as a dozen people got
just knocked the spots out of any acting ever I see before.  This is the
just loadened down with more gaudier chances than a prisoner ever had in
just makes a soft kind of a glow when you lay them in a dark place.  We
just set and stared and stared, and let him clip along, and I see it
just so.  He said they was made that way for some reason or other.
just the way:  a person does a low-down thing, and then he don't want to
k'n tell a fortune pretty good when I've got somebody along to find out
keep it up right along, year in and year out, and do it right, and the
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
kept a-raging right along, running her insurrection all by herself, and
kept it up; and it WAS the worst mixed-up thing you ever see.  They made
key come from the house.
kill Harney that day he shot at him--I hain't ever heard anything like
kind of foolish, fishes up that spoon out of his pocket.  She stopped,
kind of wondering, and says:
kind that makes you feel like when you are eating bread that's got sand
kind.  She had the grit to pray for Judus if she took the notion--there
kinder felt like he was watching me.  But I knowed I could tire him out
kinder lonesome after George and his wife died, and didn't seem to care
king and the duke turned out by and by looking pretty rusty; but after
king and the duke, but I says:
king he read it out loud and cried over it.  It give the dwelling-house
king's hands, and says, "Take this six thousand dollars, and invest for
king, goo-gooing with all his might for joy, and hugs him about fifteen
kings nor dukes at all, but just low-down humbugs and frauds.  But I
kit and biling of ye; and don't come nigh me again till I've got back my
kitchen; and there was things enough on that table for seven families
kneeled down and looked in; then she put up her handkerchief, and I see
kneeled down.  But the words wouldn't come.  Why wouldn't they?  It
know HOW she was ever going to be happy there, knowing the mother and the
know I have done the right thing. UNKNOWN FRIEND.
know how to make it.  I hain't ever hearn er sich a thing b'fo'."
know how to make letters, besides; but Tom said he would block them out
know it--will you go to Mr. Lothrop's and stay four days?"
know me, and they took him to the same cabin, and put his own clothes on
know nothing at all the rest of the day, and preached a prayer-meeting
know where Jim is."
know whether the money was in there or not.  So, says I, s'pose somebody
know, and she doesn't bray like a jackass."
know.
know. They gripped us all, and marched us right along, straight for the
knowed he was dead years ago, but I never let on.  So when I says he goes
knowed how clothes could change a body before.  Why, before, he looked
knowed it wouldn't stay the way, it was.  I knowed he would be changing
knowed mighty well that whenever he got HIS plan ready it wouldn't have
knowed very well why they wouldn't come.  It was because my heart warn't
knowed what a trouble it was to make a book I wouldn't a tackled it, and
knowing and not ignorant; and not mean, but kind; and yet here he was,
ladder to the battlements, shin down it, break your leg in the moat
ladder you can start; and as for Jim, he ain't had no experience, and so
ladder, sh-she; 'n' s'I, yes, LOOK at it, s'I--what COULD he a-wanted of
ladder."
laid it down, and fetched it, and give it to her.  She says:
laid it on the mantel-shelf, and never said nothing, and went out.  Tom
land. According to my plan, I was going to turn up there from the
lantern till we was clear out of sight of it.
large things by Nat, the nigger that fed him, and he must be on the
last Christmas your uncle Silas was coming up from Newrleans on the old
last he nudged us, and we slid out, and stooped down, not breathing, and
last the job was through, and the undertaker begun to sneak up on the
last, and very satisfactory, too; but not all in one day; and we had to
last, which was according to Tom's orders.  Now we was in the lean-to,
late in the day the people all went, and then I come in and told her the
laughed and said all right, and the man got on. The minute he was on, the
laughing and carrying on, and singing out:
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
lay off and work his brains an hour or two and see if he couldn't put up
lay you'll be the Methusalem-numskull of creation before ever I ask you
lazying along the street and whollop herself right down in the way, where
lead him the profitable way--meaning the devil, I reckon.  We had all
leading me by the hand, and the children tagging after.  When we got
lean over and hump themselves!  And so one after the other they all
lean-to for a hammer, and told him to work till the rest of his candle
learnt you there that people that acts as I'd been acting about that
leastways women, cried for joy to see them meet again at last and have
leave it, it mayn't be no 'count, s'I, but sich as 't is, it's my
leave nothing.  And that letter was all they could get him to put a pen
leave to go and get help; and he got a little worse and a little worse,
leave; and they've took my nigger, which is the only nigger I've got in
leaving her, and so she'd sell him straight down the river again; and if
left three or four thousand in cash hid up som'ers."
left?  It ain't unlikely.  If these men ain't frauds, they won't object
leg just in three shakes of a sheep's tail, as the saying is? spos'n it
legs, and said he warn't to have nothing but bread and water to eat after
let her slide!"
let him ride if he thought he could stay on the horse.  So everybody
let him see they was on his side.  That old gentleman that had just come
let on it's a lightning-rod."
let on to pray all to themselves.  Well, when it come to that it worked
let the world know where he's captivated, he can write it on the bottom
let you walk.  And, besides, I've already told 'em to put on another
letting it down again when he breathed it out--and after that he laid
letting me know my wickedness was being watched all the time from up
letting on ain't no trouble; and if it's any object, I don't mind letting
letting on, because you don't know no better; but it wouldn't for me,
level best with the lightning-rod, but he couldn't come it, his hands was
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
life trying to turn the pirates into the true path; for he could do it
life--and then he begun to pull off his clothes and sling them.  He shed
life.  He got so worked up, and got to running on so about his troubles,
life; and I do believe he cared just as much for his people as white
lifts his hat ever so gracious and dainty, like it was the lid of a box
light burning so he could see it.
light out of the Tooleries a servant-girl done it.  It's a very good way,
lighting out."
lightning beginning to wink and flitter, and the wind to shiver amongst
lightning was squirting around low down in the sky, and the leaves was
lightning-rod to spy around; and the nigger at the back door was asleep,
lightning-rod, and shoved for the town; for I didn't believe anybody was
lightning-rod, and shut ourselves up in the lean-to, and got out our pile
lights by and by--that was the town, you know--and slid by, about a half
lights out of me.  But Jim fished me out, and was going to hug me and
like I could eat you up!  Children, it's your cousin Tom!--tell him
like a bull--you must say it soft and sick and languishy, so--R-o-o-meo!
like all git-out."
like an overflow.  And when they got to the grave they found they had
like as not you've got the other things there, too.  How'd it get there?"
like everybody's dead and gone; and if a breeze fans along and quivers
like sunset, and says:
like the best."
like the most loveliest parasol.
like the orneriest old rip that ever was; but now, when he'd take off his
like to know how they're putting in their opportunity.  They can turn it
likeliest, nuther, because the first haul was the pick of the flock.
line.  He said it warn't no use talking, heathens don't amount to shucks
lined out two more for them to sing--and so on.  The people woke up more
lines.  Then pretty soon he says:
listened and waited; and sure enough, when the next flash busted out over
listened to all the old gentleman said, and was listening to the king
listened, and the steps a-scraping around out there all the time; and at
littered-up place, and had ink marks, and handbills with pictures of
little bigger, and she would turn into the room with her sisters and
little bit of a concern, up over a carpenter shop--carpenters and
little different, but now it made me feel bad and disappointed, The king
little knickknacks and jimcracks around, like girls brisken up a room
little one-horse town in a big bend; so we tied up about three-quarters
little piece of paper with "HALF-PAST TWO" wrote on it with a pencil.  I
little things that smooths people's roads the most, down here below; it
little twenty-foot yard.  Some sung out "Tear down the fence! tear down
little, because the people that's always the most anxious for to hang a
live in their houses, and said they'd think it was an honor; but he said
lives forty mile back here in the country, on the road to Lafayette."
livin'.  THEY ain't a-goin to suffer.  Why, jest think--there's thous'n's
loaded up the place again with them.  I didn't mind the lickings, because
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
locked and chained; so he took my canoe, and said for me to wait till he
locked, and you--" She stopped, looking kind of wondering, and then she
logs sawed off and up-ended in steps, like barrels of a different length,
lonesomeness of the river, and kind of lazy along, and by and by lazy off
long as it's daytime and you're not behind him.
long life; For who would fardels bear, till Birnam Wood do come to
long time 'fo' I AST him.  En mo' en dat, I doan' WANT him to sleep wid
long's he live!'  Oh, she was plumb deef en dumb, Huck, plumb deef en
long, and looking better and peacefuller all the time, and ten to one
long-legged undertaker make a sign to the preacher as much as to say,
long.  Why, they can't collect the money for the NIGGERS yet--they're in
look as much like your mother as I reckoned you would; but law sakes, I
look at that bed-leg sawed off with 'm, a week's work for six men; look
look at the raft and found her all right, and got home late to supper,
look that way; and you see the mist curl up off of the water, and the
looked all puzzled to death.  Pretty soon he begun to speak, and I see
looked around and see the coffin, over in the corner on two chairs; so
looked around slow, like he wished he could run across a friendly eye
looked considerable more than that.
looked up towards the sky, with the tears running down, and then busted
looking across at Tom over her spectacles--kind of grinding him into the
looking as absent-minded as year before last.  He went a mooning around,
looking ever so tall and airy and straight, with their heads bobbing and
lookout, and not be surprised, and not let Nat see him open them; and we
lookout."
loose the dogs!"
lost one of them OFF of me."
loud as I could yell.  SHE NEVER BUDGE!  Oh, Huck, I bust out a-cryin' en
lovinger they got, and went off a-snoring in each other's arms.  They
low comedy--and maybe something ruther worse than low comedy, he
low; and at last the lawyer speaks up and says:
lunch and took it up to our room and went to bed, and got up about
lunch, and give me all I wanted."
lynch the whole gang!"
lynching's going to be done it will be done in the dark, Southern
m'lasses, won't ye?--I was a-sayin' to Sister Dunlap, jist this minute,
mad; en I says agin, mighty loud, I says:
made a little speech, and said he hoped there wouldn't be no disturbance,
made a noise; and as he dropped in our tracks and started somebody sings
made a trade and got forty dollars, and when we found him in the doggery
made all sorts of signs with his hands and said "Goo-goo--goo-goo-goo"
made me feel easy and satisfied.  Of course when they got to snoring we
made no difference to Aunt Sally; she despised snakes, be the breed what
made the fur fly.  We stuck to it about a half an hour, which was as long
made up a lot, and wrote them out on a paper, and read them off, so:
made you think I'd like it?"
make Jim feel it all the time, and so he'd feel ornery and disgraced.
make a will.  He left a letter behind for Harvey, and said he'd told in
make allowances.  Take them all around, they're a mighty ornery lot.
make him a pen out of an old pewter spoon or a piece of an old iron
make me feel at home and know I was amongst friends.  I felt so ornery
make nothing else out; then a pale place in the sky; then more paleness
make of my voice coming out of the tree at first.  He was awful
man in dah, kivered up, en I went in en unkivered him and didn' let you
man in the world couldn't a understood it.  So Tom's Aunt Polly, she told
man struck.  You have cert'nly got the most astonishin' head I ever see.
man that had a-holt of me was very good to me, and kept saying he had a
man's face a minute, and some dropped in a tear, and it was all very
marked out them things on it with the nail, and set Jim to work on them,
masked cowards at his back and lynches the rascal.  Your mistake is, that
master and was trying to get away before he made trouble with them.  That
match went out, and so did we, and shoved in the staple again, and the
matter much, because they was still on the premises somewheres.  So we
may be bullier circuses than what that one was, but I never struck them
maybe half a dozen.  One of these was that doctor; another one was a
maybe hasn't let up as much as he lets on he has; he might scare them out
maybe was old Leviticus himself.  Jim cleaned up the canoe, and I got my
maybe, because it was so quiet; but there I WAS, with both of 'm on my
me and Jim was getting along with the pens.  It was most pesky tedious
me and hang me yet, and said I was afeard you and the duke wasn't alive
me and my sisters any way you want to, and don't give us no receipt for
me and ride me on a rail, sure.  I didn't wait for no breakfast--I warn't
me go and give the niggers a dime without telling them what it was for.
me right along, he was so excited, and I had to run to keep up.
me ten cents to help him pull a skiff over the river and back to fetch a
me the people was getherin' on the quiet with their dogs and horses, and
me to.  They all said, kiss her; and said she'd like it.  They all said
me, Bilge.  Thish yer comes of trust'n to Providence.  It's the best way,
me, and of course I stopped and faced them, and kept still.  And such
me. What you going to do about the servant-girl?"
me."
me; I couldn't stand it.  Well, when the place couldn't hold no more
me; so I laid outside--I didn't mind the rain, because it was warm, and
means; go BEFORE breakfast."
men hanging on to his bridle trying to hold him, and the drunk man
men in a skiff come by, and as good luck would have it the nigger was
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
middle of the Mississippi.  Then we hung up our signal lantern, and
middle we let her alone, and let her float wherever the current wanted
midnight he must a kicked his gun in his dreams, for it went off and shot
might get catched--catched with six thousand dollars in my hands that
might suspicion something if all of you was to go.  I don't want you to
mighty ca'm and slow--he says:
mighty good nigger, Jim was.
mighty good that way, Jim was.  I crawled into the wigwam, but the king
mighty nice old man.  And always is.
mighty thankful; said it was tough work toting his baggage such weather.
mighty warm for the rummies, I TELL you, and takin' as much as five or
mile around.  The woods was full of teams and wagons, hitched
mile below a little steam sawmill that was on the bank.
mile off, to borrow one.
million dogs, er devils, er some'n, I wisht I may die right heah in dese
mind I wouldn't ever go anear that house again, because I reckoned I was
mind letting me off; but I'll write it for you on a piece of paper, and
mind the rest of his outfit; it was just wild, but it was awful funny.
mind you. They stole that shirt right off o' the line! and as for that
mind, because it would be nuts for him, being a mystery, and he'd make an
mind, nobody can tell as to that--but his brother would a give anything
mine too.  Look at both, please--they're by the same hand."
mine would, and maybe get us all killed besides.  So I was satisfied, and
minute everybody was saying it; so away they went, mad and yelling, and
minute, I says:
minute, and sings out my name before I can throw him a wink to keep
minute.  To think, here I've been, night after night, a--YOU just get
minute.  Turn him loose! he ain't no slave; he's as free as any cretur
miserable girls and niggers hanging around each other's necks and crying;
missed him.  He--"
mistake, Aunt Sally.  This ain't no healthy place for a stranger to
mixed up in it.  He can say he never seen us together, and it 'll be the
mixed-up en splendid den what dat one wuz."
mo'; so I's jes' dis minute a startin' de raf' down towards de mouf er de
mob would get nearly to them they would break and skaddle back out of
mob, screaming and trying to get out of the way; and every window along
money 'll be found when they come to screw on the lid.  Then the king 'll
money I had, and I hadn't had nothing to eat since yesterday.  He never
money, he would get there anyway, and every time he convinced a pirate he
money.  And when she got through they all jest laid theirselves out to
months and months to file it out, too, because they've got to do it by
more my conscience went to grinding me, and the more wicked and low-down
more noise than country dogs is always doing when anything comes by in
more sound than a cat.  He never spoke; he moved people around, he
more than that, if he'll sell it so cheap.  Maybe there's something ain't
more!"
more, nor nothing, and no way to make my living;' so I set down and
more; and your pap hain't ever been back since.  Hadn't when I come away,
more; because when he said he'd do a thing, he always done it.  But I
mornin'.  I live up there, don't I?  Well, I was up there, and he was up
morning. Jim said he would "jis' 's soon have tobacker in his coffee;"
morning; and I never see a nigger that was a better nuss or faithfuller,
most always doing it on a raft; you'd see the axe flash and come down
most anxious to pay for him when they've got their satisfaction out of
most like setting down on a kag of powder and touching it off just to see
most noble attitude, with one leg shoved forwards, and his arms stretched
most noise, and we got our canoe, and made for the raft, and was all
mother down the river to Orleans.  I thought them poor girls and them
mother's gown, and peeped out from behind her at me, bashful, the way
mother?"
mournful inscription--said Jim got to have one, like they all done.  He
mournful inscriptions, and we can kill two birds with that same rock.
mouth with his hands, and stretched his neck out towards the preacher,
mouth, and then settled back again in his chair comfortable, and was
moved out of them.  The bank was caved away under one corner of some
much as eighty year, and would be the best time on record.  And he said
much money in it, but they judged it wouldn't be safe, because maybe the
much to blame; but something inside of me kept saying, "There was the
much to live.  He most desperately wanted to see Harvey--and William,
mullet-headed they don't take notice of nothing at all.  So if we don't
mumps is different.  It's a new kind, Miss Mary Jane said."
murdered AT ALL?"
murderers?  Because they're afraid the man's friends will shoot them in
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
my Testament in, and it must be so, because my Testament ain't in; but
my bounden duty to set down here and wait the three months it takes to
my br--helped to lay out the late Peter Wilks for burying?"
my church matters has got to get along the best way they can; for my
my hat off, all the same.
my head sore, but I couldn't see no way out of the trouble.  After all
my head."
my heels a few times--I couldn't help it; but about the third crack I
my mouth and I went overboard backwards; for I forgot he was old King
myself down--yes, I did it myself.  It's right I should suffer--perfectly
myself, NOW he'll throw up the sponge--there ain't no more use.  Well,
myself, we can't get him home for hours, till he's soberer; so I went
myself."
natural leaf twisted.  When they borrow a chaw they don't generly cut it
naturally they wanted to know.  A little thing like that don't cost
near over it; when she was setting thinking about something you could
nearer her size.  But I bet she done it, just the same--she was just that
nearly, went up to the girls, without saying a word, and kissed them,
neither, nor do any gabbling by the way.  Just keep a tight tongue in
nest, but we didn't.  The family was at home.  We didn't give it right
never hunted for no back streets, but humped it straight through the main
never said nothing, never let on; kept it to myself; it's the best way;
never see a cabin as blithesome as Jim's was when they'd all swarm out
never see anything so disgusting.
never see it freshen up things so, and sound so honest and bully.
never see such a woman.  And you could hear her whoop to Jericho.  You
never see two men leak the way they done.  And, mind you, everybody was
new white beaver and make a bow and do a smile, he looked that grand and
news might a worked along down by this time.  They couldn't hit no
next minute I whirled in on a kind of an explanation how a valley was
next morning.  And he would do it just as indifferent as if he was
nice-looking younger one, with his right arm in a sling.  And, my souls,
niece has been exposed to the dreadful pluribus-unum mumps, and so it's
nieces would be glad if a few of the main principal friends of the family
nigger for that; I tell you, gentlemen, a nigger like that is worth a
nigger free--me and Tom."
nigger goes to everlasting fire."
nigger never made the least row nor said a word from the start.  He ain't
nigger out with?"  I says.
nigger that hain't done just right is always the very ones that ain't the
nigger to get his freedom; and if I was ever to see anybody from that
nigger to-night, and they have been trying to scare you so as you will
nigger's owner and tell where he was; but deep down in me I knowed it was
nigger, and they've got him.  Was you looking for him?"
nigger--me and Sid."
nigger-head."
nigger.  We don't run daytimes no more now; nights they don't bother us."
nigger; or what I want is my watermelon; or what I want is my
niggers around, and have them waltz him into town with a torchlight
niggers stole it the very next mornin' after I had went down stairs; and
niggers would be back home in a week or two.
niggers would break their hearts for grief; they cried around each other,
nigh getting caught, and I had to shove it into the first place I come
night for four weeks to a done all that work, Sister Phelps.  Look at
night some time--nobody don't know jis' when; run off to get married to
night through, and got up before it was light, and had my breakfast, and
night to see such things.  I ain't ever going to get shut of them--lots
night was most gone we stopped navigating and tied up--nearly always in
night, and a bulldog tied to the door in the daytime; and about this time
night, and consider it was THEIR turn now.  Well, it IS their turn, and
night, and we all went overboard and dove under the wheel; Jim and me
night, when churchyards yawn In customary suits of solemn black, But that
nightcap.  Here are the costumes for the parts."
nights, it's us; we're going to set you free."
nightshirt and a ruffled nightcap to match.  The king was satisfied; so
nine dollars and a half, and said he'd done a pretty square day's work
nine or half-past to-night, and then get them to fetch you home again
nineteen years old.
no bad nigger, gentlemen; that's what I think about him."
no bad thing that we've struck here--plenty grub and an easy life--come,
no flattery.  And when it comes to beauty--and goodness, too--she lays
no harm in a hound, nohow.
no kind to help me.  The king says:
no king; we could have a change, anyway--and maybe a chance for THE
no notice of it, they was so full of this business; and one minute you
no sense, and just goes for him anyway.  If I had a yaller dog that
no such business as that, I says to myself.
no worse; for luck's against us, and it never rains but it pours, and
nobody hadn't hired me to take care of.  I don't wish to be mixed up in
nobody to bother us.  I had to skip around a bit, and jump up and crack
noise and shooting waked up me and "Sid," and the door was locked, and we
noise than we was obleeged to. Then we struck out, easy and comfortable,
noises, and he didn't believe he was ever witched so long before in his
none of them objections to it.
nonnamous letter and shove it under the front door."
nor Henri IV., nor none of them heroes?  Who ever heard of getting a
not blow at all; then whilst they are getting his chains loose, you slip
not by him to help him, and so the tears would drip down silent, and I
not making the least noise, and slipped stealthy towards the fence in
noth'n' to complain of."
nothing about any runaway nigger, and we was afraid to try to work up to
nothing about him, and I don't know nothing about him."
nothing about it, nor let anybody know, because we wanted to come home
nothing about it.  He's GOT to have a rope ladder; they all do."
nothing did.
nothing left but sixteen dollars and our nigger, Jim.  That warn't enough
nothing more to write about, and I am rotten glad of it, because if I'd a
nothing to do but just hold still, and try and be ready to stand from
nothing to grieve her any more.  And the third time I waked up at dawn,
nothing to see--just solid lonesomeness.  Next you'd see a raft sliding
nothing, and it's just the little things that makes a man to be looked up
nothing, and looking mournful, and their coffee getting cold, and not
nothing, it was so dark; and whispered and said he would listen for the
notice off, Tom shoved a piece of candlestick into the middle of a
notice took of it, and reward.  So every one of them promised, right out
noticed a sound that I knowed mighty well, and held my breath and
noticed that my nigger was following along behind.  When we was out of
noticed, but says:
noticing, she done the same; she couldn't face noway and be satisfied,
now and then; then he would hoist up his eyebrows; next he would squeeze
now the frauds reckoned they was out of danger, and they begun to work
now, and I was awful sorry, and so was Jim, and was awful glad when we
now, and pretty soon some of them watchers would begin to stir, and I
now, he DID die.  Mortification set in, and they had to amputate him.
now. And when the king got done this husky up and says:
now; and then I happened to look around and see that paper.
nowheres."
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
nuther; but we allowed we'd tackle it.  It warn't quite midnight yet, so
o' that, now!  You bet I'D wait, if it was seven year."
o' ye!"
o'clock, mind--no longer.  If you open your mouth against me only once
oak laths, and begun to practice the sword fight--the duke called himself
obleegd to get along home to England as fast as they can?  And do you
obleeged if they will mention it to their friends and get them to come
ocean; and though it would take him a long time to get there without
of Boggs.  One of them says:
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
of Tom; and both of them set at the table thinking, and not saying
of a man--Buck Harkness, there--and if you hadn't had him to start you,
of a mile above it, in the mouth of a crick which was shut in like a
of a show would THAT give him to be a hero?  Why, they might as well lend
of a tin plate with a fork and throw it out of the window.  The Iron Mask
of arms, because he hain't."
of dirt sailing up out of the grave, and the next second the dark wiped
of flour and started for breakfast, and found a couple of shingle-nails
of fox-fire, and went to work.  We cleared everything out of the way,
of gold in his hand, and then take and lead him all around the back
of heaven stands open--oh, enter in and be at rest!" (A-A-MEN!  GLORY,
of her money!
of here yet.
of his heart and out of his brother's heart, because out of their mouths
of hours, taking on freight.  Says the king:
of humbug talky-talk, just the way people always does at a supper, you
of it, and allowed they would "lay out a campaign," as they called it.
of it; the faces didn't tell me nothing.
of land which was dry and very thick with trees and bushes and vines, and
of paper and a pencil, all glad and excited, and set down and wrote:
of poor niggers, and you never say a word for 'em.  It makes me feel
of prison with; there's where the difference was.  He said if I'd a
of sight."
of such an idiotic idea, and then he went to studying.  By and by he said
of that boy?"
of the afternoon, and it strung along, and strung along, and the old man
of the cleanest I've struck in history.  Well, Henry he takes a notion he
of the evasion?--what it was he'd planned to do if the evasion worked all
of the right way at last--which was to cook the ladder, too, in the
of the room, he disappears down cellar.  Then in about two seconds we
of the tree.  I ain't a-going to tell ALL that happened--it would make me
of the wigwam, and carry on a little, and fetch a howl or two like a wild
of the woods, away on the bank on t'other side of the river, being a
of them!"
of times I dream about them.
of tobacco of their own.  They get all their chawing by borrowing; they
of trouble without waking you up, if they hadn't already waked you up."
of, and I've read all the books that gives any information about these
off and work his way back to the Indian Ocean, and put in the rest of his
off every which way, and Buck Harkness he heeled it after them, looking
off in a hurry for the crick, and crowded through the willows, red-hot to
off of his face, for it was powerful warm weather; and he had a couple of
off of the leavings, whilst the others was helping the niggers clean up
off the scent."
off with a knife, but set the plug in between their teeth, and gnaw with
off your chain, and there you are.  Nothing to do but hitch your rope
off, and says:
off, so as to get the chain loose?"
off."
off; big double log-house for the white folks--hewed logs, with the
office, and we waited awhile longer, but Sid didn't come; so the old man
old man and a preacher.
old man had wrote a couple of times to the plantation below Orleans to
old man's britches after he goes to bed, and shove off down the river on
old man, with a candle in one hand and a bundle of stuff in t'other,
old, and had a very red face.  Everybody yelled at him and laughed at him
old, shackly, dried up frame concerns that hadn't ever been painted; they
on all fours, naked; and he was painted all over, ring-streaked-and-
on any of them yet.  Said we'd got to post Jim first.
on de bank like a whack, er a slam, while ago, en it mine me er de time I
on his heels and walked off.
on pens, and inscriptions, and journals, and things, which made it more
on the floor and put one large Bible under his head, and opened another
on the pore disappeared Dauphin, Looy the Seventeen, son of Looy the
on them new-comers like it give him the stomach-ache in his very heart to
on to the passage, and says:
on we was at it a hundred and fifty year.  It wouldn't strain me none,
on you," says the king.  "Blest if the old Nonesuch ain't a heppin' us
on, and he told me to put mine on.  I done it, of course.  The king's
on, and so on.  Then he says:
one and spread it on his breast; but they tore open his shirt first, and
one dog, but he made a most powerful racket, and he kept it up right
one of 'm; and how they are, and what they're doing, and what they told
one of the candles along, and listened under the window-hole, and heard
one of us ought to wait on him at dinner, and do any little thing for him
one on t'other side, and the people just crazy.  It warn't funny to me,
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
one place to t'other and watching everything he done, and bobbing their
one that's entitled to it most.  You hain't done a thing from the start
one thing of the lantern.  When you come down to the cold facts, we
one thing or another, and you can't think HALF the fun it was.  And we
one turn up in the morning all sound and right.  So she had to be
one we got aground on--or--Now I struck an idea, and fetched it out:
one which the prisoner has to scrabble on the wall.  But he had to have
one--William ain't more than thirty or thirty-five.  Peter and George
one-horse place on the river, forty-four mile below Orleans.  Pa was
one; and quicker, too."
one; and when I begun to get towards our house I aimed my eye and set it.
ones it give me the cold shivers, and I see we hadn't no time to lose.
ones; and by and by he says:
only coarse-hand," and then she said the paper warn't anything but a
only in the summer time, when he comes there to take the sea baths."
only just to be doing something; I knowed very well where the right plan
open but roofed passage joining it to the house; log smoke-house back of
opened my mouth to begin; but she grabbed me and hustled me in behind the
opened up like a trunk, and stayed so; and he swallowed two or three
opened up, slow and solemn, and begun to talk; and straight off the most
opinion she was just full of sand.  It sounds like flattery, but it ain't
opinion, s'I, 'n' if any body k'n start a better one, s'I, let him DO it,
opportunities to fix the problem.
opposed to spending money on circuses when there ain't no other way, but
oppression.  Misfortune has broken my once haughty spirit; I yield, I
oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely, The law's delay, and the
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
or something like that.  So we can't resk being as long digging him out
or three inches deep in ALL the places.  The hogs loafed and grunted
ordering up eggs.  'Fetch up Nell Gwynn,' he says.  They fetch her up.
orgies now in England.  Orgies is better, because it means the thing
other Dukes of Bilgewater was a good deal thought of by HIS father, and
other kind.  I'd see him standing my watch on top of his'n, 'stead of
other niggers around there, so they wouldn't be trying to run away like
other thing--lay for them and eavesdrop.  About that time I hears their
other, and warn't back yet.  Well, thinks I, that looks powerful bad for
others, and that corner was hanging over.  People lived in them yet, but
our gang warn't around.
our hands was blistered, and yet you couldn't see we'd done anything
our noses and fools us, and not only fools US but the Injun Territory
our sheets to make Jim a rope ladder, we're going to get into trouble
out agin," and HE begun to haul out yaller-jackets and stack them up.
out and went off sobbing and swabbing, and give the next woman a show.  I
out en tell um 'bout it, dey doan' b'lieve you."
out in the air and then the other, the horses leaning more and more, and
out o' you!"
out of a jews-harp.  It always interests them; they come out to see
out of carpet-stuff, that had just come off of the steamboat and was
out of her room if they was in Uncle Harvey's way, but he said they
out of her stockings.  It was very curious.  But Tom said all women was
out of him the size of a warwhoop, and Tom he turned kinder blue around
out of his head again!"
out of prison with.  He said if we warn't prisoners it would be a very
out of sight I sung out to Buck and told him.  He didn't know what to
out of sight, and laugh at the fun and look grateful for the noise.  Then
out of that door; no, I hain't ever seen her since, but I reckon I've
out of that, so I put the paper in the book again, and when I got home
out of the corner of his eye, and so I knowed enough to talk on the right
out of there, but I dasn't try it.  Every minute it was getting earlier
out of, you muggins.  They ALWAYS make their pens out of the hardest,
out on the floor, and it was a lovely sight, all them yaller-boys.  My,
out their bottles and treated him.
out two lines, everybody sung it, and it was kind of grand to hear it,
out with the picks, and LET ON it's case-knives."
out!" and one or two women begun to scream.  So, then, the ringmaster he
out, "Take up a collection for him, take up a collection!"  Well, a half
out, and somebody come along and ask what killed him, and some numskull
out, private, and took her down there, but she failed on the first pies,
out-gaze him, but they couldn't; they dropped their eyes and looked sneaky.
out. Music is a good thing; and after all that soul-butter and hogwash I
out:
out; and we would tie things to aunt's apron-strings or put them in her
out; but you can't lay the SPOON on the rats, and that I know."
outer me; en I feel so--so--I doan' know HOW I feel.  I crope out, all
outrageous all the time; and at last, when he had gone around two sides
outrageous row busted out in the cellar a body ever heard; it was only
outside of the fence a garden and a watermelon patch; then the cotton
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.
over and over again, and then turned him over to the old man, and he took
over each other's shoulders; and then for three minutes, or maybe four, I
over every time there was a sound.  The duke told him to make himself
over everybody; and next he went a-charging up on to the platform, and
over her, and I found a good enough place for me under the bed, for it
over it, and pretty soon away he went a-raging down the street again,
over it, but it was worth it; and it didn't cool it a bit, neither, the
over on to the floor amongst the dogs, and begun to groan like he was
over the people's heads, and says, in a kind of a coarse whisper, "HE HAD
over the river a-fishing, with a lunch, and had a good time, and took a
over them all.  I hain't ever seen her since that time that I see her go
over there, so cool and fresh and sweet to smell on account of the woods
over to t'other village without any plan, but just trust in Providence to
own togs."
paddle ready.  There was a big steamboat laying at the shore away up
paddled over here to hear the news, and Sid's at the post-office to see
page at http://pglaf.org
painted Jim's face and hands and ears and neck all over a dead, dull,
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
parlor and took a swift look around, and the only place I see to hide the
particular state visit http://pglaf.org
partly.  But anyway, one thing is proved--THESE two ain't either of 'em
passel of fools and leave eight or nine thous'n' dollars' worth o'
path to the mill; and when they got pretty close on to us we dodged into
pawed around and found the candle and lit it, and stood over Jim awhile,
pay him for his lost time, and write word ahead and get out all the
peace of mind."
peeped through a crack of the dining-room door, and see the men that was
pen to paper.  And so he warmed up and went warbling right along till he
penitentiary, you bet! But that trick took 'em to the graveyard, and the
pens was made, the inscriptions and so on was all carved on the
people filed around slow, in single rank, and looked down at the dead
people groaning and crying and saying amen:
people in all walks of life.
people saying "Sh!" and all the men taking their hats off and drooping
people that ain't going to be doubted as quick as I'd be.  I'll tell you
people the duke he give a fellow a quarter and told him to tend door for
people there--just enough to pay expenses.  And they laughed all the
people would shout out, "Glory!--A-a-MEN!"  And so he went on, and the
people.  I hid the letter behind the first thing that come handy, and
perfectly dead and still, like Sunday.  We found a sick nigger sunning
perfectly easy."
perfectly flat; won't amount to nothing--won't be nothing TO it."
performance--like that other time.  They had the cheek, them frauds!  I
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.
person that you don't know about who'd be in big trouble.  Well, we got
person that's had a tooth pulled out.  So I went to studying it out.  I
person's fist, was where I had left it, so I took up the slab of
persuaded, and come in; and when he was in he said he was a stranger from
pet, and if a rattlesnake hain't ever been tried, why, there's more glory
pewter spoon in Uncle Silas's coat-pocket, and Aunt Sally wasn't come
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
picking up money out'n the road."
pie, and send in spoons and things to work with in your apron pocket--"
pie.  So then we laid in with Jim the second night, and tore up the sheet
piece and some other money, but I reckoned I better save it, because
piece of a raft; so we reckoned we'd go down to Orleans on it.  Pa's luck
piece of corn-crust started down my throat after it and got met on the
piece of poetry, which he made, himself, out of his own head--three
piece of rock or something like that that's always getting into bread,
piece, and found the two bodies laying in the edge of the water, and
piling in till there was eleven of them, and there warn't hardly room in
pison, and fall down the well, and break his neck, and bust his brains
place before the log store, cussing and yelling, and trying to get at a
place.  You could see it was a great satisfaction to the people, because
plantation he's frum, below NewrLEANS.  No-sirree-BOB, they ain't no
plantation, which he built it himself at his own expense, for a church
plate when I see you coming; so you mustn't disappoint us.  Come right in
plates.  Tom says it wasn't enough; but I said nobody wouldn't ever see
played another chicken bone and got another think.  Then I says:
playing out that way after I had took so much trouble and run so much
plenty good enough for a rat.  All animals like music--in a prison they
pockets bulging, or something muffled up under his coat--and I see it
points rampant on a dancette indented; crest, a runaway nigger, SABLE,
pork and cabbage and greens--there ain't nothing in the world so good
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
powerful astonished, and says:
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
practice.  You do it pretty awkward."
praised up this tragedy, and said it was the most thrillingest one that
pranced them out of town.  Another time they tried to go at yellocution;
preacher, too, and had a little one-horse log church down back of the
pressing London engagements, where the seats is all sold already for it
prettiest kind of girls, with the tears running down their cheeks, would
pretty keen. But he never meddled at all; just slid the lid along as soft
pretty poor, and had some debts; so when he'd squared up there warn't
pretty short.  I waked up about dawn, and was a-going to turn over and go
pretty soon he says:
pretty soon he says:
pretty well; "only," he says, "you mustn't bellow out ROMEO! that way,
pretty.  I was a good deal astonished, but when I got my breath I asked
pretty; then she would turn a corner and her lights would wink out and
print in the paper, and didn't charge nothing for it.  Well, he took in
printed bills and read them out loud.  One bill said, "The celebrated Dr.
printed off two little jobs for farmers in that printing-office--horse
printers all gone to the meeting, and no doors locked.  It was a dirty,
printing office was going to make in that little town; then we could boom
prisoner loose in such an old-maidy way as that?  No; the way all the
prisoner of style escapes it's called an evasion.  It's always called so
prisoners don't care how they get a thing so they get it, and nobody
private jug on the sly.  A nigger rousted me out this mornin', and told
privileged to sing the song yet.  Say, where IS that song--that draft?"
prob'bly hain't got any but that one."
procession and a brass-band, and then he would be a hero, and so would
profits has turned out to be none, lackin' considable, and none to carry,
project that suited exactly; so at last the duke said he reckoned he'd
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
promise you won't blow, and won't let the nigger blow, I'll tell you
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
prop it up right, and she would always cave in.  But of course we thought
propaty, en git a hid'n for it?  Den I gin 'm ten cents apiece, en dey
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
property layin' around jest sufferin' to be scooped in?--and all good,
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
pulled me in and shut the door; then she looked in the Testament till she
pulled off his boots and rolled up his britches, and let his legs dangle
pulpit."
pushing and shoving to get at the window and have a look, but people that
put in for four dollars if they would pay in advance--so they done it.
put off in a yawl, a steamboat kin afford to carry 'em, can't it?"
put on another plate for dinner."
put on my store clothes, and tied up some others and one thing or another
putting them on, and scratching their heads, and changing their seats,
quick for that length of a trip.  The old gentleman was at the door, and
quick he'd lose a lie every time.  That's the kind of a bug Henry was;
quiet him down, and tried to explain to him and tell him how Harvey 'd
quiet?
quietus which his pangs might take, In the dead waste and middle of the
quit on him, and then he could go to bed, and hide the grindstone under
raft a bit, and after that you wouldn't hear nothing for you couldn't
raft and went for it, and hid it there, and then turned in.  I slept the
raft don't.  You feel mighty free and easy and comfortable on a raft.
raft like the dickens was after you!"
raft, after all.  Other places do seem so cramped up and smothery, but a
rafts and things that went by was beating tin pans so the steamboats
raging rush of people with torches, and an awful whooping and yelling,
raised considerable row about it, but me and Jim stuck to it and wouldn't
raised such a scamp as my Tom all these years not to know him when I SEE
ransacked it, but couldn't find anything else.  I couldn't make anything
ransacking:  I knowed that very well.  Then I turned in, with my clothes
rascal, to fool a body so--" and was going to hug him, but he fended her
rattling good honest day's work:  and hungry?--oh, no, I reckon not!  And
rattling powwow.  But the lawyer he jumps on the table and yells, and
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
reach of the water when the river was over-flowed.  The houses had little
reach.  Lots of the women and girls was crying and taking on, scared most
reached out his hand, and says:
reaching it over people's heads to him.  The king he reads it and puts it
read it. Why, half the time you can't read anything a prisoner writes on
read like this:
reading was all about Jim, and just described him to a dot.  It said he
really dig right in, as quick as we can; and after that, we can LET ON,
reason.  You make them a witch pie; that's the thing for YOU to do."
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
reckon he clean forgot I was in the world, he was so excited and panting.
reckon it ain't him, or else he wouldn't be paddling up the river.'  You
reckon that 'll do?"
reckon they'd be mean enough to go off and leave you to go all that
reckon you can learn me?"
reckon?"
reckoned I better start in on my plan straight off without fooling
reckoned Tom Sawyer couldn't a done it no neater himself.  Of course he
reckoned they warn't high enough yet to do any harm; but he was mistaken
reckoned.  He said he could size their style.  So next morning he got
redistribution.
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
regulations; but there's one thing, Tom Sawyer--if we go to tearing up
rehearsing--as the duke called it--going on all the time.  One morning,
relations, en ole Mars Saul en de boys tuck dey guns en rode up de river
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
remember he ain't in his own country and amongst his own folks."
representatives of furrin heirs that's got left is the line for you and
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
resemblance than I'd noticed before, anyway.  Well, well, well!  I
resk about it.  Says I, if it could stay where it is, all right; because
respectable and well brung up; and had a character to lose; and folks at
rested he allowed he would give her one more turn for luck, and this time
reward if you send.
ride 'em on a rail!" and everybody was whooping at once, and there was a
ride, after all.  When the boat was gone the king made me paddle up
ride; said he could ride as well as anybody that ever was.  They argued
ridiculous to think I was soft enough to BELIEVE that rubbage.  Cuss you,
riding towards the store; then up gets one of the boys, draws a steady
right after supper, and clumb out of the window and down the
right along if we wanted to.
right and he managed to set a nigger free that was already free before?
right and left at the niggers and everybody else, as fast as her tongue
right in his face.  Everybody was shocked.  Everybody says, "Why,
right in it, a-lookin' down and mournin', en de tears runnin' down.  My,
right, and three times they come out wrong.  Then she grabbed up the
right, but said he believed it was blamed foolishness to stay, and that
right, let him have it; because I don't wish to go back on no
right--I don't make any moan."
right--I'm glad we found it out detective fashion; I wouldn't give
right; but he's missed seeing his brother Peter die--which he mayn't
right; it was because I warn't square; it was because I was playing
ringmaster couldn't ever say a word to him but he was back at him quick
ringmaster you ever see, I reckon.  Why, it was one of his own men!  He
rips out and says:
river in one summer. Such a town as that has to be always moving back,
river, but I didn't lose no time; and when I struck the raft at last I
river, everything was quiet, and we paddled over to the towhead and hid
road for to try to ketch dat young man en kill him 'fo' he kin git acrost
road with a cough, and was shot across the table, and took one of the
rob--yes, ROB--sech poor sweet lambs as these 'at he loved so at sech a
robbers too, and actuly gets AWAY with that nigger safe and sound, and
rock."
rod; but you'll be good, WON'T you?  And you won't go?  For MY sake."
rolled down.  And at last, sure enough, all the circus men could do, the
rolled up the curtain, and the next minute the king come a-prancing out
roof, shaming her and robbing her; and when I folded it up and give it to
room of a little low doggery, very tight, and a lot of loafers
rose up and went for them.
rose-leafy dress flapping soft and silky around her hips, and she looking
rousted him out, and we slid the raft into hiding quarters for the day.
rubbing it on the wall.  THEY wouldn't use a goose-quill if they had it.
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
run away from St. Jacques' plantation, forty mile below New Orleans, last
run up to town and see them, but I dasn't, because the nigger might get
run, and two men with her.  Boggs and the men turned round to see who
run.  They got half way to the tree I was in before the men noticed.
runaway nigger's breakfast-time?  It's because they're hungry; that's the
runaway nigger, and there I WAS! and there I had to stick right straight
rushed.  She flung herself at Tom, crying, and says:
rustling that you wake up.  Well, the duke allowed he would take my bed;
rusty played-out hoes and spades and picks and a crippled plow.  The
s'I, that's all.  I says to Sister Dunlap, s'I--"
s'I; 'n' ther' wuz a PLENTY help, too, s'I; ther's ben a DOZEN a-helpin'
s'pose there was so many strange things going on she was just in a sweat
safe, and Jim was a free man, and we done it all by ourselves, and WASN'T
said he had just bought the concern and knocked down the price as low as
said he reckoned he'd look around for a bigger one.  But they was all
said he was used to being Romeo, so the king could be Juliet.
said his father and his two brothers was killed, and two or three of the
said it.  So then she looked a little better satisfied, and says:
said no, and she asked me if I could read writing, and I told her "no,
said nothing.  The next minute he whirls on me and says:
said of course him and William would take the girls home with them; and
said that after she'd about counted her head off for the next three days
said the witches was pestering him awful these nights, and making him see
said then that he sorter felt like he warn't going to get well this time.
said they wouldn't land us.  But the king was ca'm.  He says:
said we would waltz in on it.  I needn't tell what it was here, because I
said, and they don't think she'll last many hours."
said, come along, let Sid foot it home, or canoe it, when he got done
salable stuff, too."
same room and bed; so, being tired, we bid good-night and went up to bed
same way.  When me and the king and the duke got home to the raft we all
satisfaction to look at. But the person that et it would want to fetch a
satisfied with the way things was going; still, the king acted real
satisfied yet.  He says:
satisfied, and feel right and kind towards the others.
satisfied.  But she said she'd set up for him a while anyway, and keep a
satisfied.  She says:
sausage, or anything you choose.  We could a had a whole dinner.
save me and set me free when the close-fit come, here was nothing in the
sawed off that a way, s'e?  THINK of it, s'I?  I lay it never sawed
say it AGAIN!
say to a fellow, "I wisht you'd len' me a chaw, Jack, I jist this minute
say we are; and in a day or two, when I get the baggage, I can prove it.
saying anything to him either, because the king was talking and they was
says it out crawls this nigger from somewheres and says he'll help, and
says to myself, I reckon a body that ups and tells the truth when he is
says to myself:
says, about like this:
says, kind of dissatisfied:
says, kind of severe:
says:
says:
says:
says:
says:
says:
says:
says:
says:
says:
says:
says:
says:
says:
says:  "There's one more thing--that bag of money."
scampered out, and everybody clapped their hands and went just about
scarcity of snakes about the house for a considerable spell.  You'd see
scared most to death for days and nights.  But the others said, don't do
scrabble on to the wall, they was all so good; but at last he allowed he
scrabble such a lot of truck on to the logs with a nail, and he didn't
scrabbling his inscription to leave behind, and his coat of arms.
screamed out and comes rushing, and down she throws herself on her
screaming and crying, and took her off.  She was about sixteen, and very
scrouge in and get a sight, you never see; and in the dark, that way, it
sea?"
searched around, and fetched back the iron thing they lift the lid with;
second or two there'd come a glare that lit up the white-caps for a half
see a chance to hog a watermelon.
see any.  I reckoned they'd turn pale.  But no, nary a pale did THEY
see anything so lovely.  And then one by one they got up and stood, and
see at the same time."
see him do it, and remembered about the spoon, and says:
see if I can pray.  Why, it was astonishing, the way I felt as light as a
see it was gone, I says to myself, 'They've got into trouble and had to
see no sign of them; it made you feel crawly; it was like spirits
see that he done it--what did he do?  He always done the other thing.
see the shed was only built against a cabin and hadn't no connection with
see the shines that old idiot cut.
see them, nor your sisters, nor nobody in this town; if a neighbor was to
see you coming; you may ask Jim if I didn't."
see, I don't know nothing about play-actin', and hain't ever seen much of
see, if you want to."
see.  Human beings CAN be awful cruel to one another.
see. They tiptoed away; so I seen, easy enough, that they'd shoved in
seem to do nothing right; he found fault with every little thing.
seem to want to ever stop talking about him; and kept asking me every now
sense in the most of it, but he allowed we was white folks and knowed
sermon that night that gave him a rattling ruputation, because the oldest
set all our chairs in rows, and borrowed more from the neighbors till the
set down.  This done him heaps of good, and so he got cheerful and
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
set him free--me and Tom.  We laid out to do it, and we DONE it.  And we
set the coffin in the middle of the room on a couple of chairs, and then
set to work to think out the coat of arms.  By and by he said he'd struck
setting by the pallet with his head propped on his knees sound asleep; so
settles de trouble by tellin' 'um she don't b'long to none uv um, but to
seventeen suits. And, then, there he was, slim and handsome, and dressed
shabby village named Pikesville, and the king he went ashore and told us
shake and clear out and leave them behind. Well, early one morning we hid
shaking; and all the time how the woman did dance around and laugh and
sharp-looking gentleman, with a carpet-bag of the old-fashioned kind made
she WAS in a tearing way--just a-trembling all over, she was so mad.  But
she acted, and then maybe he would a locked her up, and this awful mess
she b'long to de mos' dat I come to heah 'bout it pooty soon, so I ups en
she begun to cry, though I couldn't hear her, and her back was to me.  I
she could break it open she dropped it and run--for she see something.
she couldn't seem to hug and shake enough, and kept saying, "You don't
she counted and counted till she got that addled she'd start to count in
she didn't, everybody naturally despises an ungrateful nigger, and they'd
she said she'd forgive us, and maybe it was all right enough anyway, and
she says, and I see her nostrils spread and her eyes snap when she said
she turned over and found one in bed she would scramble out and lift a
she wanted to, and let me get away and tell Tom how we'd overdone this
she was on salary. And pretty soon you'd hear a loafer sing out, "Hi!  SO
she'd be mad and disgusted at his rascality and ungratefulness for
sheep, and so I went along; but when we was dragging him to the boat, and
sheep-signal."
sheep-signal; and here was Aunty pegging away at the questions, and me
sheet they made the rag ladder out of, ther' ain't no telling how many
shingle nail, before noon.  We was very well satisfied with this
shingle-nail fell out on the floor, and he just merely picked it up and
shinned for the road in the dark there ain't nobody can tell.
ships and was hid away up garret with a lot of other old pots and things
shirt was sent in early, in a pie, and every time a rat bit Jim he would
shook and shook; and the tears come in her eyes, and run down over; and
shoot!"  Bang! goes the first shot, and he staggers back, clawing at the
shouting. We heard them come along towards the crick, but couldn't see
shove off for the big water as fast as ever you can."
shove out down the river; and when Tom's done with him we'll give him
shove them back and shouting, "Back, back! give him air, give him air!"
show on her if she's got it.'  But never mind, if you think it's best to
show up, and sell the REST of the town!  Then we'll all be in the same
show up, but after that he didn't think so so much.  He had set up and
show was over, but one boy which was asleep.  So the duke said these
show was.  House was jammed again that night, and we sold this crowd the
show.
showed himself on the river side of the woodpile he got shot at.  The two
showed in forty ways that he WAS Harvey, and knowed everybody by name,
showed me dis place, whah de dogs can't track me on accounts o' de water,
showed us the runaway nigger.  But you got to be mighty careful.  When we
shroud on.  I tucked the money-bag in under the lid, just down beyond
shucks for any other way.  Now you work your mind, and study out a plan
shut the cellar door behind us, and when they found the bag they spilt it
shutting like gills, and sings out to me:
sich 'n' sich a person busted his heart; 'n' here so 'n' so pegged along
sich everlast'n rubbage.  He's plumb crazy, s'I; it's what I says in the
sick again if I was to do that.  I wished I hadn't ever come ashore that
sick and sore! (AMEN!) come, lame and halt and blind! (AMEN!) come, pore
sick and tolerable silly.  They stood there a-thinking and scratching
side, and they kneeled down and rested their foreheads on the coffin, and
side, the men just in their drawers and undershirts, and no shoes nor
side--we found a square window-hole, up tolerable high, with just one
side-wheel; then for about an hour there wouldn't be nothing to hear nor
side.  I begun to tell about Sheffield, and how we lived there, and all
sigh, and next he'd let on to drop a tear.  It was beautiful to see him.
sight of the house he looked back and around a second, and then comes
sign of it's being sawed, and thinks the bed-leg is perfectly sound.
signs of a dead cat being around, and I bet I do, there was sixty-four of
simply got to LET ON that a lantern's resky.  Why, we could work with a
since yesterday, so Jim he got out some corn-dodgers and buttermilk, and
singing out, "Kill them, kill them!"  It made me so sick I most fell out
sinister?"
six dollars a night--ten cents a head, children and niggers free--and
six times--and he was invited to stay a week; and everybody wanted him to
sixteen or seventeen times--and then up she jumps, with her face afire
skimming along, away up there under the tent-roof, and every lady's
skipped off into the ring, and made the sweetest bow I ever see, and then
slabs of logs, with holes bored in the round side to drive sticks into
slave at home where his family was, as long as he'd GOT to be a slave,
slave no more."
sleep on a cot; and up garret was a little cubby, with a pallet in it.
sleep with you; and won't stay away from you a minute; and will let you
slid into the river and had a swim, so as to freshen up and cool off;
slid out, and as I passed the dining-room I thought I'd make sure them
slid the chain off of the bed-leg, and wrapt it round and round his neck,
slide out of here one of these nights and get an outfit, and go for
sliding out when I ran across you on the trail this side of town, and you
slipped around through the woods and come in from behind without their
slush, till it was just sickening; and then he blubbers out a pious
small, but plenty good enough, and so was my cubby.
smoke-house; one little hut all by itself away down against the back
snakes and spiders and things, on top of all the other work he had to do
snakes, and spiders, and things begin to feel worried about you, and
snatching down every clothes-line they come to to do the hanging with.
so I reckon they've drove the owdacious loafers out of town before this
so I told him just how to find the raft, and then he started.
so Jim he said he would stand the first half of it for me; he was always
so far away--trading scows, and such things; and long black streaks
so glad to see me.  He says:
so good to be free again and all by ourselves on the big river, and
so he took it and prized out one of the staples.  The chain fell down,
so many good ones he didn't hardly know which to take, but there was one
so much that you think you are braver than any other people--whereas
so much trouble.  And when she was going away she looked down in my eyes
so sore.  At last he says:
so steady and gentle, and says:
so sudden; and, mind you, it was a thing that was calculated to make most
so that he said he could most wish there hadn't ever been no snakes
so, I couldn't help it.
so, as long as we was representing a prisoner, we had a perfect right to
so, coming down the river, me and Tom thought it would be a first-rate
so."
sociable time; then we crawled out through the hole, and so home to bed,
sold them the niggers reasonable, for three-day drafts as they called it,
sold--mighty badly sold.  But we don't want to be the laughing stock of
soldier-plumes.  Well, it made me sick to see it; and I was sorry for
solemn, on the forehead, and then put their hand on their head, and
solid blue, like a man that's been drownded nine days.  Blamed if he
solid good cussing, and made them skip out.  They tackled missionarying,
solitary captivity. 4.  Here, homeless and friendless, after thirty-seven
some big sheets of wrapping paper and some black paint, and drawed off
some currant bushes and gooseberry bushes in one place by the fence;
some er de niggers come along, gwyne to de fields, en dey tuk me en
some handbills, and stuck them up all over the village.  The bills said:
some letters from--"
some marks on a tin plate and throwed it out of the window-hole.
some o' dat?" and so on, and a body could see it was mighty pleasing to
some sort of care of 'em at your time of life."
somebody sings out:
somebody sung out?"
somebody's house or store, or was going into the counterfeit-money
somehow for myself by saying I was brung up wicked, and so I warn't so
somehow seem to understand it no way.  Looky here, warn't you ever
something and raise whoop-jamboreehoo. I do not wish any reward but to
something for her, but I couldn't, only to swear that I wouldn't never do
something on the Arkansaw village; and the king he allowed he would drop
something's up?  Let them find it out for themselves--it's their
something, and says:
sometimes--oh, I do lots of things--most anything that comes handy, so it
somewheres, and fetched up on the old gentleman's, and says, "Didn't YOU
somewheres, because if they missed it they would give the house a good
song-birds just going it!
soon have rattlesnakes aroun'."
soon the new gentleman broke in, and says:
soon; and so I come down the back way."
sores, and we didn't seem to make no headway, hardly; so Tom says:
sorrowful, and says:
sorrows on the dungeon walls with, and dropped one of them in Aunt
sorry as I can be; but I done the best I could; I did honest.  I come
sorry for you, Miss Mary Jane."
sorry, and said he wouldn't behave so no more, and then me and Tom shoved
sorry, and so did you, and so did everybody.  Don't ever tell ME any more
sorts of kind things to them, and carried their carpet-bags up the hill
souls, but I was scared!  I couldn't get my breath for most a minute.
sound in the whole world.
sound like you was rolling over in a pile of dead leaves; it makes such a
spark--which was a candle in a cabin window; and sometimes on the water
sparks was our clock--the first one that showed again meant morning was
speak he knows who he would name, for they was names that was very dear
speech--I learned it, easy enough, while he was learning it to the king:
spend it for something to eat, and give me some, because it was all the
spiders little Thomas Franklin Benjamin Jefferson Elexander Phelps found
spoke to the duke, and said he hoped it wouldn't take but a few hours,
spoon gone; and THAT ain't all.  There was ten, and now ther's only nine.
spread it open, and kind of pass it around this way and that, shouting,
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
spread-eagle way, prancing around and acting at the same time, to show
spreading around; then the river softened up away off, and warn't black
spring water whiles another man's a START'N one wid tears."
squeezed in late ones, he opened up passageways, and done it with nods,
squshed down like a bluff bank that the river has cut under, it took him
stack o' water-moccasins."
stage and stood up before the curtain and made a little speech, and
staggered backwards, says "Bang!" again, and fell down flat on his back.
stairs in that lonesome room, and I declare to goodness I was that uneasy
stairs.  I groped along up to my cubby, and hid it there till I could get
stan'."
stand on at one end of the sheds.  The women had on sun-bonnets; and some
standing pretty meek and sweaty alongside.  The old gentleman stared, and
stands to reason.  Yes, it's a prime good idea.  Where could you keep
staple drove into the bottom log, and chained his hands, too, and both
start in to steal a nigger, or a watermelon, or a Sunday-school book, I
start up yourn; just tell me EVERYTHING--tell me all about 'm all every
started for the kitchen.  When I got a little ways I heard the dim hum of
started in on--
started to tell me the truth; but when he stopped that way, and begun to
started, and the wind swished and swushed along, and the lightning come
starter I would go to work and steal Jim out of slavery again; and if I
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
status with the IRS.
stay in the house and not bother them.  I am one of the gang, but have
stay longer, but they said they could see it couldn't be done.  And he
stay said; and never thought no more about reforming.  I shoved the whole
stayed about one night longer than I ought to, and was just in the act of
steal anything on this place we had the least use for to get ourselves
steal the thing he needs to get away with, Tom said; it's his right; and
stealthy, and got up to the main floor all right, but here comes Aunt
steamboat coughing along down the river.  Then I says to myself, s'pose
steamboat landing; but they couldn't come it.  Every time one of them
steamboat.
steps coming, so he had to pull loose, which snapped the splinter and
steps on the stairs, and blowed out our light and hid; and here comes the
steps to get further, and when he nudged us Jim must glide out first, and
still and solemn, only the girls and the beats holding handkerchiefs to
still talking along, he reached over and kissed Aunt Sally right on the
still, and edging towards the middle of the river, nobody saying a word.
still; he was dead.  Then they pulled his daughter away from him,
stillness was awful creepy and uncomfortable.  Sherburn run his eye slow
stirred up the people, and a lot of men begun to pile down off of the
stirred, and there warn't no more laughing.  Boggs rode off blackguarding
stirring.  That warn't usual.  Next I noticed that Buck was up and gone.
stirrups, and resting their hands on their thighs easy and comfortable
stomped on the floor like a perfect storm, whilst the king held up his
stood and where Sherburn stood, and the people following him around from
stopped now with a folded gown in her lap, and had her face in her hands,
stopped us there and put his eye to the crack, but couldn't make out
stopped; then I doubled back through the woods towards Phelps'.  I
storm let up for good and all; and the first cabin-light that showed I
stormed and haw-hawed till he come back and done it over again, and after
stout board nailed across it.  I says:
straight about it."
straight for Mr. Lothrop's."
straight for town. Well, the very first man I see when I got there was
straight off he pronounced LIKE an Englishman--not the king's way, though
straight off, but laid the paper down and set there thinking--thinking
stranger, so he says:
streak all down my back, because she says:
streak of dawn we got another letter ready, and was wondering what we
streak on the water which you know by the look of the streak that there's
stretched up towards me, a-barking and howling; and more a-coming; you
stretching their necks and listening.  One long, lanky man, with long
striped, all sorts of colors, as splendid as a rainbow.  And--but never
striped, and there warn't no harm in a million of them; but that never
struck up the doxolojer, and everybody joined in with all their might,
struck.
struggled up astraddle and grabbed the bridle, a-reeling this way and
study and think again, I reckoned he was changing his mind.  And so he
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
submit; 'tis my fate.  I am alone in the world--let me suffer; can bear
subscriptions for half a dollar apiece on condition of them paying him in
succeeded in pleasing them and instructing them, he will be deeply
such another clack a body never heard.  Old Mrs. Hotchkiss was the worst;
such another crowding and shouldering and shoving as there was, to
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
such good times.
sucked back.
sudden, like to bust; and the same second the house and all was behind me
suff'rers; because as soon 's it's found out 'at we didn't own it--which
suffering!--come with a broken spirit! come with a contrite heart! come
sugar-bowl without fooling around any.  Just then the nigger woman steps
suitable.  He warn't a boy to meeky along up that yard like a sheep; no,
suited me.  So then I took the bearings of a woody island that was down
superintended.  He could out-superintend any boy I ever see.  He knowed
supper, and wouldn't tell us what the trouble was, and never let on a
supper, nor ever seemed to think about it--and so they kept it up, and
sure-enough queens, and dressed in clothes that cost millions of dollars,
sure; and she would squeeze my hand, or maybe kiss me, and tell me to say
surprise for him to come here to the house first, and for me to by and by
surprised.  He told me to watch out sharp and let him know when the men
suspicioned, he warn't there; so the old man he got a letter out of the
swap knives; the old man grabbed me by the hand and shook, and kept on
sweet and contented as an angel half full of pie, I wish I may never!
sweet and gentle looking, but awful pale and scared.
sword fight in Richard III. and the balcony scene in Romeo and Juliet.
swum down the current the men run along the bank shooting at them and
t'other hand to their eyes, walked slow and solemn over there, everybody
table, with Susan alongside of her, and said how bad the biscuits was,
tag along and drop in, and let on to be a stranger.  But it was a
tails, and let on they're rattlesnakes, and I reckon that 'll have to
take a fresh start, and get there a quarter or a half an hour after you;
take care of that money but his own self; so then I went to his room and
take no consequences of it. Thinks as long as he can hide, it ain't no
take the shuck bed yourself."
take them for PROOFS, and are helped to fool yourselves by these foolish
take to the water and wade down to me and get in--that'll throw the dogs
takes him three or four days?  What are we going to do?--lay around there
talk like an Englishman; and he done it pretty well, too, for a slouch.
talk where he left off.  In a minute or two here comes this undertaker's
talked about all kinds of things--we was always naked, day and night,
talking to him in a low voice, and glancing towards the king now and then
tarred and feathered, and flung in the river!"
tearing down on the run from every which way, some of them putting on
tell him a tale every night; and he kept that up till he had hogged a
tell how long, except maybe frogs or something.
tell on our gang if I hadn't knowed the sale warn't no account and the
tell you; en I knowed jis' 's well 'at I 'uz gwineter be rich agin as I's
tell your uncle Harvey--"
tells all about him, to a dot--paints him like a picture, and tells the
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
terrible--something's happened to the boat, sure!"
than THAT, Huck Finn."
than that--and here we've gone and sold 'em for a song.  Yes, and ain't
than what I was feeling before.  So the duke took his hands off and says:
that
that 'll be the best way."
that 'll help them think so--so don't you lose no time, Jim, but just
that Tom said would be handy for a prisoner to scrabble his name and
that a nigger ain't got any histrionic talent.  Why, the way they played
that and miss them.
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
that come handy.  And yet he made a mighty fuss, one day, after that,
that had a good thing, according to my notion.  Then the Reverend Hobson
that had any sense in it, except coming out so cool and cheeky with that
that had butterflies asleep in it and he didn't want to disturb them, and
that here was the plain hand of Providence slapping me in the face and
that is the idea; for Juliet's a dear sweet mere child of a girl, you
that lowered o'er our housetops, With this regard their currents turn
that money for them or bust.
that nigger, 'n' I lay I'd skin every last nigger on this place but I'D
that old doctor for doing Jim that good turn; and I was glad it was
that pleased everybody too, because then the girls would be well fixed
that ringmaster's place, not for a thousand dollars.  I don't know; there
that shirt--every last inch of it kivered over with secret African writ'n
that the best way to get along with his kind of people is to let them
that there was trouble.  The king says:
that they can get their hands on; and it takes them weeks and weeks and
that they made him do it another time. Well, it would make a cow laugh to
that thing it would fool ANYBODY.  In my opinion, there's a fortune in
that time to come over the water.  So we would put in the day, lazying
that town yonder in daylight--it mightn't be healthy."
that very time!  I tell you, it just bangs anything I ever HEARD of.
that walks this earth!"
that wants to, and goes home and prays for a humble spirit to bear it.
that was under the feather-bed, and crammed it in a foot or two amongst
that was valuable, not on account of being any account, because they
that we could see them plenty soon enough to throw her head this way or
that with sixteen men and twenty-two dogs right on their very heels at
that you didn't come in the dark and fetch your masks.  You brought PART
that young fellow.  Blamed if he didn't inquire about everybody and
that young fool going up to the steamboat, clear through to where she
that!"
that's left behind in the vale of sorrers.  He has done generous by these
that's left now; and, as I was saying, they haven't got here in time."
that's the way of it.  The best way's to let it go, and keep still about
that, for two or three days as we floated along, the raft was a most
that.  So the duke and the king went to overhauling our wigwam, to see
that.  Why, Hare-l--why, Joanna, they never see a holiday from year's end
that; and the next minute he sprung up and dropped the bridle and stood!
the COUNT I'm thinkin' about.  We want to be awful square and open and
the St. Louis and New Orleans papers; and when he mentioned the St. Louis
the afternoon, he says:
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
the arrows of outrageous fortune Than fly to others that we know not of.
the back door.  I never see a family in such a sweat.  They couldn't a
the back yard, where they keep the old boots, and rags, and pieces of
the back, in the dark--and it's just what they WOULD do.
the basket for a spoon sometimes; and so, three times they come out
the beautiful trip to England was most about spoiled for her; she didn't
the bed hid him.  Mrs. Phelps she jumps for him, and says:
the bed when you are up to anything private.  They sets down then, and
the bed-leg, and was ready for bed ourselves.  But Tom thought of
the best friend old Jim ever had in the world, and the ONLY one he's got
the bottom dungeon of the Castle Deef, in the harbor of Marseilles, that
the bottom of THIS fortress was solid rock."
the bush and let them go by, and then dropped in behind them.  They'd had
the cabin?"
the camp-meeting.
the candles, by the help of the calf and the rats and the mixed-up
the chance she wanted.  She stooped down quick at the foot of the bed and
the cold world do its worst; one thing I know--there's a grave somewhere
the cold world, ragged, worn, heart-broken, and degraded to the
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
the corner over there, and raise it.  And don't call it mullen, call it
the crick, here comes a couple of men tearing up the path as tight as
the crowd drops back on each side to let him come.  He says to Boggs,
the crowd like you never see anything like it, and everybody broke down
the daytime, and robbed the lot.  Your newspapers call you a brave people
the dead man's face down in there, with a wet cloth over it, and his
the dead water under a towhead; and then cut young cottonwoods and
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
the doctor begun to laugh; and Levi Bell, the lawyer, says:
the doctor coming till he was gone again.
the dogs went for it, and in two seconds he was out himself and back
the door--and bolt it."
the duke come up in the garret and woke me up, and I see by their look
the duke come up; so I rolled off my pallet and laid with my chin at the
the duke got out his book and read the parts over in the most splendid
the duke played seven-up a while, five cents a game.  Then they got tired
the duke says:
the duke was powerful uneasy.
the duke.  "The first good town we come to we'll hire a hall and do the
the duke.  He was sticking up a bill for the Royal Nonesuch--three-night
the face for a minute, and her eyes lighted up, and it made her powerful
the facts for me.  Preachin's my line, too, and workin' camp-meetin's,
the feather-bed, and don't turn over the straw tick only about twice a
the fence!"  Then there was a racket of ripping and tearing and smashing,
the flies.  There was sheds made out of poles and roofed over with
the gaudiest and prettiest you ever saw, and he lit into that horse with
the gills, and it all amounted to a considerable state of things for
the great tragedy will be performed only two nights more, on accounts of
the handling of Louis XVI., there wouldn't a been no 'Son of Saint Louis,
the hands was gone to the fields; and there was them kind of faint
the hut by the ash-hopper for to examine it.  We went through the yard so
the job was done.  We crept in under Jim's bed and into the cabin, and
the jump to keep you in shirts; and whatever you do manage to DO with 'm
the king says:
the king tell his yarn, and they made the old gentleman tell his'n; and
the king told him everything, just like the young fellow had said it
the king's WAS pretty good for an imitation.  I can't give the old gent's
the kitchen; three little log nigger-cabins in a row t'other side the
the knives--three of them."  So I done it.
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
the leaves it makes you feel mournful, because you feel like it's spirits
the leaves. This was the most awful trouble and most dangersome I ever
the lightning showed me one that wasn't chained I snatched it and shoved.
the lines and cook up a hot breakfast.  And afterwards we would watch the
the loafers had matched half-dollars with him and got every cent but what
the lookout all the time; but it warn't no use, they didn't happen to say
the main point?"
the main shore--it was only two hundred yards--and paddled about a mile
the man left me a-holt of the rope and went behind him to shove him
the men he's ben a-gwyne to chaw up in the last twenty year he'd have
the men jumped off of their horses and grabbed the hurt one and started
the men we had small-pox aboard, and he was so grateful, and said I was
the middle, where there was a village on each side of the river, and the
the mullen, and jews-harping the rats, and petting and flattering up the
the nigger that does up the rooms will get an order to box these duds up
the nigger was crazy.  I says to Sister Damrell--didn't I, Sister
the niggers that wrote it, I 'low I'd take 'n' lash 'm t'll--"
the niggers waited on the rest.  Mary Jane she set at the head of the
the niggers--it warn't no sale, and the niggers will be back before
the night.  When we got to the cabin we took a look at the front and the
the old women was knitting, and some of the young folks was courting on
the pan--something might happen, I don't know what.  And above all, don't
the pie and hid the rope ladder inside of his straw tick, and scratched
the pie.  Being made of a whole sheet, that way, there was rope enough
the pistol-barrel come down slow and steady to a level--both barrels
the plates that Jim throwed out, because they'd fall in the dog-fennel
the poor cat i' the adage, Is sicklied o'er with care, And all the clouds
the preacher he begged him to speak to the people, and he done it.  He
the property for auction straight off--sale two days after the funeral;
the raft gone, we said, 'That little rascal has stole our raft and shook
the raft in a good, safe place about two mile below a little bit of a
the raft with Jim, hiding daytimes and running nights, the way me and Jim
the reefs out of my hind legs, and spun down the river road like a deer,
the rest middling easy."
the rest of the town get roped in; and I knew they'd lay for us the third
the ring, with that sot laying down on him and hanging to his neck, with
the ringmaster going round and round the center-pole, cracking his whip
the river a piece, and as soon as it was fairly dark I crept out with my
the river to see Mr.'--Mr.--what IS the name of that rich family your
the river.  We was down south in the warm weather now, and a mighty long
the road and waylay him.  So I told the folks I reckoned I would go up to
the road was full of women's heads, and there was nigger boys in every
the same, and the whole town following, and I rushed and got a good place
the same, if he's missed anything by it--which I hope he hasn't."
the sly.
the snakes come on watch, so he always had one gang under him, in his
the snakes was asleep the rats was on deck, and when the rats turned in
the sounds got dim and died out.  And when we stepped on to the raft I
the south end, and was padlocked.  Tom he went to the soap-kettle and
the straw and said it was all right now, because a nigger only makes up
the symptoms was first-rate, and he'd been sleeping like that for ever so
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
the things.  The hare-lip she got to pumping me about England, and blest
the thunder; and sure as you are born I did clip it along!
the time where you didn't want them.  Well, they was handsome and
the time, Tom Sawyer," I says.  "Picks is the thing, moral or no moral;
the town and fetch down my baggage.  The old gentleman was for going
the truth, and you want to brace up, Miss Mary, because it's a bad kind,
the undiscovered country from whose bourne no traveler returns, Breathes
the villages again.
the wall and kept mighty still, though quivery; and I wondered what them
the water, here they come!--and just a-laying to their oars and making
the waves warn't running so high now.  About two they come up again,
the way the king's eyes did shine!  He slaps the duke on the shoulder and
the way they always do."
the way you're always going to stop their holes and don't do it; and if
the whole crowd of people standing up shouting and laughing till tears
the wigwam and talk low and confidential two or three hours at a time.
the woods and made for the swamp.  Jim warn't on his island, so I tramped
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
the world to make a name for himself, and yet he didn't know enough to
the world, and now I'm in a strange country, and ain't got no property no
the world--plague TAKE the things, I'll count 'm again."
the world.  You must stay.  It's a long, dusty three mile, and we can't
the worst kind of a fix, Miss Mary."
their bones loose over the way they'd served them people.  The duke says:
their coats as they come.  Pretty soon we was in the middle of a crowd,
their eyes and keeping their heads bent, and sobbing a little.  There
their heads a minute, and the duke he bust into a kind of a little raspy
their heads, so you could a heard a pin fall.  And when they got there
their necks stretched, trying to see, and people on the inside trying to
their skiff hum!  It was the king and the duke.
their teeth and tug at the plug with their hands till they get it in two;
them all day long, whittling them with their Barlow knives; and chawing
them both to get drunk on.  Then in another village they started a
them but jimpson-weeds, and sunflowers, and ash piles, and old curled-up
them dripping from the rafters and places every now and then; and they
them frauds, saying all the time:
them go by; and as they went by I see they had the king and the duke
them out in their regular turns, but he couldn't wait now because he'd
them poor pitiful rascals, it seemed like I couldn't ever feel any
them says, "I'M for going and getting in the cabin FIRST and right NOW,
them so they clean forgot they ever had a trouble in the world; and told
them so thick they kind of clogged up the air, and altogether he shed
them straight, I didn't know which end of me was up; because these men
them talking and cussing and laughing--heard them plain; but we couldn't
them that way on a piece of paper.  "Come, ain't that what you saw?"
them the love and the kisses, and tell them the message.
them was kind as they could be, Tom says:
them went in.  I shoved in there for a minute, but it was too various for
them" (the king and the duke looked sold and foolish, I tell you, to see
them's sick."
them, half the time, somehow.  Yes, she said, say she has run over for to
them.  The duke he begun to abuse him for an old fool, and the king begun
them.  They gained on the boys, but it didn't do no good, the boys had
them."
them."
them; they seemed to stop and fool around a while; then, as we got
then I run back across the room and in behind the door.
then I went on and told her all what I told Uncle Silas before; and then
then I'll loan you one or two ton of it, and won't charge you no back
then all of a sudden he seems to catch his meaning, and jumps for the
then filled up the canoe with water, and loaded rocks into her and sunk
then him and the duke, with a hand across each other's shoulder, and
then run me down if they could; and if they got me they'd tar and feather
then sighs again, and says:
then sometimes the one that owns the tobacco looks mournful at it when
then such another hugging and kissing I never see yet.  And everybody
then the king he shoved in and got off some of his usual rubbage, and at
then they put their arms around each other's necks, and hung their chins
then they shook hands with the duke and didn't say nothing, but just kept
then we set down on the sandy bottom where the water was about knee deep,
then we slid by, pretty wide away from the town, and didn't hoist our
then we was plumb played out, and most drownded with sweat.  We see it
then you don't have no quarrels, and don't get into no trouble.  If they
then, if she ain't too tired, she's coming home; and if she is, she'll be
then?--and Jim--poor Jim!"
there ain't no good way but one.  I got to steal that money, somehow; and
there ain't no telling how soon you are going to need it, away from home
there ain't no use in WASTING it on them.
there and blubber like a baby--it's fitten for you, after the way you've
there and lock them in, and can kill them at your leasure.  Don't do
there and says:
there in heaven, whilst I was stealing a poor old woman's nigger that
there she set me down in a split-bottomed chair, and set herself down on
there she stood, a-beaming and a-smiling like a house afire, and I
there to do up your majesty's room, or something, s'posing you was up;
there to get your breath.  By jings, we forgot to fasten that lean-to
there warn't a blessed snake up there when we went back--we didn't half
there warn't anything for it but to try the Royal Nonesuch another shake.
there warn't no room in bed for him, skasely; and when there was, a body
there warn't no such plantation; so he allowed he would advertise Jim in
there was so many of them and they done it in such a rousing way; then he
there where the feud was; and such-like times; and would always call me
there, because Jim's counter-pin hung down most to the ground, and you'd
there--so he copies for me.  It's HIS hand you've got there, not mine."
there.  I see him there.  He come in a canoe, along with Tim Collins and
there.  When they're deep they won't stop for a hail.  A Cincinnati boat
there."
these fixings, and so don't disturb them.  The duke's room was pretty
these gray hairs and this premature balditude.  Yes, gentlemen, you see
these rips got out of patience and come for us.
they all died off but me and pa and my brother Ike.  Pa, he 'lowed he'd
they always do.  And here comes the white woman running from the house,
they bent over and looked in the coffin, and took one sight, and then
they bust out a-crying so you could a heard them to Orleans, most; and
they can't, words being too weak and cold, and all that kind of rot and
they chop it off.  'Ring up Fair Rosamun.'  Fair Rosamun answers the
they could foot it.  I thought I was a goner, for whenever anybody was
they could have the heart to serve Jim such a trick as that, and make him
they could to keep off the dull times for her.  So she took and dusted us
they didn't amount to nothing; but I minded the trouble we had to lay in
they do at other places except church.
they got it."
they have, won't the complices get away with that bag of gold Peter Wilks
they made a heap of fuss over him, and fixed him up prime, and give him
they might, and she couldn't stand them no way you could fix it; and
they must a BEEN sperits--because, YOU know our dogs, and ther' ain't no
they never come up no more.  Well, for the next day or two we had
they see the yawl a-coming, and when the king says:
they slid along so quiet and smooth and lovely.  Here is the way we put
they wanted to go to England; and the king and the duke would ruther Mary
they warn't fools they'd sleep in your hair, Silas--YOU'D never find it
they was beats and bummers, that's all, though that's worth something.
they was bowed and bent, and about ready to tumble in, The people had
they was through with the job and was tapering off with a kind of generl
they'd be along pretty soon and give me 'bout half an hour's start, and
they'd had in other times along the river.
they'd jumped overboard and took a swim it chippered them up a good deal.
they'd lost the twelve disciples.  Well, if ever I struck anything like
they'd settle back again till there was a dog fight.  There couldn't
they'd slide right out and get away with it.  If she was to fetch in help
they're hurt.  I hain't done nothing to him.  He's told some stretchers,
they've played this family and this town for all they're worth, so I'll
thin out, and him and the duke could break loose and get away.  Anyway,
thing is for you to treat him KIND, and not be saying things to make him
thing out of my head, and said I would take up wickedness again, which
thing that's going to happen; the thing that's going to happen is, the
thing to another person that will make THEM feel ashamed."
thing's awful mixed now; trying to better it, I've worsened it a hundred
thing, and what a thundering hornet's-nest we'd got ourselves into, so we
thing. Come along, Hines; come along, the rest of you.  We'll take these
things oncomfortable.  It ain't my fault I warn't born a duke, it ain't
things that happened one time or another in the town, or to George's
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
things was that glad and happy it made my heart ache to see them getting
things. They always dig out with a case-knife--and not through dirt, mind
things; but that was a lie:  he got every blessed one of them out of that
think he died afterwards.  He was a Baptist.  Your uncle Silas knowed a
think it over some time or other, it's so kind of strange and unregular.
think she'd like me to kiss her, sir?"
think there could be such frauds and rascals in the world.  Oh, he done
think they're talking about YOU.  As a general thing it makes a body wish
think what work it was to make the saws, and pens, and inscriptions, and
thinking about his wife and his children, away up yonder, and he was low
thinking and thinking, and never saying nothing, by the half a day at a
thinking you had pluck enough to lynch a MAN!  Because you're brave
thinking.  Then he turns off slow and dreamy towards the stairs, saying:
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
this country.  He hasn't had any too much time--and besides he mightn't a
this evening and surprise the folks.
this fur all right, but I was hard and tight aground now.  I see it
this long journey, and after all we'd done for them scoundrels, here it
this misable business; but, alas, the money ain't there; you k'n send and
this money, and then take and GIVE IT TO THE GIRLS."
this morning if I go out to one side and study over it a little.  So I
this pitiful rascal out--I BEG you to do it.  Will you?"
this till his owner come, or he was sold at auction because he didn't
this time, but people that was at the show the other two nights.  I stood
this way and that in the woods, whooping and screeching; but it warn't no
this whole town, I reckon, and never hear the last of this thing as long
this; if it warn't so, I wouldn't approve of it, nor I wouldn't stand by
though they was all over tar and feathers, and didn't look like nothing
though, and Jim was going to call me; but he changed his mind, because he
though; I was all of a tremble to see his danger.  But pretty soon he
thought he'd keep the thing up till he tired them people out, so they'd
thought nothing, only I reckoned they was afraid they had waked up my
thought of her a many and a many a million times, and of her saying she
thought to fetch a lantern.  But they sailed into digging anyway by the
thought we was right on the track of a solution, but it's gone to grass,
thousand and one tales that way, and then he put them all in a book, and
thousand dollars--and kind treatment, too.  I had everything I needed,
three days to fix it.  If I'd a called it a bolthead it would a done just
three fights.  By and by somebody sings out:
three girls was standing in the door.  Mary Jane WAS red-headed, but that
three nights.  I never see money hauled in by the wagon-load like that
three tin plates in the bottom of the pan under the vittles; and so Jim
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
through a lot of difficulties and dangers, where there warn't one of them
through the setting-room the old man he took up his hat, and the
through their fingers and let them jingle down on the floor; and the king
through there couldn't nobody in the cabin ever know there was any hole
through; but Jim he took the pick and soon made it big enough.  Then Tom
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
throw anything in the way of a fair, open, out-and-out investigation o'
throws her arms around my neck and told me to say it AGAIN, say it AGAIN,
tie the sack, and they worked out somehow, and left.  But it didn't
tied him before he knowed what he was about, and we never had no trouble.
tied up in little bunches with thread.  That was to keep witches off.  He
tight place right at the outstart.  But the king he only looked
till he asked them. So Jim and me set to majestying him, and doing this
till he lets the cat out of the bag?  No, sir; I know what I'LL do.  I'll
till pretty late to-night.  I says:
till they catched up; and when they see it warn't nobody but us, and no
till we see Aunt Sally coming, and then Tom went to counting the spoons
time 's coming when you're going to feel sick whenever you think of this
time somebody had let them loose, and here they come, making powwow
time to give the crowd the slip; but that big husky had me by the wrist
time, amost.  Why, I'd give two dollars to have it read to me; 'n' as for
time, and dreadful blue and desperate.
time, and that made the duke mad; and everybody left, anyway, before the
time, like enough.  There was generly hogs in the garden, and people
time. S'pose he DON'T do nothing with it? ain't it there in his bed, for
time. Yonder was the banks and the islands, across the water; and maybe a
time."
time."
time."
time."
time?  If I know William--and I THINK I do--he--well, I'll jest ask him."
times before he lets up.  Then the king says, "I knowed it; I reckon THAT
times in England whilst we was waiting to find out whether Mary Jane's
times like a person that's got a dry throat, and then says:
times they DIDN'T steal that; and flour, and candles, and candlesticks,
times, and I wish to goodness I'd just let it alone, dad fetch the whole
times, and missed fire and fell every time, and the last time most busted
times."
times; and they leaned every which way, and had gates that didn't generly
tire them out or they'd got to tire us out, and they done it.  Then we
titles and estates--the infant real duke was ignored.  I am the lineal
to Louisville on business.  But the rest was on hand, and so they all
to Providence to put the right words in my mouth when the time come; for
to THAT old ram, anyway.  All I say is, kings is kings, and you got to
to and liked.  There warn't no more popular man in town than what that
to answer questions but me; so I didn't want the plan to begin working
to be a prisoner."
to be down there a-whoopin' up the mournin' than up here givin' 'em a
to be gained in your being the first to ever try it than any other way
to be left free to work my plans.
to be lost at a time.  If he ain't here to supper, your uncle 'll go."
to be the least afraid, because we would see he got away, SURE.  So Jim
to been ashamed of yourself to stand by and hear it saddled on to a lot
to blame, somehow. I judged that that piece of paper meant that Miss
to carry him to the store; and that minute the two boys started on the
to chance it; I'll up and tell the truth this time, though it does seem
to change to a red flann'l one till I can get time to make a new one.
to climb over the fence with, and for the women to stand on when they are
to come back and ha'nt ME for?"
to come out."
to crowd through the brush and get up the crick a little ways; then you
to death.
to die, but didn't.  It was the most undigestible sawdust I ever see; and
to do with him, the ignorant tramp, with his idiotic Greek and Hebrew, as
to do with them except when they're on me; and I don't believe I've ever
to do; and if I had I couldn't a done it, because that nigger busted in
to eat before I went ashore; so he took me in the texas to the officers'
to forget to remember to not deny about hiding the money-bag again.  That
to get him. I am to be off a piece and blow a tin horn if I see any
to get his part by heart.
to get one of us, sure, before we got through.  We got her half way; and
to get out of the reach of the powwow we reckoned the duke's work in the
to get what money I'd got out of the Nonesuch and one thing or another,
to go four or five mile they was booming mad, and gave us a cussing, and
to go no deeper--didn't want to rob a lot of orphans of EVERYTHING they
to have 'm, but doan' gimme no rats; I hain' got no use f'r um, skasely."
to her.  If anybody can persuade him, she can."
to hide behind that; but maybe it was luckier I didn't.
to him, and mentioned often in his letters; and so he will name the same,
to me for two hours; and at last, when my chin was so tired it couldn't
to much, now't he's only got one hand to work them with.  We are who we
to mush, and it was awful to see.  Children was heeling it ahead of the
to myself except the solid dark, and the now-and-then glares, and the
to of them, and wanted to get entirely shut of them.
to one of his ancesters with a long wooden handle that come over from
to or not, and set with the family, on account of its being the law.  But
to our church, she says:
to ourselves, that we was at it thirty-seven years.  Then we can snatch
to pay for the things they buy till a whole day after the auction on
to pet the dogs and make friends with the nigger that fed Jim--if it WAS
to pray for HER, blamed if I wouldn't a done it or bust.
to pull a buckskin latch-string, they don't fasten the doors--but that
to represent his mother in disguise, and Jim 'll take the nigger woman's
to sass back, and the minute they was fairly at it I lit out and shook
to save HIM, hain't we?  Of course.  Well, then, we won't blow on them."
to see me again, but it warn't.  He nearly cried he was so glad, but he
to see that they don't get away from here till we've looked into this
to sending for that money and letting us keep it till they prove they're
to sleep again when I noticed how still it was--didn't seem to be anybody
to sleep.  Wake up by and by, and look to see what done it, and maybe see
to steal Jim, and I will study out one, too; and we'll take the one we
to swallow EVERYTHING.  Well, whilst they was at it a steamboat landed,
to swell himself up for another speech.  He says:
to take us fourteen hundred mile, deck passage nor no other way.  Well,
to talk.  He says:
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
to the nigger cabins and drop one, private, in Jim's coffee-pot, in the
to the village, or else he will chalk this raft so he can find it again.
to this country about the end of the last century, to breathe the pure
to wait, and we drove off a little piece, and I told him the kind of a
to wake.  In about half an hour Aunt Sally comes gliding in, and there I
to wit, as follows, vizz.:--Rev. Mr. Hobson, and Deacon Lot Hovey, and
to work that off--I never see such a girafft as the king was for wanting
to worry along the best he could with an onion.  He promised he would go
to write on the plate and throw it out.  You don't HAVE to be able to
to year's end; never go to the circus, nor theater, nor nigger shows, nor
to you."
to, and run--and it warn't a good place."
to, and the whole street packed with people listening and laughing and
to-night--cravats warranted to WEAR, too--longer than WE'D need 'em."
to. Maybe you can get him to believe that Jim IS your nigger--some idiots
to."
to; and as we struck into the town and up through the--here comes a
to; and he said he would, more particular if it was dark, because the
to?"
tobacco or scratch.  What a body was hearing amongst them all the time
tobacco, and gaping and yawning and stretching--a mighty ornery lot.
together, and you couldn't hear yourself think for the noise.  It was a
together--that is, I mean the doctor was shipping a sick man to t'other
together; what do you think?"
told him it would be one o'clock in about fifteen minutes, and so he MUST
told me how we was to do; then we went and waited around the spoon-basket
told me they were coming, and begged me to help you to get off.  So I
told me to tell you she's gone over there in a dreadful hurry--one of
told them he was a pirate--been a pirate for thirty years out in the
told you I was expecting trouble myself, and would scatter out WITH you.
tolerable cheap.  I could a stayed if I wanted to, but I didn't want to.
tongue just WENT it--she a-chipping in, and spitting fire all along, and
too good a start; they got to the woodpile that was in front of my tree,
too sick or too old was gone to camp-meeting, about two mile back in the
too, and see if he couldn't strike something.  We was out of coffee, so
too, because it was on the clo's-line yesterday--I see it there myself.
too, for that matter--because he was one of them kind that can't bear to
took a walk.
took and lined her with dough, and set her in the coals, and loaded her
took it off, and know it by a better way than your wool-gethering memory,
took nine months to make it.
took up the spoon, and--"
top of my ladder, and waited to see if anything was going to happen.  But
torchlight procession if we wanted to, I believe.  Now, whilst I think of
touch a case-knife with them sooner."
touch her on the back of her neck with a feather and she would jump right
toughest, troublesomest piece of old brass candlestick or something like
towards the shouting and clattering; and then we up-steam again, and
towhead, I begun to look sharp for a boat to borrow, and the first time
town again I'd be ready to get down and lick his boots for shame.  That's
town.  I can't ever get it out of my memory, the sight of them poor
track. Aunt Sally was a good DEAL uneasy; but Uncle Silas he said there
tracks.  I did, mos' sholy.  Mars Sid, I FELT um--I FELT um, sah; dey was
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
tragedians.  But a big, fine looking man jumps up on a bench and shouts:
treat my little 'Lizabeth so ornery.  She warn't on'y 'bout fo' year ole,
treated in England?  Do they treat 'em better 'n we treat our niggers?"
treated so?"
tree, and bucks and wenches looking over every fence; and as soon as the
tried their best to coax him off of his horse so they could lock him up
trip down the river; and I see Jim before me all the time:  in the day
trouble 'bout THAT speculation, you bet you.  Say, gimme a chaw tobacker,
trouble and worry and responsibility to be a prisoner than anything he
trouble was still a-going on.  I was mighty downhearted; so I made up my
trouble."
true; en heah she is!  DAH, now! doan' talk to ME--signs is SIGNS, mine I
truest friend a pirate ever had!"
trust; but no, they must count it.  So they counts it, and it comes out
truth."
tryin' to sleep, I ever see.  No, sah, gimme g'yarter-snakes, 'f I's got
trying to take Jim away from me, saying they believed he was a runaway
trying to think what I better do, and I run across a boy walking, and
tugged at them till I got them ashore; then I covered up their faces, and
tunnel by the cypress trees, and all of us but Jim took the canoe and
turn up and make us pay for him, sure.  So that cooled them down a
turn. The duke he never let on he suspicioned what was up, but just went
turned blue all over, and died in the hope of a glorious resurrection.
turned her head around slow, and when her eye lit on me--I got up and
turned the corner, and nearly rammed my head into Uncle Silas's stomach!
turns to the new old gentleman and says:
two sides; and on the side I warn't acquainted with--which was the north
two, and then everything was dead still, and the parson begun his solemn
two-thirds around she'd whirl back again, and say it again; and she was
uncle Peter used to think so much of?--I mean the one that--"
uncles of yourn ain't no uncles at all; they're a couple of frauds
uncomfortable all up the other.  Being Tom Sawyer was easy and
uncommon lively place, for there warn't nothing but sword fighting and
under the curtain two or three foot from where I was.  I stuck tight to
under the point, about three mile above the town--been there a couple
under when the lightning struck.
understand the reasons for it, and how it's the custom in Europe; so
undertaker was.
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
unregular it would be, and set down and told him all about our plans, and
up a crick amongst the cypress woods, to see if I couldn't get some
up and ask him would he let them kiss him for to remember him by; and he
up and say, 'Why, he stumped his TOE.'  Would ther' be any sense in that?
up the raft that way for, and laid by in the daytime instead of running
up through the bush to where my canoe was tied, and hopped in and pulled
up to THIS time, as long as I couldn't seem to get any answer out of you
up to the sick-room, and had a high talk; and Tom give Jim forty dollars
up towards the sky.  The same second I see a young girl coming on the
up with rag rope, and put on a dough roof, and shut down the lid, and put
up, and have it all to yourself."
up, but stayed with them as long as we could; because we allowed we'd
up-shore till we got kind of tired and beat out; and tied up the canoe
up-town at all.
us by this dear sympathy and these holy tears, and so he thanks them out
us! We heard them sing out:
us, and run off down the river.'"
us; and then we'll hitch up and take you down to Nichols's."
use up three wash-pans full of flour before we got through, and we got
use--old Jim was gone.  Then I set down and cried; I couldn't help it.
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
used to do before.  Wouldn't that plan work?"
used to niggers, and suppos'n' 'em honest, like servants in England.  The
verses--kind of sweet and saddish--the name of it was, "Yes, crush, cold
very afternoon."
very decided:
very huffy, and some of them wanted to hang Jim for an example to all the
very long for Uncle Silas to hear from down there by New Orleans.  He'll
very sorry he was so pushed, and so was everybody; they wished he could
very well, Tom said; he said he never see a thing work more satisfactory.
very--why, goodness sakes, you can guess what kind of a fluster I was
village they yawled us ashore.  About two dozen men flocked down when
village, not from below.  So I just took a look, and shoved along,
wagging their tails around me, and making friends with me.  There ain't
wagon when he was starting home through the woods.  The king said, take
wagons.  There was considerable whisky drinking going on, and I seen
wait for Sid; and he said there warn't no use in it, and I must come
wait for him to howl.  Why, he didn't only look like he was dead, he
wait, and when he comes back if he says he's got to go any more I'll get
waked up the sun was away up over my head!  I shot out and went for the
want no better book than what your face is.  A body can set down and read
want to be hung if I could get away.  So I never stopped running till I
want to--"
want to.  I'll think the thing over--I'll invent a plan that'll fix it.
want to.  Whenever we see anybody coming we can tie Jim hand and foot
want?"
wanted it to hide a knife in, and smuggle it to Jim to kill the seneskal
wanted the ADVENTURE of it; and I'd a waded neck-deep in blood to
wanted to jump right in, but I says:
wanted to see the fun, so we went down the lightning-rod, and both of us
wanted us to call them kings and dukes, I hadn't no objections, 'long as
wants 'm to do fur me I doan' have to ast 'm twice, honey.  Dat Jack's a
wants to find out something about these two, let them send up to
wants to get up some trouble with this country. How does he go at it
warm for me.  Shall I go, private, and tell Mary Jane?  No--I dasn't do
warn't a bit of use to try to go ahead--I'd got to throw up my hand.  So
warn't a prisoner.  So we allowed we would steal everything there was
warn't gwyne to die for a thousan' year."
warn't no back-down to her, I judge.  You may say what you want to, but
warn't no more smile to him than there is to a ham.
warn't no occasion to be--boys will be boys, he said, and you'll see this
warn't no other sound but the scraping of the feet on the floor and
warn't no perfumery, neither, not by a long sight.  I smelt sickly eggs
warn't no use for ME to put in.  "Why, Aunty, it cost us a power of work
warn't no use to try and hide it from Him.  Nor from ME, neither.  I
warn't no use; he stormed right along, and said any man that pretended to
warn't no use; we got to go and fetch Jim So he raised up his bed and
warn't nobody in there but the remainders of Peter; so I shoved on by;
warn't romantical enough for Tom Sawyer; no way would do him but he must
warn't surprised.  Said he swum along behind me that night, and heard me
warn't the horriblest looking outrage I ever see.  Then the duke took and
warn't, but on account of them being relicts, you know, and we snaked her
warn't.  The frocks was hung along the wall, and before them was a
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
was a corn-shuck tick; there's always cobs around about in a shuck tick,
was a kind of dull line--that was the woods on t'other side; you couldn't
was a rattling big distance off, away out there in the middle of the
was a rush, and a BANG, BANG, BANG! and the bullets fairly whizzed around
was actuly beginning to believe what he was saying HIMSELF; but pretty
was all come to nothing, everything all busted up and ruined, because
was all right.  They hadn't stirred.
was all they asked me.  Then the doctor whirls on me and says:
was allowed to come to the palace considerable; but the duke stayed huffy
was around.  They took and shoved the bag through a rip in the straw tick
was awful.  Hines he hurt my wrist dreadful pulling and tugging so, and I
was getting pretty sultry for us, seemed to me.  And I peeped out, and in
was going to be trouble.  The streets was full, and everybody was
was going to come from.  Pretty soon Tom says:
was going to start with the lunch, but says:
was going up a few mile to see an old friend on a farm up there.  The
was gone to get a nap.  So I slips to the sick-room, and if I found him
was good to hear; and I wished I could tell her a thousand lies, so she
was his way when he'd got his plans set.
was in a mighty sour way.  He scolded us for everything, and we couldn't
was in my line, being brung up to it, and the other warn't.  And for a
was in such a fidget now that some was wanting to start right NOW and lay
was in, and in for good, I might as well go the whole hog.
was in; and I was kinder stunned; everything was going so different from
was just as safe to not to.  So I never said nothing.
was most putrified with astonishment when you give me that smack."
was my money.  Where is he?--I want my nigger."
was often moaning and mourning that way nights, when he judged I was
was out of the cabin, and we had to rush, and they heard us and let drive
was past and done.  So then she kissed me, and patted me on the head, and
was pleased most to death, and busted out, and says:
was right behind Jim's bed now, and we'd dig in under it, and when we got
was right on him before I could shirk.  He looked astonished, and says:
was set up three or four foot above ground on stilts, so as to be out of
was so fagged I would a just laid down to blow and gasp if I could
was sound enough judgment; but you take the average man, and he wouldn't
was standing on, and made us go right off to bed the minute we was done
was studying up some kind of worse deviltry than ever.  We turned it over
was that these chaps didn't know one another.
was the way it was before, but I dasn't go to look in under it, with
was too strong for them.  I asked him what was become of young Harney and
was when I got them out of the office.  I hain't looked into them, I
was, up a stump again!  She motioned me to be still, and set down by me,
was. He wouldn't trust me; he wanted to make sure of having me out of the
was:
wash-pan--afraid the solder would melt; but Uncle Silas he had a noble
watch.  By and by he come out, and we went and set down on the woodpile
watchers hadn't seen me; so I looked through the crack, and everything
watchers was gone.  There warn't nobody around but the family and the
watching the corpse all sound asleep on their chairs.  The door was open
water it with your tears."
water now, so I went right along, her eyes a-blazing higher and higher
water, and loaded down with chains, till he's claimed or sold!"
watermelons and green corn and such-like truck.
wave her ears whilst the pigs was milking her, and look as happy as if
waves would get to us, a long time after she was gone, and joggle the
way I've seen them kind of interruptions do lots of times.  There was a
way Tom told me to.  It said:
way down the river, eleven hundred mile, and find out what that creetur's
way it ought to be done.  But WE can't fool along; we got to rush; we
way the little niggers was going.  She was smiling all over so she could
way the whole three days.  So pretty soon he says:
way without anybody to watch him.  So now I got to go and trapse all the
way, and t'other gang having a circus over him, and if he got up to hunt
way, sometimes another.  But there's always somebody spying around that
ways from home.  We begun to come to trees with Spanish moss on them,
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
ways.
we can't.  Things being so uncertain, what I recommend is this:  that we
we cleared out for the mill, leaving Jim at work.  We smouched the
we could, to bake the pie in, and took it down cellar and stole it full
we couldn't hardly see anything, it was so dark; but Jim was there, sure
we got this little raft on credit from our friends and are going down to
we had a lovely rope that you could a hung a person with.  We let on it
we must have was a lot of them rotten chunks that's called fox-fire, and
we say on the boards."
we set in, like we done before with the duke, and tried to comfort HIM.
we was alive and well and she had us still, stead of fretting over what
we wouldn't let him.  Then he give us a piece of his mind, but it didn't
we'd a seed de raf'.  But it's jis' as well we didn't, 'kase now she's
we'd got to have it; so he took a think.  When he had ciphered it out he
we'd have to knock off for a week to let our hands get well--couldn't
we'll find out SOMETHING before we get through."
we'll let it go.  But there's one thing--he can have a rope ladder; we
we's all right now.  I ben a-buyin' pots en pans en vittles, as I got a
we.  But I reckoned it was about as well the way it was.
weather-boarding behind the smoke-house."
week, and Fourth of July?"
weight er my finger on um, not f'r ten hund'd thous'n billion dollars, I
welcome.  But he needn't a worried--it was jest what I was at."
well I took it OFF, because--"
well once, you young scamp, and I lay I'll tan the Old Harry out o' both
well out towards the middle of the river, and not show a light till we
well, en one day she was a-stannin' aroun', en I says to her, I says:
well, that looked kind of reasonable, so I didn't say nothing against it,
well.  You want to set on your bed nights before you go to sleep, and
went a-weaving around the ring so gentle and wavy and graceful, the men
went by, and then dived in under the tent.  I had my twenty-dollar gold
went down there to see if there was any chance in that place for our
were the only ones that come out here; George was the married brother;
what I had allowed for; stead of being fixed so I could take my own time
what a stir there was when Jim run away; and I told Tom all about our
what do you say--hey?"
what he can hear, and I'm a-branching out to get something to eat for us,
what if it is?  I'm low down; and I'm a-going to steal him, and I want
what in the world to make of it.  I'm at my wit's end, and I don't mind
what it was like; but he said he had been in this country so long, and
what it's worth, or all we got, and then let him get ashore.
what she was doing, she would just lay that work down and light out.  I
what the beds was like.  My bed was a straw tick better than Jim's, which
what they was for.  And told him how to keep a journal on the shirt with
what was left.  And after they got a little quiet again she says:
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
what's tattooed on his breast.  It's jest a small, thin, blue arrow
what's the matter with you.  Yes, you're all right; you're fixed very
when I see that truck I thought we'd lost you, for I knowed by the color
when I sold 'em I hadn't missed the money yit, so they got clean away
when I stole a watermelon out of the nigger-patch and eat it; and he made
when I wanted it.  And yet, you know, it's kind of natural to hide under
when I was telling how him and me put in that dratted night paddling
when a king escapes, f'rinstance.  And the same with a king's son; it
when he done it the third time he says:
when he sees the canoe he didn't like the look of her--said she was big
when he wants to send any little common ordinary mysterious message to
when it's cooked right--and whilst I eat my supper we talked and had a
when the dead man says ther's six thous'n dollars, you know, we don't
when the river rose pa had a streak of luck one day; he ketched this
when they all come riding in, two and two, a gentleman and lady, side by
when they come to kiss you good-morning, and never--"
when we get down the river a hundred mile or two I could write back to
when we was pretty well down the State of Arkansaw, we come in sight of a
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
whenever the mosquitoes would let us--the new clothes Buck's folks made
where I judged was Phelps's place, and hid my bundle in the woods, and
where his hands was crossed, which made me creep, they was so cold, and
where to find him."
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
where you'll go to. Then I says:
wherever it is. It's gaudy, Huck.  I wish there was a moat to this cabin.
which he reckoned he'd decide on.  He says:
which showed he warn't in his right mind; then she flung up her hands,
whilst we was hustling to get under the bed.  But we got under all right,
whirled in with the pick and shovel, and in about two hours and a half
whiskers is goin' to look oncommon odd on her, maybe."
whispering--spirits that's been dead ever so many years--and you always
whispers, 'Heel it now, or they'll hang ye, sure!' and I lit out.  It
white as a sheet, and says:
white horse-hair wig and whiskers; and then he took his theater paint and
white-washed some time or another, but the duke said it was in Clumbus'
whitened a little; he couldn't help it; and it was mighty still in there,
whitewashed some time or another; round-log kitchen, with a big broad,
whizzed along after them till we was nearly to the mill, and then struck
wid you on de lan' 'dout havin' to shout at you, but when I see dat house
widow Bartley and our tribe.  I watched their faces to see if anything
wigwam and tore up one of the duke's shirts for to bandage him, but he
wigwam to think.  But I couldn't come to nothing.  I thought till I wore
wild.
wildcats; and to make it more scary the sky was darking up, and the
will be at rest."  He went on a-wiping.
will be renamed.
will start in and cave along and cave along till it all caves into the
will tell you that.  You try--that's all I ask; just try for two or three
will, but this is a St. Louis one."
willows, and hid the raft with them.  Then we set out the lines.  Next we
window-hole before this, only there wouldn't be no use trying to travel
winter, and likely went north, and whoever would catch him and send him
wished.  But soft you, the fair Ophelia: Ope not thy ponderous and marble
wisht dey'd lemme 'lone, I does."
witches went for him mostly in the dark, and it was good to have folks
with Aunt Sally, just as sure as you're born.  Now, the way I look at it,
with a dog or two swinging to each ear, and three or four dozen more
with a double-barrel gun in his hand, and takes his stand, perfectly ca'm
with a rope, and lay him in the wigwam and show this handbill and say we
with a ten-foot chain on his leg.  Why, drat it, Huck, it's the stupidest
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
with bread and meat and things; and whilst the others was leaving, the
with bucket of water and a gourd; hound asleep there in the sun; more
with guns!
with hands that looked like they'd been chawed.  Tom was in high spirits.
with her mouth open and her hands up; and as for me, I wished I was in
with his bundle over his shoulder on a bar sinister; and a couple of
with his gray hair a-flying. Everybody that could get a chance at him
with it.  My servant here k'n tell you 'bout it, gentlemen."
with me a long time, and said what a splendid boy Sid was, and didn't
with pleasure and astonishment.
with stars, and we used to lay on our backs and look up at them, and
with the case-knives till most midnight; and then we was dog-tired, and
with the nail for a chisel and an iron bolt from the rubbage in the
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
with the tears running down their faces; and when all the mourners had
with them bags.  Jump out and he'p the gentleman, Adolphus"--meaning me,
with them, you must up and say I told you the whole thing beforehand, and
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net
with, it would a been all right.  So I let it go at that, though I
with.  The king said it was all the more homely and more pleasanter for
without a cent, and he was glad of it; it was the blessedest thing that
without any more pride, or rightness, or feeling, than to stoop to this
without knowing it, and so we'll go and do him one without HIM knowing
women; the best authorities uses their own blood.  Jim can do that; and
won't be long after we've slid--the sale won't be valid, and it 'll all
won't let to-morrow go by without stopping up them holes."
won't look into noth'n'en fine it out f'r deyselves, en when YOU fine it
won't ye?"
wonderful things, like finding water and gold with a "divining-rod,"
wondering how this was going to help me out of my scrape; and at last,
woodpile where the steamboats lands I worked along under the trees and
woods.  The king got the directions, and allowed he'd go and work that
woodyard, likely, and piled by them cheats so you can throw a dog through
word about the new letter, but didn't need to, because we knowed as much
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
word--I druther have it than another man's kiss-the-Bible."  She smiled
words out, I was so anxious; but I told Tom as quick as I could we must
words, nor I can't imitate him; but he turned around to the crowd, and
work on the pirates.
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
worked like she wanted to scratch him; and she says:
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
works.
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.
world and friends, fretted his sorrowful life. 3.  Here a lonely heart
world betwixt me and sudden death but just them tattoo-marks.  If they
world, and the only property."
world, and the preacher was pinting him right.  Lawyer Bell was away up
world, this breaking heart"--and he left that all set up and ready to
worse pies."
worth fifteen of mine for style, and would make Jim just as free a man as
worth it, too.  There was plenty other farmer-preachers like that, and
would a been a miserable business to have any unfriendliness on the raft;
would a done MORE generous by 'em if he hadn't ben afeard o' woundin' his
would a throwed more style into it, but I can't do that very handy, not
would be coming up the river or down.  But I go a good deal on instinct;
would let him scrabble them all on.  Jim said it would take him a year to
would make Mary Jane comfortable, and it wouldn't cost nothing.  Then I
would pray for me; and if ever I'd a thought it would do any good for me
would put small things in uncle's coat-pockets and he must steal them
would rip and tear and rair up behind when he was getting it off.
would say to him, "Don't you thank me, don't you give me no credit; it
would she think of me? Blame it, I says, I might get hunted up and
would sneak out and go for the woods till the weather moderated.  She
would take supper here with them this evening, and help set up with the
would tell her that Sid was all right, and would be home in the morning,
would tell.  I was a-studying over my text in Acts Seventeen before
would thou couldst; For who would bear the whips and scorns of time, The
would work, and it just worked noble; when Jim bit into it it most mashed
would you want to saw his leg off for, anyway?"
would, because then we'd have as many years as we wanted, and no hurry;
would.
wouldn't a done no good; and, besides, it was just as I said:  you
wouldn't ever happened.
wouldn't run over them.  A scow or a raft went by so close we could hear
wouldn't trade it off to be a duke, nor mate of a steamboat, nor clown in
wouldn't."
wrap him round your neck and put his head in your mouth."
wrench off the board."
writing, and anybody can tell, easy enough, HE didn't write them--fact
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
wrongfully out'n a high place."
wrote another one to tell you I was coming; and I s'pose he--"
wrote out a sign on a shingle so:
wuz him."
yaller girl's frock."
yaller janders, and brain-fever, and I don't know what all."
yards, and says:
year, and so it warn't in no danger of getting stole now.
years of bitter captivity, perished a noble stranger, natural son of
years to dig out through a DIRT foundation, do you?"
yell every time, but dasn't answer, because he didn't want nobody to pick
yer ole shirt, en you knows I got to keep de journal on dat."
yer poor little lambs that he loved and sheltered, and that's left
yesterday afternoon, and camped on a piece of a raft we found, and about
yesterday evening."
yet here's a case where I'm blest if it don't look to me like the truth
yet, so we had to wait a little while.
yet. Anyways, it was plenty good enough for ME; and wherever I run across
yonder, cold but joyful."
you HANDLE the witch-things."
you MEAN," says I to myself; "and when you get through robbing it you'll
you a many and a many a time, and I'll PRAY for you, too!"--and she was
you ain't a ghost?"
you all goes to see sometimes?"
you back again, honey."
you can read it along the road to Mr. Lothrop's, if you want to.  Do you
you come near spiling the whole business, because the men come before we
you could ever think of to save your life."
you could hear a fiddle or a song coming over from one of them crafts.
you could see a spark or two--on a raft or a scow, you know; and maybe
you couldn't tell nothing about her only whether she was a stern-wheel or
you deffersit ME no more deffersits, long 's YOU live!"
you didn't bring a man with you; that's one mistake, and the other is
you en me; en I ast 'm if dey gwyne to grab a young white genlman's
you go right along, Miss Mary Jane, and I'll fix it with all of them.
you had to contrive them all out of your own head.  Now look at just that
you if I catch you meddling with him again--"
you keep mum and not let on.  Will you?"
you know. So the duke said it WAS kind of hard to have to lay roped all
you know; but after that he never bit into nothing but what he jabbed his
you little rapscallions, that's been making all this trouble, and turned
you must stand by me all you can."
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
you ought to seen old Henry the Eight when he was in bloom.  He WAS a
you raise a yell, and hang yourselves on to that half-a-man's coat-tail,
you think of no way?"
you to tell me; and every last thing you can think of."
you warn't in no hurry, I'd--"
you'd a been in this house for a while back.  Why, they've stole
you'd a taken it out in blowing.
you'd like it."
you'll have to take it out in wondering.") And he said if he warn't back
you'll let me borrow a sheet off of the clothesline."
you're after more exact.  It's a word that's made up out'n the Greek
you're always a-wandering off on a side issue.  Why can't you stick to
you're just AS brave, and no braver.  Why don't your juries hang
you've got the full day, and everything smiling in the sun, and the
you've missed him along the road.  I KNOW it's so--something tells me
you--well, let me see--oh, I've got it--you can do Hamlet's soliloquy."
you; generly it's through solid rock.  And it takes them weeks and weeks
you? And you can't get away with that tooth without fetching the whole
you?--oldish man, with a--"
young fellow says:
young flathead that we canoed up to the steamboat.
young woman set down and worked it, and it was pretty skreeky and
young), and a W, with dashes between them, so:  P--B--W"--and he marked
your breakfast on the boat?"
your equipment.
your fault you warn't born a king--so what's the use to worry?  Make the
your friend, and for your unselfish friend, too.  Now listen to me; turn
your head and move right along, and then you won't get into trouble with
your horses and your trusty vassles, and they scoop you up and fling you
your pore broken heart at US f'r?  WE hain't done nothing."
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
yourself, spos'n I was a boy, and was away up there, and the door ain't
