








Exeunt LORDS
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exit BASTARD
Exit BASTARD
Exit BASTARD
Sleeps.
'EDGAR.'
tempest.
Exeunt severally
Exit Cinna.
Exit Edgar.
Exit Edgar.
[Trumpet sounds]
Exit Brutus.
Exit Lucius.
Exit [Fool].
Storm still.
Storm still.
Alarum still.
Music ceases.
[Tearing her hair]
Clock strikes.
Exeunt EXECUTIONERS
Exeunt EXECUTIONERS
Kills himself.
Tucket within.
Tucket within.
[Strikes him.]
Sound a sennet.
[Horns within.]
Knocking within.
Exeunt severally.
Exeunt. Flourish.
Exit HUBERT with PETER
[Pushes him out.]
[Whispers with BLANCH]
Pindarus descends.
Advances to Caesar.
Exeunt [severally].
Flourish and shout.
Stocks brought out.
Exeunt, leading off MELUN
[Exit an Attendant.]
[Exit an attendant.]
[Trips up his heels.
Exeunt all Commoners.
Exeunt all but the BASTARD
Gives him the letter.
Goes into the pulpit.
[Puts up the letter.]
Exeunt all but Antony.
Exeunt all but Brutus.
Exeunt all but Brutus.
[Offers Kent his cap.]
Exeunt [Lear and Kent].
[Tears at his clothes.]
Thy lover, Artemidorus."
Kent here set at liberty.
Pindarus ascends the hill.
Exeunt France and Cordelia.
Opens the letter and reads.
Varro and Claudio lie down.
Brutus goes into the pulpit.
Exeunt Antony and Trebonius.
Gloucester, and Attendants].
[Kent is put in the stocks.]
[Lays his hand on his heart.]
[Lays his hand on his sword.]
Exeunt Citizens with the body.
He comes down from the pulpit.
and Marcus Brutus stab Caesar.
Exeunt [Gloucester and Edmund].
Exit Cassius, with some Citizens.
Followers.
Brutus and Lucilius converse apart.
Enter Edgar.
Enter Edgar.
Enter Fool.
Enter Kent.
Enter Lear.
Alarum. Cry within, "Fly, fly, fly!"
Enter Albany.
Enter Goneril.
Enter Goneril.
Enter Lucius.
Exeunt [Lear, Kent, and Attendants].
[Enter Knight]
Enter Antony.
Enter Portia.
Exeunt [all but Gloucester and Kent].
Regan, Servants.
Enter Gloucester.
Enter Gloucester.
Re-enter Antony.
Enter Antony.
Enter Calpurnia.
Enter a Servant.
Re-enter Lucius.
[Enter a Gentleman.]
and others.
Casca first, then the other Conspirators
Enter Cassius.
Enter Citizens.
Enter Decius.
Enter a Servant.
Enter a Servant.
Enter a Servant.
Exeunt Clitus, Dardanius, and Volumnius.
Exeunt Octavius, Antony, and their Army.
Re-enter Lucius.
Re-enter Lucius.
Re-enter Trebonius.
Enter Cinna.
Enter Pindarus.
Re-enter Lucius.
Enter Lear and Gloucester
Re-enter Servant.
Sennet. Exeunt all but Brutus and Cassius.
Enter Fool [from the hovel].
Enter HUBERT
Enter HUBERT
Enter [Oswald the] Steward.
Enter [Oswald the] Steward.
Enter [Oswald the] Steward.
Enter [Oswald the] Steward.
Enter the Soothsayer.
Trebonius, and Cinna.
Enter ARTHUR
Enter Gloucester with a torch.
Enter a Messenger.
Enter CONSTANCE
Enter PEMBROKE
Enter Varro and Claudio.
Re-enter HUBERT
And I for sorrow sung,
And go the fools among.
Enter Cassius and his Powers.
Enter PANDULPH
Enter a MESSENGER
For wise men are grown foppish;
Re-enter Lucius with Ligarius.
Their manners are so apish.
Enter Edgar [disguised as a madman].
Enter MELUN, wounded
Enter a MESSENGER
Enter a MESSENGER
Enter the BASTARD
Enter the BASTARD
Enter the BASTARD
Enter the Ghost of Caesar.
Lucilius, and the Army.
Re-enter Titinius, with Messala.
Enter Cornwall, Regan, and Attendants.
Enter PANDULPH
KING JOHN in a chair
Metellus Cimber, and Trebonius.
Re-enter Titinius with Messala.
That such a king should play bo-peep
They know not how their wits to wear,
Re-enter Lucius, with the gown.
Re-enter Lucius, with wine and taper.
And her troth plight,
Bid her alight
Enter Antony and others, with Caesar's body.
Exeunt Lear, Gloucester, Kent, and Fool. Storm and
Sennet. Exeunt Caesar and all his Train but Casca.
Enter Cornwall, Regan, Gloucester, Servants.
Enter Gloucester, and Servants with torches.
Enter the BASTARD, attended
Flourish. Exeunt Lear, Burgundy, [Cornwall, Albany,
For the rain it raineth every day.
And follows but for form,
And leave thee in the storm.
And let the wise man fly.
And turn his sleep to wake.
Before the head has any,
Do make their children blind;
Do thou for him stand.
He that keeps nor crust nor crum,
Re-enter Caesar and his Train.
Shall see their children kind.
So beggars marry many.
The fool no knave, perdy.
The other found out there.
To give away thy land,
Weary of all, shall want some.-
What he his heart should make
Will presently appear;
With hey, ho, the wind and the rain-
And aroint thee, witch, aroint thee!
He met the nightmare, and her nine fold;
Lucilius, Titinius, Messala, and others.
Saint Withold footed thrice the 'old;
A fox when one has caught her,
And bawds and whores do churches build:
And keep in-a-door,
And such a daughter,
And thou shalt have more
But I will tarry; the fool will stay,
But fathers that bear bags
But mice and rats, and such small deer,
Come place him here by me-
Come to great confusion.
Enter KING JOHN, ARTHUR, and HUBERT
Enter PEMBROKE, SALISBURY, and BIGOT
Fathers that wear rags
Fortune, that arrant whore,
Have been Tom's food for seven long year.
Have more than thou showest,
He that has and a little tiny wit-
If my cap would buy a halter.
Learn more than thou trowest,
Leave thy drink and thy whore,
Lend less than thou owest,
Must make content with his fortunes fit,
Ne'er turns the key to th' poor.
No heretics burn'd, but wenches' suitors;
No squire in debt nor no poor knight;
Nor cutpurses come not to throngs;
Ride more than thou goest,
Set less than thou throwest;
Shall of a corn cry woe,
Should sure to the slaughter,
So the fool follows after.                       Exit.
Speak less than thou knowest,
Than two tens to a score.
That going shall be us'd with feet.
That it had it head bit off by it young.
That sir which serves and seeks for gain,
The codpiece that will house
The head and he shall louse:
The hedge-sparrow fed the cuckoo so long
The knave turns fool that runs away;
The man that makes his toe
The one in motley here,
The sweet and bitter fool
Then comes the time, who lives to see't,
Then shall the realm of Albion
When brewers mar their malt with water;
When every case in law is right,
When nobles are their tailors' tutors,
When priests are more in word than matter;
When slanders do not live in tongues,
When usurers tell their gold i' th' field,
Will pack when it begins to rain
Enter Publius, Brutus, Ligarius, Metellus, Casca,
Enter the BASTARD and PETER OF POMFRET
Horns within. Enter Lear, [Knights,] and Attendants.
Attendants.
approve,
drunkards
Alarum. Re-enter Messala, with Brutus, young Cato,
ELINOR, the BASTARD, AUSTRIA, and attendants
Enter KING JOHN, KING PHILIP, LEWIS, BLANCH,
Re-enter BIGOT and attendants, who bring in
A Captain under Edmund's command.
A Herald.
Albany and Cornwall; next, Goneril, Regan, Cordelia, with
Caesar goes up to the Senate House, the rest follow.
Cordelia, daughter to Lear.
Curan, a courtier.
Doctor.
Duke of Albany.
Duke of Burgundy.
Duke of Cornwall.
Earl of Gloucester.
Earl of Kent.
Edgar, son of Gloucester.
Edmund, bastard son to Gloucester.
Enter Edmund, with his rapier drawn, Gloucester, Cornwall,
Enter Poet, followed by Lucilius, Titinius, and Lucius.
Enter one bearing a coronet; then Lear; then the Dukes of
Gentlemen.
Goneril, daughter to Lear.
King of France.
Knights attending on Lear, Officers, Messengers, Soldiers,
Lear's Fool.
Lear, King of Britain.
March. Drum. Enter Brutus, Cassius, and their Army;
Old Man, tenant to Gloucester.
Oswald, steward to Goneril.
Regan, daughter to Lear.
Servants to Cornwall.
[Aside]  How now, foolish rheum!
before,
behind,
revenged,
'Dear daughter, I confess that I am old.          [Kneels.]
'Gainst parricides did all their thunders bend;
'Thou unpossessing bastard, dost thou think,
'Tis on such ground, and to such wholesome end,
'Tis politic and safe to let him keep
'Tis they have put him on the old man's death,
'To shut me out! Pour on; I will endure.
'twixt son and father. This villain of mine comes under the
(Although as yet the face of it be cover'd
(As fear not but you shall), show her this ring,
(As this I would; ay, though thou didst produce
(For now I spy a danger), I entreat you
(More harder than the stones whereof 'tis rais'd,
(Since now we will divest us both of rule,
(Which I can call but now) I have heard strange news.
A babe to honour her! If she must teem,
A childlike office.
A credulous father! and a brother noble,
A good man's fortune may grow out at heels.
A little to disquantity your train,
A love that makes breath poor, and speech unable.
A plague sore, an embossed carbuncle
A plague upon your epileptic visage!
A poor, infirm, weak, and despis'd old man.
A saucy roughness, and constrains the garb
A still-soliciting eye, and such a tongue
A third more opulent than your sisters? Speak.
According to my bond; no more nor less.
Advise yourself.
Against my coming in. Thou better know'st
Against the grace and person of my master,
Against the old kind King, or something deeper,
Against their father, fool me not so much
Age is unnecessary. On my knees I beg
Alarum. Retreat. Enter Octavius, Antony, Messala,
All ports I'll bar; the villain shall not scape;
All the stor'd vengeances of heaven fall
All with me's meet that I can fashion fit.
All's not offence that indiscretion finds
Allow not nature more than nature needs,
Allow obedience- if yourselves are old,
Almost t' acknowledge hers.
Aloof from th' entire point. Will you have her?
Although the last, not least; to whose young love
An honest mind and plain- he must speak truth!
An they will take it, so; if not, he's plain.
And I have one thing, of a queasy question,
And Regan with him. Have you nothing said
And added to the gall. O Lear, Lear, Lear!
And am fallen out with my more headier will,
And as a stranger to my heart and me
And be a thwart disnatur'd torment to her.
And bids what will take all.
And bring you where both fire and food is ready.
And by the happy hollow of a tree
And cast you, with the waters that you lose,
And dare upon the warrant of my note
And dotage terms so.
And find I am alone felicitate
And found him pight to do it, with curst speech
And found- dispatch. The noble Duke my master,
And from her derogate body never spring
And from some knowledge and assurance offer
And hasten your return. [Exit Oswald.] No, no, my lord!
And here I take Cordelia by the hand,
And here are to be answer'd. Tell me, my daughters
And hold our lives in mercy.- Oswald, I say!
And in the most exact regard support
And in thy best consideration check
And let not women's weapons, water drops,
And let this tyrannous night take hold upon you,
And make them keep their caves. Since I was man,
And meeting here the other messenger,
And must needs taste his folly.
And my invention thrive, Edmund the base
And not send back my messenger.
And nothing more, may fitly like your Grace,
And on the sixth to turn thy hated back
And prize me at her worth. In my true heart
And put upon him such a deal of man
And she will tell you who your fellow is
And show the heavens more just.
And the King gone to-night? subscrib'd his pow'r?
And the remainder that shall still depend
And thereto add such reasons of your own
And thou art twice her love.
And thou must make a dullard of the world,
And thy dear judgment out! Go, go, my people.
And well are worth the want that you have wanted.
And what they may incense him to, being apt
And with presented nakedness outface
And with this horrible object, from low farms,
And yet not so; since I am sure my love's
And you, our no less loving son of Albany,
And, in conclusion, to oppose the bolt
And, in the fleshment of this dread exploit,
And, like a sister, am most loath to call
Approach, thou beacon to this under globe,
Are in the poorest thing superfluous.
Are lethargied- Ha! waking? 'Tis not so!
Are punish'd with. The King must take it ill
Are they inform'd of this? My breath and blood!
As I am glad I have not, though not to have it
As clears her from all blame.
As full of grief as age; wretched in both.
As honest madam's issue? Why brand they us
As may compact it more. Get you gone,
As much as child e'er lov'd, or father found;
As my great patron thought on in my prayers-
As thou my sometime daughter.
As to th' legitimate. Fine word- 'legitimate'!
As you are old and reverend, you should be wise.
At fortune's alms. You have obedience scanted,
At point a hundred knights; yes, that on every dream,
At suit of his grey beard-
Be as well neighbour'd, pitied, and reliev'd,
Be fear'd of doing harm. Make your own purpose,
Be it lawful I take up what's cast away.
Be this perpetual.- What says our second daughter,
Be to content your lord, who hath receiv'd you
Beat at this gate that let thy folly in  [Strikes his head.]
Been well inform'd of them, and with such cautions
Before me at this instant.
Being the very fellow which of late
Beloved sons, be yours; which to confirm,
Better than you yourself. Therefore I pray you
Beware my follower. Peace, Smulkin! peace, thou fiend!
Beweep this cause again, I'll pluck ye out,
Beyond all manner of so much I love you.
Beyond what can be valued, rich or rare;
Bid them farewell, Cordelia, though unkind.
Bids the wind blow the earth into the sea,
Blanket my loins, elf all my hair in knots,
Bold in the quarrel's right, rous'd to th' encounter,
Bring oil to fire, snow to their colder moods;
Bringing the murderous caitiff to the stake;
Brother, a word! Descend! Brother, I say!
Brought near to beast. My face I'll grime with filth,
But Ajax is their fool.
But even for want of that for which I am richer-
But for all this, thou shalt have as many dolours for thy
But if thy flight lay toward the raging sea,
But kept a reservation to be followed
But let his disposition have that scope
But misery. I know 'tis from Cordelia,
But not one follower.
But now her price is fall'n. Sir, there she stands.
But other of your insolent retinue
But she knows what she does.
But that I told him the revenging gods
But when he saw my best alarum'd spirits,
But where the greater malady is fix'd,
But yet I call you servile ministers,
But yet thou art my flesh, my blood, my daughter;
But yet, alas, stood I within his grace,
But, true it is, from France there comes a power
By all the operation of the orbs
By her that else will take the thing she begs
By his authority I will proclaim it
By no means what?
By some discretion that discerns your state
By what yourself, too, late have spoke and done,
By you to be sustain'd, shall our abode
By your allowance; which if you should, the fault
Call Burgundy! Cornwall and Albany,
Call not your stocks for me. I serve the King;
Can buy this unpriz'd precious maid of me.
Cannot be well bestow'd.
Catch in their fury and make nothing of;
Come forth.
Come not between the dragon and his wrath.
Come on, my boy. How dost, my boy? Art cold?
Come on, young master!
Come, my good lord, away.
Come, noble Burgundy.
Coming from us.
Commanded me to follow and attend
Commend a dear thing to you. There is division
Commit a thing so monstrous to dismantle
Conferring them on younger strengths while we
Confin'd to exhibition? All this done
Cordelia leaves you. I know you what you are;
Cornwall.
Couldst thou save nothing? Didst thou give 'em all?
Crack Nature's moulds, all germains spill at once,
Create her child of spleen, that it may live
Dearer than eyesight, space, and liberty;
Degenerate bastard, I'll not trouble thee;
Deliver'd letters, spite of intermission,
Denied me to come in) return, and force
Deserv'd much less advancement.
Dismissing half your train, come then to me.
Display'd so saucily against your Highness-
Do comfort, and not burn. 'Tis not in thee
Do hourly carp and quarrel, breaking forth
Do more than this in sport.- Father, father!-
Do sorely ruffle. For many miles about
Do you but mark how this becomes the house:
Does not attend my taking. Whiles I may scape,
Doth Lear walk thus? speak thus? Where are his eyes?
Doth from my senses take all feeling else
Dow'r'd with our curse, and stranger'd with our oath,
Draw, seem to defend yourself; now quit you well.-
Draw, you rogue, or I'll so carbonado your shanks! Draw, you
Drew on me here again.
Dry up in her the organs of increase;
Duchess of Burgundy.
Dwells in the fickle grace of her he follows.
Each buzz, each fancy, each complaint, dislike,
Edgar-
Edmund, I hear that you have shown your father
Edmund?
Effects of courtesy, dues of gratitude.
Either his notion weakens, his discernings
Either in snuffs and packings of the Dukes,
Election makes not up on such conditions.
Enforce their charity. 'Poor Turlygod! poor Tom!'
Ere I was risen from the place that show'd
Escap'd the hunt. No port is free, no place
Expose thyself to feel what wretches feel,
Fall'n into taint; which to believe of her
False of heart, light of ear, bloody of hand; hog in sloth, fox
Fetch me a better answer.
Fiery? What quality? Why, Gloucester, Gloucester,
Fiery? the fiery Duke? Tell the hot Duke that-
Find out their enemies now. Tremble, thou wretch,
Five days we do allot thee for provision
Fly, brother.- Torches, torches!- So farewell.
For confirmation that I am much more
For following her affairs. Put in his legs.-
For him attempting who was self-subdu'd;
For instant remedy. Be then desir'd
For lifting food to't? But I will punish home!
For nature to endure.
For pilf'rings and most common trespasses
For that I am some twelve or fourteen moonshines
For the sound man.- Death on my state! Wherefore
For there was never yet fair woman but she made mouths in a
For those that mingle reason with your passion
For which I raz'd my likeness. Now, banish'd Kent,
For your fit welcome. Give ear, sir, to my sister;
For, by the sacred radiance of the sun,
Fortune, good night; smile once more, turn thy wheel.
Freedom lives hence, and banishment is here.
From Goneril his mistress salutations;
From hence attend dispatch. Our good old friend,
From seasons such as these? O, I have ta'en
From the fix'd place; drew from my heart all love
From this enormous state, seeking to give
From those that she calls servants, or from mine?
From what you rightly are.
From whom we do exist and cease to be;
Full suddenly he fled.
Gallow the very wanderers of the dark
Give but that portion which yourself propos'd,
Give me the map there. Know we have divided
Give you good morrow!
Go tell the Duke and 's wife I'ld speak with them-
Go to th' creating a whole tribe of fops
Gods, gods! 'tis strange that from their cold'st neglect
Goose, an I had you upon Sarum Plain,
Got 'tween asleep and wake? Well then,
Gracious my lord, hard by here is a hovel;
Great rivals in our youngest daughter's love,
Hadst not been born than not t' have pleas'd me better.
Half my love with him, half my care and duty.
Hang fated o'er men's faults light on thy daughters!
Harbour more craft and more corrupter ends
Hark, the Duke's trumpets! I know not why he comes.
Hast practis'd on man's life. Close pent-up guilts,
Hath lost me in your liking.
Hath rivall'd for our daughter. What in the least
Have a command to tend you?
Have no such daughter, nor shall ever see
Have you not spoken 'gainst the Duke of Cornwall?
Having more man than wit about me, drew.
He dies that strikes again. What is the matter?
He flashes into one gross crime or other
He is attended with a desperate train,
He is return'd.
He may enguard his dotage with their pow'rs
He rais'd the house with loud and coward cries.
He that conceals him, death.
He whom my father nam'd? Your Edgar?
He'll shape his old course in a country new.
He's coming hither; now, i' th' night, i' th' haste,
Hear, Nature, hear! dear goddess, hear!
Heaven and earth! Edmund, seek him out; wind me into him, I pray
Her father's heart from her! Call France! Who stirs?
Here I disclaim all my paternal care,
Here do you keep a hundred knights and squires;
His fault is much, and the good King his master
His heart-struck injuries.
His knights grow riotous, and himself upbraids us
His wits begin t' unsettle.
Hold amity? 'Tis hard; almost impossible.
Hold thee from this for ever. The barbarous Scythian,
Holla the other.
How chance the King comes with so small a number?
How in my strength you please. For you, Edmund,
How now, Oswald?
How now? Are the horses ready?
How now? Where's that mongrel?
How shall your houseless heads and unfed sides,
How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is
How ugly didst thou in Cordelia show!
How unremovable and fix'd he is
Hum! Conspiracy? 'Sleep till I wak'd him, you should enjoy half
Hysterica passio! Down, thou climbing sorrow!
I am a gentleman of blood and breeding,
I am cold myself. Where is this straw, my fellow?
I am now from home, and out of that provision
I and my hundred knights.
I can be patient, I can stay with Regan,
I can scarce speak to thee. Thou'lt not believe
I crave no more than hath your Highness offer'd,
I deeply, dice dearly; and in woman out-paramour'd the Turk.
I desir'd their leave that I might pity him, they took from me
I did commend your Highness' letters to them,
I do invest you jointly in my power,
I do not bid the Thunder-bearer shoot
I find she names my very deed of love;
I had daughters.
I had thought, by making this well known unto you,
I have cast off for ever; thou shalt, I warrant thee.
I have full cause of weeping, but this heart
I have seen better faces in my time
I have this present evening from my sister
I have to think so. If thou shouldst not be glad,
I look'd not for you yet, nor am provided
I lov'd her most, and thought to set my rest
I never gave you kingdom, call'd you children,
I shall not be his wife.
I tax not you, you elements, with unkindness.
I tell you all her wealth. [To France] For you, great King,
I threaten'd to discover him. He replied,
I will go seek the King.
I will have such revenges on you both
I will not speak with him. Say I am sick.
I will not trouble thee, my child; farewell.
I will preserve myself; and am bethought
I will say nothing.
I will send far and near, that all the kingdom
I would breed from hence occasions, and I shall,
I would divorce me from thy mother's tomb,
I would not from your love make such a stray
I would prefer him to a better place!
I would you would make use of that good wisdom
I'ld drive ye cackling home to Camelot.
I'ld speak with the Duke of Cornwall and his wife.
I'll do't before I speak- that you make known
I'll not be there.
I'll tell thee thou dost evil.
If I would stand against thee, would the reposal
If aught within that little seeming substance,
If for I want that glib and oily art
If he distaste it, let him to our sister,
If it be you that stirs these daughters' hearts
If on my credit you dare build so far
If only to go warm were gorgeous,
If she sustain him and his hundred knights,
If they not thought the profits of my death
If thou canst serve where thou dost stand condemn'd,
If you come slack of former services,
If you do love old men, if your sweet sway
If, till the expiration of your month,
In cunning I must draw my sword upon you.
In his own course.
In my corrupted blood. But I'll not chide thee.
In rank and not-to-be-endured riots. Sir,
In some of our best ports and are at point
In such a night as this! O Regan, Goneril!
In three our kingdom; and 'tis our fast intent
In your dear Highness' love.
Infirmity doth still neglect all office
Inform her full of my particular fear,
Ingratitude, thou marble-hearted fiend,
Instantly know, and of that letter too.
Intelligence is given where you are hid.
Intelligent of our state. What hath been seen,
Interest of territory, cares of state),
Into her scornful eyes! Infect her beauty,
Into her womb convey sterility;
Into this scattered kingdom, who already,
Invades us to the skin. So 'tis to thee;
Is it not as this mouth should tear this hand
Is it not well? What should you need of more?
Is it the fashion that discarded fathers
Is it two days ago since I beat thee and tripp'd up thy heels
Is it your will? Speak, sir!- Prepare my horses.
Is practice only. Give me my servant forth.
Is queen of us, of ours, and our fair France.
Is such as basest and contemn'dest wretches
Is your lady come?
It is no vicious blot, murther, or foulness,
It pleas'd the King his master very late
Judicious punishment! 'Twas this flesh begot
Keep me in temper; I would not be mad!
Keep their fur dry, unbonneted he runs,
Kill thy physician, and the fee bestow
Knowing naught (like dogs) but following.
Knowledge, and reason, I should be false persuaded
Lady the brach may stand by th' fire and stink.
Lag of a brother? Why bastard? wherefore base?
Lay comforts to your bosom, and bestow
Legitimate Edgar, I must have your land.
Lest it may mar your fortunes.
Let it be so. Yet have I left a daughter,
Let it stamp wrinkles in her brow of youth,
Let me still take away the harms I fear,
Let me, if not by birth, have lands by wit;
Let not the creaking of shoes nor the rustling of silks betray
Let pride, which she calls plainness, marry her.
Let shame come when it will, I do not call it.
Like rats, oft bite the holy cords atwain
Long in our court have made their amorous sojourn,
Look'd black upon me; struck me with her tongue,
Losses their remedies'- All weary and o'erwatch'd,
Lov'd as my father, as my master follow'd,
Love not such nights as these. The wrathful skies
Loyal and natural boy, I'll work the means
Mak'st thou this shame thy pastime?
Make it more like a tavern or a brothel
Make it your cause! Send down, and take my part!
Make servants of their betters.
Make thy words faith'd? No. What I should deny
Make with you by due turns. Only we still retain
Man's life is cheap as beast's. Thou art a lady:
May be prevented now. The princes, France and Burgundy,
May carry through itself to that full issue
May have due note of him, and of my land,
Men so disorder'd, so debosh'd, and bold
Mend when thou canst; be better at thy leisure;
Might in their working do you that offence
Modo he's call'd, and Mahu.
More composition and fierce quality
More hideous when thou show'st thee in a child
More richer than my tongue.
More sinn'd against than sinning.
Most best, most dearest, should in this trice of time
Most choice, forsaken; and most lov'd, despis'd!
Most serpent-like, upon the very heart.
Mumbling of wicked charms, conjuring the moon
Must be a faith that reason without miracle
Must be content to think you old, and so-
Must be of such unnatural degree
Must be their schoolmasters. Shut up your doors.
Must call discreet proceeding.
My Regan counsels well. Come out o' th' storm.        [Exeunt.]
My duty kneeling, came there a reeking post,
My father hath set guard to take my brother;
My father watches. O sir, fly this place!
My heart into my mouth. I love your Majesty
My love should kindle to inflam'd respect.
My mind as generous, and my shape as true,
My practices ride easy! I see the business.
My services are bound. Wherefore should I
My train are men of choice and rarest parts,
My unprovided body, lanch'd mine arm;
My very character), I'ld turn it all
My worthy arch and patron, comes to-night.
Myself an enemy to all other joys
Nature in you stands on the very verge
Natures of such deep trust we shall much need;
Nay, get thee in. I'll pray, and then I'll sleep.
Necessity's sharp pinch! Return with her?
No less in space, validity, and pleasure
No less than life, with grace, health, beauty, honour;
No more of that.
No unchaste action or dishonoured step,
No, I will weep no more. In such a night
No, I'll not weep.
No, but not yet! May be he is not well.
No, rather I abjure all roofs, and choose
Nor are those empty-hearted whose low sound
Nor rain, wind, thunder, fire are my daughters.
Nor tell tales of thee to high-judging Jove.
Nor will you tender less.
Not all the dukes in wat'rish Burgundy
Not fear still to be taken. I know his heart.
Not in this land shall he remain uncaught;
Not to be overrul'd. Idle old man,
Now, gods, stand up for bastards!
Now, presently. Bid them come forth and hear me,
O Regan, wilt thou take her by the hand?
O, that way madness lies; let me shun that!
O, these eclipses do portend these divisions! Fa, sol, la, mi.
O, you, sir, you! Come you hither, sir. Who am I, sir?
Obey you, love you, and most honour you.
Occasions, noble Gloucester, of some poise,
Of Bedlam beggars, who, with roaring voices,
Of any trust, virtue, or worth in thee
Of differences, which I best thought it fit
Of her confine. You should be rul'd, and led
Of how unnatural and bemadding sorrow
Of my more fierce endeavour. [Stabs his arm.] I have seen
Of my obscured course- and [reads] 'shall find time
Of other your new pranks. I do beseech you
Of the selfsame metal that my sister is,
Of this remove.
Of what hath mov'd you.
Old fools are babes again, and must be us'd
On every trifle. When he returns from hunting,
On flickering Phoebus' front-
On her ingrateful top! Strike her young bones,
On her kind nursery.- Hence and avoid my sight!-
On thine allegiance, hear me!
On things would hurt me more. But I'll go in.
On whose employment I was sent to you.
Only she comes too short, that I profess
Or all of it, with our displeasure piec'd,
Or at their chamber door I'll beat the drum
Or cease your quest of love?
Or ere I'll weep. O fool, I shall go mad!
Or he that makes his generation messes
Or rather a disease that's in my flesh,
Or swell the curled waters 'bove the main,
Or the hard rein which both of them have borne
Or whether gasted by the noise I made,
Or, whilst I can vent clamour from my throat,
Our daughters' several dowers, that future strife
Our dearest Regan, wife to Cornwall? Speak.
Our eldest-born, speak first.
Our father he hath writ, so hath our sister,
Our father's love is to the bastard Edmund
Our potency made good, take thy reward.
Our sister speaks of. Come, bring away the stocks!
Our youngest born, I could as well be brought
Out, varlet, from my sight!
Persuade me rather to be slave and sumpter
Peruse this letter. Nothing almost sees miracles
Pierce every sense about thee!- Old fond eyes,
Pins, wooden pricks, nails, sprigs of rosemary;
Poor fool and knave, I have one part in my heart
Poor naked wretches, wheresoe'er you are,
Poor pelting villages, sheepcotes, and mills,
Pray you be careful.                                  Exit.
Preeminence, and all the large effects
Prithee, nuncle, keep a schoolmaster that can teach thy fool to
Propinquity and property of blood,
Quite from his nature. He cannot flatter, he!
Re-enter EXECUTIONERS, With cord, irons, etc.
Remain this ample third of our fair kingdom,
Remember to have heard. Man's nature cannot carry
Remember what I have said.
Renege, affirm, and turn their halcyon beaks
Repose you there, whilst I to this hard house
Resolve me with all modest haste which way
Return those duties back as are right fit,
Return you to my sister.
Revenue, execution of the rest,
Reverbs no hollowness.
Rive your concealing continents, and cry
Saddle my horses! Call my train together!
Save what beats there. Filial ingratitude!
Say you have wrong'd her, sir.
Seeing how loathly opposite I stood
Sepulchring an adultress. [To Kent] O, are you free?
Shall break into a hundred thousand flaws
Shall find thee full of labours.
Shall not be a maid long, unless things be cut shorter
Shall top th' legitimate. I grow; I prosper.
Sharp-tooth'd unkindness, like a vulture, here!
She hath abated me of half my train;
She have restrain'd the riots of your followers,
She is herself a dowry.
She'll flay thy wolvish visage. Thou shalt find
She's there, and she is yours.
Should be sit here? This act persuades me
Should have him thus restrain'd.
Should have thus little mercy on their flesh?
Should make thee worth them. Blasts and fogs upon thee!
Should many people, under two commands,
Should never plant in me.
Shows like a riotous inn. Epicurism and lust
Since that respects of fortune are his love,
Since thou hast sought to make us break our vow-
Singe my white head! And thou, all-shaking thunder,
Smile you my speeches, as I were a fool?
So be my grave my peace as here I give
So farewell to you both.
So many folds of favour. Sure her offence
So may it come, thy master, whom thou lov'st,
So much commend itself, you shall be ours.
So old and white as this! O! O! 'tis foul!
So out went the candle, and we were left darkling.
Some blood drawn on me would beget opinion
Some friendship will it lend you 'gainst the tempest.
Some other time for that.- Beloved Regan,
Some that will thank you, making just report
Some time I shall sleep out, the rest I'll whistle.
Sometime with lunatic bans, sometime with prayers,
Speak 'gainst so great a number? How in one house
Spoke with how manifold and strong a bond
Stain my man's cheeks! No, you unnatural hags!
Stand in the plague of custom, and permit
Stands in some rank of praise. [To Goneril] I'll go with thee.
Stay here.                                            Exit.
Stew'd in his haste, half breathless, panting forth
Stocking his messenger.
Stop, stop! No help?
Strike flat the thick rotundity o' th' world,
Strike in their numb'd and mortified bare arms
Strike!                                        [Beats him.]
Strive to be interest; what can you say to draw
Strives in his little world of man to outscorn
Striving to better, oft we mar what's well.
Such groans of roaring wind and rain, I never
Such sheets of fire, such bursts of horrid thunder,
Sure I shall never marry like my sisters,
Suspend thy purpose, if thou didst intend
T' avert your liking a more worthier way
T' obey in all your daughters' hard commands.
Take her, or leave her?
Take vantage, heavy eyes, not to behold
Th' affliction nor the fear.
Th' untented woundings of a father's curse
Than I and such a knave.
Than a grac'd palace. The shame itself doth speak
Than doth, within a dull, stale, tired bed,
Than my out-wall, open this purse and take
Than on a wretch whom nature is asham'd
Than prais'd for harmful mildness.
Than she to scant her duty.
Than stands on any shoulder that I see
Than that conferr'd on Goneril.- Now, our joy,
Than the sea-monster!
Than twenty silly-ducking observants
That I may speak. I'll write straight to my sister
That I'll resume the shape which thou dost think
That all particulars of duty know
That all the world shall- I will do such things-
That art incestuous. Caitiff, in pieces shake
That bide the pelting of this pitiless storm,
That by thy comfortable beams I may
That can make vile things precious. Come, your hovel.
That can my speech defuse, my good intent
That dotage gives it.
That ever penury, in contempt of man,
That face of hers again. Therefore be gone
That good effects may spring from words of love.
That guard and most unusual vigilance
That hast within thee undivulged crimes
That hath depriv'd me of your grace and favour;
That he hath given away! Now, by my life,
That he suspects none; on whose foolish honesty
That he which find, him shall deserve our thanks,
That he, so slightly valued in his messenger,
That in the natures of their lords rebel,
That it doth hate what gets it.
That it intends to do? My Lord of Burgundy,
That justly think'st and hast most rightly said!
That keep this dreadful pudder o'er our heads,
That lord whose hand must take my plight shall carry
That makes ingrateful man!
That monsters it, or your fore-vouch'd affection
That sets us all at odds. I'll not endure it.
That she that even but now was your best object,
That she would soon be here.
That still would manage those authorities
That stretch their duties nicely.
That tend upon my father?
That these hot tears, which break from me perforce,
That things might change or cease; tears his white hair,
That this our court, infected with their manners,
That this remotion of the Duke and her
That thou hast power to shake my manhood thus;
That thou mayst shake the superflux to them
That to our sister you do make return;
That troop with majesty. Ourself, by monthly course,
That under covert and convenient seeming
That way, I'll this), he that first lights on him
That we our largest bounty may extend
That which my father loses- no less than all.
That will with two pernicious daughters join
That worthied him, got praises of the King
That yet you do not know. Fie on this storm!
That you must lose a husband.
That you protect this course, and put it on
That you'll vouchsafe me raiment, bed, and food.'
That's something yet! Edgar I nothing am.             Exit.
That's sorry yet for thee.
That, if they come to sojourn at my house,
That, when we have found the King (in which your pain
The Duke must grant me that. Besides, his picture
The King hath cause to plain.
The King is coming.
The argument of your praise, balm of your age,
The art of our necessities is strange,
The body's delicate. The tempest in my mind
The child was bound to th' father- sir, in fine,
The country gives me proof and precedent
The curiosity of nations to deprive me,
The images of revolt and flying off!
The injuries that they themselves procure
The leisure of their answer, gave me cold looks,
The lesser is scarce felt. Thou'dst shun a bear;
The lion and the belly-pinched wolf
The moment is thy death. Away! By Jupiter,
The mysteries of Hecate and the night;
The name, and all th' additions to a king. The sway,
The night before there was no purpose in them
The offices of nature, bond of childhood,
The region of my heart! Be Kent unmannerly
The shame which here it suffers.
The terrors of the earth! You think I'll weep.
The to-and-fro-conflicting wind and rain.
The true blank of thine eye.
The tyranny of the open night 's too rough
The vines of France and milk of Burgundy
The winds and persecutions of the sky.
The worships of their name.- O most small fault,
The younger rises when the old doth fall.             Exit.
Thee and thy virtues here I seize upon.
Thee o'er to harshness. Her eyes are fierce; but thine
Their scanted courtesy.
There shall he sit till noon.
There's mine! beg another of thy daughters.
There's scarce a bush.
There, take my coxcomb! Why, this fellow hath banish'd two on's
These dispositions that of late transform you
These dreadful summoners grace. I am a man
These kind of knaves I know which in this plainness
They have travell'd all the night? Mere fetches-
They love you all? Haply, when I shall wed,
They summon'd up their meiny, straight took horse,
They would not, could not do't. 'Tis worse than murther
Think'st thou that duty shall have dread to speak
This coronet part betwixt you.
This hideous rashness. Answer my life my judgment,
This hurt you see, striving to apprehend him.
This milky gentleness and course of yours,
This night, wherein the cub-drawn bear would couch,
This office to you.
This prophecy Merlin shall make, for I live before his time.
This seems a fair deserving, and must draw me
This shall not be revok'd.
This shameful lodging.
This tempest will not give me leave to ponder
This weaves itself perforce into my business.
Those pelican daughters.
Thou didst not know on't.- Who comes here? O heavens!
Thou losest here, a better where to find.
Thou mightst deserve or they impose this usage,
Thou out of heaven's benediction com'st
Thou perjur'd, and thou simular man of virtue
Thou swear'st thy gods in vain.
Thou'dst meet the bear i' th' mouth. When the mind's free,
Though I condemn it not, yet, under pardon,
Though their injunction be to bar my doors
Thron'd and set high?) servants, who seem no less,
Thus Kent, O princes, bids you all adieu;
Thy banish'd trunk be found in our dominions,
Thy dow'rless daughter, King, thrown to my chance,
Thy element's below! Where is this daughter?
Thy fifty yet doth double five-and-twenty,
Thy half o' th' kingdom hast thou not forgot,
Thy safety being the motive.
Thy sister's naught. O Regan, she hath tied
Thy tender-hefted nature shall not give
Thy youngest daughter does not love thee least,
Till it cry sleep to death.
Till you have drench'd our steeples, drown'd the cocks!
To answer from our home. The several messengers
To bandy hasty words, to scant my sizes,
To be a comrade with the wolf and owl-
To be such men as may besort your age,
To bear it tamely; touch me with noble anger,
To bring but five-and-twenty. To no more
To come between our sentence and our power,-
To do upon respect such violent outrage.
To fall and blast her pride!
To follow in a house where twice so many
To gorge his appetite, shall to my bosom
To grudge my pleasures, to cut off my train,
To have a thankless child! Away, away!                Exit.
To have found a safe redress, but now grow fearful,
To have her gentleman abus'd, assaulted,
To have his ear abus'd, wisdom bids fear.
To have th' expense and waste of his revenues.
To his unnatural purpose, in fell motion
To hold my very course. Prepare for dinner.
To keep base life afoot. Return with her?
To knee his throne, and, squire-like, pension beg
To laughter and contempt, that she may feel
To love my father all.
To make thee capable.
To make thee seek it.'
To make this creature fruitful.
To make your speed to Dover, you shall find
To match you where I hate; therefore beseech you
To set thee here?
To shake all cares and business from our age,
To shield thee from diseases of the world,
To show their open banner. Now to you:
To speak and purpose not, since what I well intend,
To stand 's auspicious mistress.
To strike at me, upon his misconstruction;
To such a lowness but his unkind daughters.
To suffer with the body. I'll forbear;
To take the basest and most poorest shape
To take the indispos'd and sickly fit
To temper clay. Yea, is it come to this?
To the great love I bear you -
To the warm sun!
To this detested groom.                 [Points at Oswald.]
To thy suggestion, plot, and damned practice;
To understand my purposes aright.
To wage against the enmity o' th' air,
To wage against thine enemies; nor fear to lose it,
To your professed bosoms I commit him;
Too little care of this! Take physic, pomp;
Tripp'd me behind; being down, insulted, rail'd
Truly, however else.
Turn all her mother's pains and benefits
Unburthen'd crawl toward death. Our son of Cornwall,
Under th' allowance of your great aspect,
Unfriended, new adopted to our hate,
Unwhipp'd of justice. Hide thee, thou bloody hand;
Upon his party 'gainst the Duke of Albany?
Upon our kingdom. If, on the tenth day following,
Upon the foul disease. Revoke thy gift,
Upon the gad? Edmund, how now? What news?
Vaunt-couriers to oak-cleaving thunderbolts,
We could control them. If you will come to me
We first address toward you, who with this king
We have this hour a constant will to publish
We make thee lady. To thine and Albany's issue
We'll no more meet, no more see one another.
We'll teach you-
Well may you prosper!
Well, my legitimate, if this letter speed,
Were very pregnant and potential spurs
What grows of it, no matter. Advise your fellows so.
What he hath utter'd I have writ my sister.
What is the cause of thunder?
What is your study?
What it contains. If you shall see Cordelia
What need you five-and-twenty, ten, or five,
What say you to the lady? Love's not love
What they are yet, I know not; but they shall be
What, have you writ that letter to my sister?
When I have show'd th' unfitness-
When Lear is mad. What wouldst thou do, old man?
When a wise man gives thee better counsel, give me mine again. I
When he, conjunct, and flattering his displeasure,
When it is mingled with regards that stands
When majesty falls to folly. Reverse thy doom;
When my dimensions are as well compact,
When nature, being oppress'd, commands the mind
When others are more wicked; not being the worst
When power to flattery bows? To plainness honour's bound
When she shall hear this of thee, with her nails
When she was dear to us, we did hold her so;
When the rash mood is on.
Where is my Lord of Gloucester?
Where nature doth with merit challenge. Goneril,
Where's my knave? my fool? Go you and call my fool hither.
Wherein I thee endow'd.
Wherein we must have use of your advice.
Whereof I know you are fraught, and put away
Whereof, perchance, these are but furnishings-
Whereto our health is bound. We are not ourselves
Which I must act. Briefness and fortune, work!
Which I must needs call mine. Thou art a boil,
Which are to France the spies and speculations
Which are too intrinse t' unloose; smooth every passion
Which can pursue th' offender. How dost, my lord?
Which craves the instant use.
Which else were shame, that then necessity
Which even but now, demanding after you,
Which know themselves, and you.
Which nor our nature nor our place can bear,-
Which of you shall we say doth love us most?
Which often leaves the history unspoke
Which presently they read; on whose contents,
Which scarcely keeps thee warm. But, for true need-
Which shall be needful for your entertainment.
Which the impetuous blasts, with eyeless rage,
Which the most precious square of sense possesses,
Which we durst never yet- and with strain'd pride
Which, in the tender of a wholesome weal,
Which, like an engine, wrench'd my frame of nature
Who I am sure is kind and comfortable.
Who cover faults, at last shame them derides.
Who hath most fortunately been inform'd
Who have (as who have not, that their great stars
Who is it that can tell me who I am?
Who wears no honesty. Such smiling rogues as these,
Who, having been prais'd for bluntness, doth affect
Who, in the lusty stealth of nature, take
Whom I have ever honour'd as my king,
Whoop, Jug, I love thee!
Whose disposition, all the world well knows,
Whose influence, like the wreath of radiant fire
Whose mind and mine I know in that are one,
Whose nature is so far from doing harms
Whose virtue and obedience doth this instant
Whose welcome I perceiv'd had poison'd mine-
Why have my sisters husbands, if they say
Why, nature needs not what thou gorgeous wear'st
Why, the hot-blooded France, that dowerless took
Will I give place or notice.
Will check him for't. Your purpos'd low correction
Will not be rubb'd nor stopp'd. I'll entreat for thee.
Will you require in present dower with her,
Will you yet hold? How came my man i' th' stocks?
Wise in our negligence, have secret feet
With base? with baseness? bastardy? base, base?
With cadent tears fret channels in her cheeks,
With checks as flatteries, when they are seen abus'd.
With every gale and vary of their masters,
With five-and-twenty, Regan? Said you so?
With his prepared sword he charges home
With how deprav'd a quality- O Regan!
With mutual cunning) 'twixt Albany and Cornwall;
With my two daughters' dowers digest this third;
With plenteous rivers and wide-skirted meads,
With reservation of an hundred knights,
With shadowy forests and with champains rich'd,
With such a number. What, must I come to you
Within a fortnight?
Without our grace, our love, our benison.
Would fail her obligation. If, sir, perchance
Would he deny his letter? I never got him.
Would not scape censure, nor the redresses sleep,
Would with his daughter speak, commands her service.
Yea, or so many, sith that both charge and danger
Yet have I left a daughter.
Yet have I ventur'd to come seek you out
Yield! Come before my father. Light, ho, here!
You and your fellows. I'd have it come to question.
You are much more at task for want of wisdom
You beastly knave, know you no reverence?
You cataracts and hurricanoes, spout
You fen-suck'd fogs, drawn by the pow'rful sun,
You have begot me, bred me, lov'd me; I
You have now the good advantage of the night.
You heavens, give me that patience, patience I need!
You know the fiery quality of the Duke,
You less know how to value her desert
You owe me no subscription. Then let fall
You see me here, you gods, a poor old man,
You shall do small respect, show too bold malice
You shall do well; the fault of it I'll answer.
You should not use me so.
You stubborn ancient knave, you reverent braggart,
You sulph'rous and thought-executing fires,
You taking airs, with lameness!
You we first seize on.
You will return and sojourn with my sister,
You, you, sirrah, where's my daughter?
Your Graces are right welcome.
Your faults as they are nam'd. Use well our father.
Your high-engender'd battles 'gainst a head
Your horrible pleasure. Here I stand your slave,
Your loop'd and window'd raggedness, defend you
Your needful counsel to our business,
Your old kind father, whose frank heart gave all!
Your son and daughter found this trespass worth
Your son and daughter.
[Exit a Knight.] Where's my fool, ho? I think the world's
[Points at Lear] That's a sheal'd peascod.
[Sings]    Fools had ne'er less grace in a year,
[Sings]    Then they for sudden joy did weep,
[To Cordelia] The gods to their dear shelter take thee, maid,
[To Goneril] Art not asham'd to look upon this beard?-
[To Goneril] Yes, forsooth, I will hold my tongue. So your face
[To Regan and Goneril] And your large speeches may your deeds
[To the Fool] In, boy; go first.- You houseless poverty-
[To the Fool] You, sir, more knave than fool, after your master!
a stick and cried 'Down, wantons, down!' 'Twas her brother that,
accent was a plain knave, which, for my part, I will not be,
an Attendant.] How now? What art thou?
an essay or taste of my virtue.
and a worse matter than that. I have received a letter this
and brain to breed it in? When came this to you? Who brought it?
and fond bondage in the oppression of aged tyranny, who sways,
and hurts the poor creature of earth.
and leave his horns without a case.
and pat! he comes, like the catastrophe of the old comedy. My
and purpose of unkindness. I will look further into't. But
and sometimes I am whipp'd for holding my peace. I had rather be
and there again- and there!
and walks till the first cock. He gives the web and the pin,
and your daughter.
animal as thou art. Off, off, you lendings! Come, unbutton
any kind o' thing than a fool! And yet I would not be thee,
appertains to us both. I think our father will hence to-night.
are no moe than seven is a pretty reason.
are too much o' late i' th' frown.
art poor enough. What wouldst thou?
as well in the general dependants as in the Duke himself also
as you were wont. There's a great abatement of kindness appears
asleep.
away! Go to! Have you wisdom? So.
away! If you will measure your lubber's length again, tarry; but
back, six shirts to his body, horse to ride, and weapons to
beard,' you wagtail?
before the King? [Draws his sword.] Draw, you rogue! for, though
beggar, coward, pander, and the son and heir of a mongrel bitch;
better testimony of his intent, you should run a certain course;
bids me, though you say nothing. Mum, mum!
bitter to the best of our times; keeps our fortunes from us
blamed as mine own jealous curiosity than as a very pretence
blessing! Here's a night pities nether wise men nor fools.
blows the cold wind. Humh! go to thy cold bed, and warm thee.
blush'd to acknowledge him that now I am braz'd to't.
bog and quagmire; that hath laid knives under his pillow and
born with.
bridges, to course his own shadow for a traitor. Bless thy five
brutish! Go, sirrah, seek him. I'll apprehend him. Abominable
but can smell him that's stinking. Let go thy hold when a great
but in respect of that, I would fain think it were not.
by th' legs. When a man's over-lusty at legs, then he wears
canst not smile as the wind sits, thou'lt catch cold shortly.
canst tell why one's nose stands i' th' middle on's face?
carefully. And the noble and true-hearted Kent banish'd! his
choice of either's moiety.
comes a walking fire.
comes to. He will not believe a fool.
compounded with my mother under the Dragon's Tail, and my
contents.
converse with him that is wise and says little, to fear
countries, discord; in palaces, treason; and the bond crack'd
crowns.
cue is villainous melancholy, with a sigh like Tom o' Bedlam.
daughter I would speak with her. [Exit Knight.] Go you, call
daughter no further with anything you know than comes from her
daughters as thou canst tell in a year.
daughters, and did the third a blessing against his will. If
dearth, dissolutions of ancient amities; divisions in state,
demand out of the letter. If your diligence be not speedy, I
did the act of darkness with her; swore as many oaths as I spake
die for't, as no less is threat'ned me, the King my old master
diffidences, banishment of friends, dissipation of cohorts,
dinner, I will not part from thee yet. Dinner, ho, dinner!
displeasure neither to speak of him, entreat for him, nor any
dote on her for anything. I have years on my back forty-eight.
draw!
drunkards, liars, and adulterers by an enforc'd obedience of
entreaty forbear his presence until some little time hath
equalities are so weigh'd that curiosity in neither can make
evening.
fain call master.
fiend. Still through the hawthorn blows the cold wind; says
fool and a sweet fool?
fool.
for him that he hath writ this to feel my affection to your
found it thrown in at the casement of my closet.
friend.
friendship falls off, brothers divide. In cities, mutinies; in
glass-gazing, superserviceable, finical rogue;
glass.
go arm'd.
good service, and art nothing but the composition of a knave,
guilty of our disasters the sun, the moon, and the stars; as if
had a husband for her bed. Do you smell a fault?
halters in his pew, set ratsbane by his porridge, made him proud
hath much pined away.
have made of it hath not been little. He always lov'd our
have seen and heard; but faintly, nothing like the image and
he put it by with the back of his hand, thus, and then the
head, dogs and bears by th' neck, monkeys by th' loins, and men
hear us confer of this and by an auricular assurance have your
heart- a small spark, all the rest on's body cold. Look, here
her frowning. Now thou art an O without a figure. I am better
here with him this night.
here.
him trot by.
him. Pray you let's hit together. If our father carry authority
his goatish disposition to the charge of a star! My father
his mother fair, there was good sport at his making, and the
his revenue.' My son Edgar! Had he a hand to write this? a heart
hither my fool.
home; there's part of a power already footed; we must incline to
honour, and to no other pretence of danger.
horror of it. Pray you, away!
i' th' middle. Here comes one o' the parings.
if there be any good meaning toward you. I have told you what I
imperfections of long-ingraffed condition, but therewithal
in part I understand them, are to blame.
in pieces the heart of his obedience. I dare pawn down my life
in pure kindness to his horse, buttered his hay.
in stealth, wolf in greediness, dog in madness, lion in prey.
in. Now a little fire in a wild field were like an old lecher's
in?
is diligence.
it be night, yet the moon shines. I'll make a sop o' th'
it; but the great one that goes upward, let him draw thee after.
itself. Let's see. Come, if it be nothing, I shall not need
judgment, to fight when I cannot choose, and to eat no fish.
justly; swear not; commit not with man's sworn spouse; set not
kibes?
kingdom, it appears not which of the Dukes he values most, for
knaves, thieves, and treachers by spherical pre-dominance;
know, sir, I am no flatterer. He that beguil'd you in a plain
known himself.
labouring i' th' winter. All that follow their noses are led by
least syllable of thy addition.
lecherous. Fut! I should have been that I am, had the
lie. I would fain learn to lie.
lord speak. Pray ye, go! There's my key. If you do stir abroad,
made him so ill, though he had been but two hours at the trade.
maidenliest star in the firmament twinkled on my bastardizing.
maintain talk with the Duke, that my charity be not of him
man cannot smell out, 'a may spy into.
me.
meat, the two crowns of the egg. When thou clovest thy crown i'
menaces and maledictions against king and nobles; needless
monopoly out, they would have part on't. And ladies too, they
moonshine o' you. Draw, you whoreson cullionly barbermonger!
mortar and daub the walls of a jakes with him. 'Spare my grey
must be relieved. There is some strange thing toward, Edmund.
must we look to receive from his age, not alone the
my closet. These injuries the King now bears will be revenged
my duty cannot be silent when I think your Highness wrong'd.
myself to be in a due resolution.
nativity was under Ursa Major, so that it follows I am rough and
nature finds itself scourg'd by the sequent effects. Love cools,
night- 'tis dangerous to be spoken- I have lock'd the letter in
no hide, the sheep no wool, the cat no perfume. Ha! Here's three
not as it hath power, but as it is suffer'd. Come to me, that
nothing for't. Can you make no use of nothing, nuncle?
notice that the Duke of Cornwall and Regan his Duchess will be
nuncle. Thou hast pared thy wit o' both sides and left nothing
nuncle? Would I had two coxcombs and two daughters!
nuptial breaches, and I know not what.
of Cornwall and Albany?
of Kent's banishment.
of heart, to ride on a bay trotting horse over four-inch'd
of nature; there's father against child. We have seen the best
of our time. Machinations, hollowness, treachery, and all
of this I may speak more. If our father would sleep till I
of unnaturalness between the child and the parent; death,
off appears too grossly.
offence, honesty! 'Tis strange.                       Exit.
old before thy time.
old rat and the ditch-dog, drinks the green mantle of the
on's are sophisticated! Thou art the thing itself;
one whom I will beat into clamorous whining, if thou deny the
one-trunk-inheriting slave; one that wouldst be a bawd in way of
ordinary men are fit for, I am qualified in, and the best of me
out of placket, thy pen from lender's book, and defy the foul
people fell ashouting.
perceived a most faint neglect of late, which I have rather
perceived. If he ask for me, I am ill and gone to bed. Though I
perus'd, I find it not fit for your o'erlooking.
planetary influence; and all that we are evil in, by a divine
pocket? The quality of nothing hath not such need to hide
prediction; there's son against father: the King falls from bias
proper.
prophecy ere I go:
purpose, it would make a great gap in your own honour and shake
put 'em i' th' paste alive. She knapp'd 'em o' th' coxcombs with
qualified the heat of his displeasure, which at this instant so
rageth in him that with the mischief of your person it would
rain water out o' door. Good nuncle, in, and ask thy daughters
rascal! Come your ways!
rascal, nature disclaims in thee; a tailor made thee.
ready?
round-womb'd, and had indeed, sir, a son for her cradle ere she
ruinous disorders follow us disquietly to our graves. Find out
satisfaction, and that without any further delay than this very
scarcely allay.
service.                                     [Gives money.]
shall be there afore you.
shall find means, and acquaint you withal.
shallow, beggarly, three-suited, hundred-pound, filthy,
she's as like this as a crab's like an apple, yet I can tell
should be as ward to the son, and the son manage his revenue.
sick in fortune, often the surfeit of our own behaviour, we make
sister most, and with what poor judgment he hath now cast her
slave! you cur!
slept in the contriving of lust, and wak'd to do it. Wine lov'd
snatching. Give me an egg, nuncle, and I'll give thee two
something saucily into the world before he was sent for, yet was
spectacles.
squints the eye, and makes the harelip; mildews the white wheat,
standing pool; who is whipp'd from tithing to tithing, and
stock-punish'd and imprison'd; who hath had three suits to his
suum, mun, hey, no, nonny. Dolphin my boy, my boy, sessa! let
take Vanity the puppet's part against the royalty of her father.
telling it and deliver a plain message bluntly. That which
th' middle and gav'st away both parts, thou bor'st thine ass on
than thou art now: I am a fool, thou art nothing.
that I have not all o'er-read; and for so much as I have
that will put me in trust, to love him that is honest, to
that's neither known of thee nor knows thee!
that, sons at perfect age, and fathers declining, the father
the King. I will seek him and privily relieve him. Go you and
the beloved of your brother,
the foul fiend rages, eats cow-dung for sallets, swallows the
the speed of his rage goes slower; and, as I say, retire with me
the unruly waywardness that infirm and choleric years bring with
the use of mine own house, charg'd me on pain of perpetual
the wall-newt and the water; that in the fury of his heart, when
their eyes but blind men, and there's not a nose among twenty
them.
thine own breeches,
this villain, Edmund; it shall lose thee nothing; do it
this, let him be whipp'd that first finds it so.
this, who yet is no dearer in my account. Though this knave came
this? Consider him well. Thou ow'st the worm no silk, the beast
thou follow him, thou must needs wear my coxcomb.- How now,
thou'dst well deserv'd it.
though I should win your displeasure to entreat me to't.
through fire and through flame, through ford and whirlpool, o'er
thrusting on. An admirable evasion of whore-master man, to lay
thy back o'er the dirt. Thou hadst little wit in thy bald crown
thy mother; for when thou gav'st them the rod, and put'st down
thy poor heart to woman. Keep thy foot out of brothel, thy hand
thy sweet heart on proud array. Tom 's acold.
till our oldness cannot relish them. I begin to find an idle
to my lodging, from whence I will fitly bring you to hear my
to this?
unaccommodated man is no more but such a poor, bare, forked
uncover'd body this extremity of the skies. Is man no more than
us. Though the wisdom of nature can reason it thus and thus, yet
villain! Unnatural, detested, brutish villain! worse than
villain! Where is he?
wak'd him, you should enjoy half his revenue for ever, and live
way sustain him.
we were villains on necessity; fools by heavenly compulsion;
wear;
what I can tell.
what should follow these eclipses.
wheel runs down a hill, lest it break thy neck with following
when thou gav'st thy golden one away. If I speak like myself in
where's my fool? I have not seen him this two days.
where, if you violently proceed against him, mistaking his
whipp'd for speaking true; thou'lt have me whipp'd for lying;
whirlwinds, star-blasting, and taking! Do poor Tom some charity,
whisper'd ones, for they are yet but ear-kissing arguments?
whom the foul fiend vexes. There could I have him now- and there-
whoreson must be acknowledged.- Do you know this noble gentleman,
will but offend us.
will not let me have all the fool to myself; they'll be
with such dispositions as he bears, this last surrender of his
wits! Tom 's acold. O, do de, do de, do de. Bless thee from
wooden nether-stocks.
word or countenance
words, and broke them in the sweet face of heaven; one that
wore gloves in my cap; serv'd the lust of my mistress' heart and
worsted-stocking knave; a lily-liver'd, action-taking, whoreson,
would have none but knaves follow it, since a fool gives it.
you'll give me leave, I will tread this unbolted villain into
you; frame the business after your own wisdom. I would unstate
your Highness is not entertain'd with that ceremonious affection
your indignation against my brother till you can derive from him
"Break up the Senate till another time,
"Brutus" will start a spirit as soon as "Caesar."
"Brutus, thou sleep'st: awake and see thyself!
"Brutus, thou sleep'st: awake!"
"Help, ho! They murther Caesar!" Who's within?
"Liberty, freedom, and enfranchisement!"
"Lo, Caesar is afraid"?
"Shall Rome, etc." Thus must I piece it out.
"Speak, strike, redress!" Am I entreated
"These are their reasons; they are natural":
'O that these hands could so redeem my son,
'Tis better that the enemy seek us;
'Tis good you know not that you are his heirs,
'Tis strange to think how much King John hath lost
'Tis three o'clock, and Romans, yet ere night
'Twas on a summer's evening, in his tent,
'Vive le roi!' as I have bank'd their towns?
(Which like dumb mouths do ope their ruby lips
A bare-ribb'd death, whose office is this day
A barren-spirited fellow, one that feeds
A canopy most fatal, under which
A chafed lion by the mortal paw,
A cock'red silken wanton, brave our fields
A curse shall light upon the limbs of men;
A fasting tiger safer by the tooth,
A fearful eye thou hast; where is that blood
A fellow by the hand of nature mark'd,
A foe to tyrants, and my country's friend.
A friend should bear his friend's infirmities,
A grain, a dust, a gnat, a wandering hair,
A hot friend cooling. Ever note, Lucilius,
A lioness hath whelped in the streets;
A little from this ground.
A man no mightier than thyself or me
A man of such a feeble temper should
A mother's curse-on her revolting son.
A passion hateful to my purposes;
A prize no less in worth. Keep this man safe,
A rage whose heat hath this condition
A ramping fool, to brag and stamp and swear
A sceptre snatch'd with an unruly hand
A shrewd contriver; and you know his means,
A thousand businesses are brief in hand,
A voluntary zeal and an unurg'd faith
A whole armado of convicted sail
A widow cries: Be husband to me, heavens!
A widow, husbandless, subject to fears;
A woman that Lord Brutus took to wife.
A woman well reputed, Cato's daughter.
A woman, naturally born to fears;
A wonder, or a wondrous miracle,
A wretched creature and must bend his body
Abortives, presages, and tongues of heaven,
About his funeral. And you shall speak
According to the which thou shalt discourse
Accoutred as I was, I plunged in
Acquainted me with interest to this land,
Action, nor utterance, nor the power of speech,
Add thus much more, that no Italian priest
After my speech is ended.
After such bloody toil, we bid good night;
After they heard young Arthur was alive?
After young Arthur, claim this land for mine;
Against an oath; the truth thou art unsure
Against mine uncle.
Against the Capitol I met a lion,
Against the Pope, and count his friends my foes.
Against the blood that thou hast married?
Against the mind, the which he pricks and wounds
Against these giddy loose suggestions;
Alas, it cried, "Give me some drink, Titinius,"
Alas, thou hast misconstrued everything!
Alas, you know not; I must tell you then.
All my engagements I will construe to thee,
All pity choked with custom of fell deeds,
All the charactery of my sad brows.
All the conspirators, save only he,
All things that you should use to do me wrong
Aloft the flood, and can give audience
Already smokes about the burning crest
Am I Rome's slave? What penny hath Rome borne,
Am bound to under-bear.
Ambition should be made of sterner stuff:
Among the high tides in the calendar?
Among the thorns and dangers of this world.
Among which number, Cassius, be you one-
An empty casket, where the jewel of life
An humble heart.                                     Kneels.
An if an angel should have come to me
And (her attendants absent) swallow'd fire.
And Brutus Antony, there were an Antony
And Brutus is an honorable man.
And Brutus is an honorable man.
And Caesar shall go forth.
And Caesar's spirit ranging for revenge,
And Earl of Richmond; and this rich fair town
And France, whose armour conscience buckled on,
And I did never ask it you again;
And I do fear them.
And I do fearfully believe 'tis done
And I do know by this, they stay for me
And I have made a happy peace with him;
And I must pause till it come back to me.
And I the elder and more terrible.
And I will bring him to the Capitol.
And I will give you audience.
And I will kiss thy detestable bones,
And I will look on both indifferently.
And I will seek for Pindarus the while.        Exit Messala.
And I will set this foot of mine as far
And I will sit as quiet as a lamb;
And I will strive with things impossible,
And I with him, and many moe with me,
And after scandal them, or if you know
And after seem to chide 'em. This shall make
And after this let Caesar seat him sure;
And all that we upon this side the sea-
And all the rest look like a chidden train:
And all the shrouds wherewith my life should sail
And am moreover suitor that I may
And as a suitor will I give him this.
And as he pluck'd his cursed steel away,
And bade him follow. So indeed he did.
And bay'd about with many enemies;
And be a carrion monster like thyself.
And be no further harmful than in show.
And be not jealous on me, gentle Brutus;
And be thou he.
And bear the palm alone. Shout.                    Flourish.
And bears with glasses, elephants with holes,
And being not done, where doing tends to ill,
And being rich, my virtue then shall be
And better conquest never canst thou make
And bid me give it thee? Didst thou not hear their shouts?
And bid me say to you by word of mouth-
And bid them speak for me. But were I Brutus,
And bind the boy which you shall find with me
And bitter shame hath spoil'd the sweet world's taste,
And blessed shall he be that doth revolt
And bloody England into England gone,
And bow'd like bondmen, kissing Caesar's feet;
And breathing to his breathless excellence
And bring me their opinions of success.
And bring me word what he doth say to thee.
And bring us word unto Octavius' tent
And brings from him such offers of our peace
And brought Prince Henry in their company;
And brought in matter that should feed this fire;
And buss thee as thy wife. Misery's love,
And buy men's voices to commend our deeds.
And by and by thy bosom shall partake
And by disjoining hands hell lose a soul.
And by that order of proscription.
And by the merit of vile gold, dross, dust,
And call in question our necessities.
And call it cunning. Do, an if you will.
And call them meteors, prodigies, and signs,
And calmly run on in obedience
And chase the native beauty from his cheek,
And chastisement doth therefore hide his head.
And come ye now to tell me John hath made
And come, young Cato; let us to the field.
And comfort me with cold. I do not ask you much;
And common good to all, made one of them.
And consequently thy rude hand to act
And constant do remain to keep him so.
And cull'd these fiery spirits from the world
And dangers are to me indifferent.
And didst in signs again parley with sin;
And dip their napkins in his sacred blood,
And do you now cull out a holiday?
And do you now put on your best attire?
And do you now strew flowers in his way
And dost thou now fall over to my foes?
And drawing days out that men stand upon.
And dreadful objects so familiar,
And drive away the vulgar from the streets;
And drop my blood for drachmas than to wring
And echo with the clamour of thy drum,
And even at hand a drum is ready brac'd
And even before this truce, but new before,
And even there, methinks, an angel spake:
And every man hence to his idle bed;
And evils imminent, and on her knee
And falsehood cures, as fire cools fire
And fearful, as these strange eruptions are.
And find no check? Let us, my liege, to arms.
And find th' inheritance of this poor child,
And flesh his spirit in a warlike soil,
And fly like thought from them to me again.
And follow me with speed. I'll to the King;
And follow unacquainted colours here?
And for Mark Antony, think not of him,
And foul imaginary eyes of blood
And fright him there, and make him tremble there?
And from Pope Innocent the legate here,
And from his Holiness use all your power
And from the organ-pipe of frailty sings
And ghosts did shriek and squeal about the streets.
And give you entrance; but without this match,
And glow with shame of your proceedings, Hubert.
And grapple thee unto a pagan shore,
And grapple with him ere he come so nigh.
And graves have yawn'd, and yielded up their dead;
And graze in commons.
And great affections wrestling in thy bosom
And grief that young Octavius with Mark Antony
And grievously hath Caesar answer'd it.
And groaning underneath this age's yoke,
And half their faces buried in their cloaks,
And hang a calf's-skin on those recreant limbs.
And happily may your sweet self put on
And happy newness, that intends old right.
And having brought our treasure where we will,
And he hath promis'd to dismiss the powers
And he shall say you are not well today.
And he shall wear his crown by sea and land
And he that speaks doth gripe the hearer's wrist,
And he that stands upon a slipp'ry place
And he will look as hollow as a ghost,
And he will, after his sour fashion, tell you
And he, long traded in it, makes it seem
And heal the inveterate canker of one wound
And heaven itself doth frown upon the land.                Exeunt
And here again, that I may rest assured
And here my naked breast; within, a heart
And here's a prophet that I brought with me
And his opinion. Now I change my mind,
And honest Casca, we have the falling sickness.
And if thou want'st a cord, the smallest thread
And in the pulpit, as becomes a friend,
And in the spirit of men there is no blood.
And in their rage, I having hold of both,
And in their steads do ravens, crows, and kites
And in this mood will give us anything.
And instantly return with me again
And is't not pity, O my grieved friends!
And it is very much lamented, Brutus,
And it shall be as all the ocean,
And it shall please me well. For mine own part,
And keep it safe for our remembrance;
And keep our faiths firm and inviolable.
And keep us all in servile fearfulness.              Exeunt.
And kill him in the shell.
And kiss the lips of unacquainted change,
And know it now, the Senate have concluded
And knows not how to do it but with tears.
And leave them honeyless.
And leave those woes alone which I alone
And let belief and life encounter so
And let me show you him that made the will.
And let our hearts, as subtle masters do,
And let us bathe our hands in Caesar's blood
And let us presently go sit in council,
And like a bated and retired flood,
And like a shifted wind unto a sail
And like an eagle o'er his aery tow'rs
And like. a civil war set'st oath to oath.
And look where Publius is come to fetch me.
And look you lay it in the praetor's chair,
And look'd upon, I hope, with cheerful eyes.
And made his majesty the bawd to theirs.
And mak'st an oath the surety for thy truth
And make a riot on the gentle brow
And make fair weather in your blust'ring land.
And make them tame to their obedience!
And make your bondmen tremble. Must I bouge?
And may not be performed by thyself,
And mayst be honor'd, being Cato's son.
And men are flesh and blood, and apprehensive;
And men have lost their reason. Bear with me;
And meritorious shall that hand be call'd,
And mock the deep-mouth'd thunder; for at hand-
And module of confounded royalty.
And more, more strong, when lesser is my fear,
And most forsworn to keep what thou dost swear.
And nature must obey necessity,
And ne'er have spoke a loving word to you;
And no man else hath honor by his death.
And none of you will bid the winter come
And none so poor to do him reverence.
And not dismember Caesar! But, alas,
And not for justice? What, shall one of us,
And not my husband's secrets?
And not to spend it so unneighbourly!
And now 'tis far too huge to be blown out
And oftentimes excusing of a fault
And on our actions set the name of right
And on that day at noon whereon he says
And on the winking of authority
And open perils surest answered.
And others more, going to seek the grave
And our oppression hath made up this league.
And part the numbers.
And partly credit things that do presage.
And pick strong matter of revolt and wrath
And pity to the general wrong of Rome-
And pours down mischief. Austria's head lie there,
And presently prefer his suit to Caesar.
And prove a deadly bloodshed but a jest,
And public reasons shall be rendered
And put my eyeballs in thy vaulty brows,
And put on fear and cast yourself in wonder
And quarter'd in her heart-he doth espy
And quench his fiery indignation
And raise the power of France upon his head,
And reason to my love is liable.
And ring these fingers with thy household worms,
And rouse from sleep that fell anatomy
And say there is no sin but to be rich;
And say to all the world, "This was a man!"
And say you do't by our permission,
And see how I regarded Caius Cassius.
And see wheer Brutus be alive or dead,
And sell the mighty space of our large honors
And send him word by me which way you go.
And shall I now give o'er the yielded set?
And shall these hands, so lately purg'd of blood,
And she a fair divided excellence,
And she not hear of it?
And show of love as I was wont to have;
And show the reason of our Caesar's death.
And since you know you cannot see yourself
And snarleth in the gentle eyes of peace;
And so I would be here but that I doubt
And so bestow these papers as you bade me.
And so he'll die; and, rising so again,
And so ingrateful you deny me that.
And so return to you, and nothing else?
And so shall you, being beaten. Do but start
And so, good morrow to you every one.
And some that smile have in their hearts, I fear,
And something to be done immediately.
And sooth'st up greatness. What a fool art thou,
And spleen of speed to see your Majesty!
And stemming it with hearts of controversy.
And stop this gap of breath with fulsome dust,
And straight is cold again.
And strain their cheeks to idle merriment,
And strew'd repentant ashes on his head.
And such as to my claim are liable,
And sudden push gives them the overthrow.
And sure he is an honorable man.
And swim to yonder point?" Upon the word,
And ta'en, I fear.
And talk to you sometimes? Dwell I but in the suburbs
And tame the savage spirit of wild war,
And teaches me to kill or hang myself.
And tell me how you would bestow yourself.
And tell me truly what thou think'st of him.
And tell me what thou notest about the field.
And tell them that I will not come today.
And tempt the rheumy and unpurged air
And tempt us not to bear above our power!
And that craves wary walking. Crown him that,
And that high royalty was ne'er pluck'd off,
And that same eye whose bend doth awe the world
And that we are contented Caesar shall
And that were much he should, for he is given
And that which would appear offense in us,
And the complexion of the element
And the conjunction of our inward souls
And the first motion, all the interim is
And the persuasion of his augurers
And the wind brings it from the Capitol.
And then I swore thee, saving of thy life,
And then all this thou seest is but a clod
And then my soul shall wait on thee to heaven,
And then the end is known. Come, ho! Away!           Exeunt.
And then we will deliver you the cause
And then, I grant, we put a sting in him
And therefore are they very dangerous.
And therefore think him as a serpent's egg
And these does she apply for warnings and portents
And they are all about his Majesty.
And they would go and kiss dead Caesar's wounds
And things unluckily charge my fantasy.
And this last night here in Philippi fields.
And this same bias, this commodity,
And this the bleeding business they have done.
And this, indeed, O world, the heart of thee.
And this, so sole and so unmatchable,
And those thy fears might have wrought fears in me.
And thou possessed with a thousand wrongs;
And thou shalt be canoniz'd, Cardinal;
And thou, to be endeared to a king,
And though thou now confess thou didst but jest,
And though we lay these honors on this man
And thrust thyself into their companies.
And thus unbraced, Casca, as you see,
And to your heirs forever- common pleasures,
And told me Hubert should put out mine eyes,
And too impatiently stamp'd with your foot.
And took his voice who should be prick'd to die
And touch thy instrument a strain or two?
And true subjection everlastingly.
And turn preordinance and first decree
And two such shores to two such streams made one,
And very wisely threat before you sting.
And warrant limited unto my tongue.
And waving our red weapons o'er our heads,
And we are govern'd with our mothers' spirits;
And we like friends will straightway go together.
And we must take the current when it serves,
And we shall shock them. Nought shall make us rue,
And we will follow.
And welcome home again discarded faith.
And well shall you perceive how willingly
And when I ask'd you what the matter was,
And when my face is cover'd, as 'tis now,
And when the cross blue lightning seem'd to open
And when the fit was on him I did mark
And when they talk of him, they shake their heads,
And when you do them-
And when you saw his chariot but appear,
And where I did begin, there shall I end;
And wheresoe'er this foot of mine doth tread,
And whether we shall meet again I know not.
And whisper one another in the ear;
And why rail I on this commodity?
And wild amazement hurries up and down
And will again commit them to their bonds,
And will he steal out of his wholesome bed
And will not let me welcome this good news.
And will not palter? And what other oath
And will not temporize with my entreaties;
And will, no doubt, with reasons answer you.
And with a great heart heave away this storm;
And with a heart new-fired I follow you,
And with advantage means to pay thy love;
And with her golden hand hath pluck'd on France
And with hot irons must I burn them out.
And with my hand at midnight held your head;
And with the brands fire the traitors' houses.
And with the half-blown rose; but Fortune, O!
And would not harm me.
And wound our tott'ring colours clearly up,
And yesterday the bird of night did sit
And you degenerate, you ingrate revolts,
And you have slander'd nature in my form,
And your supply, which you have wish'd so long,
And, O, what better matter breeds for you
And, as you answer, I do know the scope
And, being men, hearing the will of Caesar,
And, being prostrate, thus he bade me say:
And, by my troth, I think thou lov'st me well.
And, could it work so much upon your shape
And, dying, mention it within their wills,
And, ere our coming, see thou shake the bags
And, father Cardinal, I have heard you say
And, for my sake, stay here with Antony.
And, for thy humor, I will stay at home.
And, friends, disperse yourselves, but all remember
And, if not so, how should I wrong a brother?
And, in his mantle muffling up his face,
And, in some taste, is Lepidus but so:
And, in the last repeating, troublesome,
And, like a dog that is compell'd to fight,
And, like the watchful minutes to the hour,
And, my good friend, thy voluntary oath
And, noble Dauphin, albeit we swear
And, now it is half-conquer'd, must I back
And, pretty child, sleep doubtless and secure
Anon becomes a mountain. O noble Dauphin,
Another lean unwash'd artificer
Answering before we do demand of them.
Any annoyance in that precious sense!
Any exploit worthy the name of honor.
Approaching near these eyes would drink my tears,
Apt to be render'd, for someone to say
Apt, liable to be employ'd in danger,
Are all thy conquests, glories, triumphs, spoils,
Are capable of this ambition,
Are cast away and sunk on Goodwin Sands.
Are come with Cassius.                     Low march within.
Are full of rest, defense, and nimbleness.
Are led so grossly by this meddling priest,
Are levying powers; we must straight make head;
Are much condemn'd to have an itching palm,
Are not you griev'd that Arthur is his prisoner?
Are rid like madmen through the gates of Rome.
Are then in council, and the state of man,
Are those my tents where I perceive the fire?
Are to the world in general as to Caesar.
Are turned to one thread, one little hair;
Are we not beaten? Is not Angiers lost?
Are wreck'd three nights ago on Goodwin Sands;
Are you more stubborn-hard than hammer'd iron?
Arise forth from the couch of lasting night,
Arm, arm, you heavens, against these perjur'd kings!
Art thou damn'd, Hubert.
Art thou here yet?
Art thou some god, some angel, or some devil
Arthur doth live; the King hath sent for you.
Arthur ta'en prisoner? Divers dear friends slain?
As Caesar's death's hour, nor no instrument
As Cassius' legions are by Antony.
As God's own soldier, rounded in the ear
As I am sure they do, bear fire enough
As I upon advantage did remove,
As Lewis himself. So, nobles, shall you all,
As Pompey was, am I compell'd to set
As a sick girl. Ye gods! It doth amaze me
As bid me tell my tale in express words,
As dear be to thee as thy father was.
As dear to me as are the ruddy drops
As dim and meagre as an ague's fit;
As doth a raven on a sick-fall'n beast,
As doth the fury of two desperate men
As doth the lion in the Capitol,
As easily as a king.
As fire drives out fire, so pity pity-
As good to die and go, as die and stay.              [Leaps down]
As he hath used of old.
As here by Caesar, and by you cut off,
As huge as high Olympus.
As if he mock'd himself and scorn'd his spirit
As if they came from several citizens,
As in thy red rays thou dost sink to night,
As it hath much prevail'd on your condition,
As it makes harmful all that speak of it.
As it on earth hath been thy servant still.
As it were doomsday.
As loud as thine, rattle the welkin's ear
As low as to thy foot doth Cassius fall
As maids of thirteen do of puppy-dogs!
As now again to snatch our palm from palm,
As patches set upon a little breach
As rushing out of doors, to be resolved
As she in beauty, education, blood,
As that same ague which hath made you lean.
As they have given these hairs their liberty!'
As this hath made me. Who was he that said
As thou dost, Antony; he hears no music;
As thou shalt be, if thou didst kill this child.
As tidings of this sight.
As to annoy us all, which to prevent,
As to my ample hope was promised
As we have seen him in the Capitol,
As we to keep this city.
As we were sickly prey. Their shadows seem
As we with honour and respect may take,
As well as I do know your outward favor.
As who goes farthest.
As, by our hands and this our present act
Assemble all the poor men of your sort,
Assured loss before the match be play'd.
At whose request the King hath pardon'd them,
At your best leisure, this his humble suit.
Attended with the pleasures of the world,
Avaunt, thou hateful villain, get thee gone!
Awakes my conscience to confess all this.
Away with me, all you whose souls abhor
Away, and glister like the god of war
Away, before! conduct me to the King;
Ay, and that tongue of his that bade the Romans
BASTARD. They found him dead, and cast into the streets,
Be Mercury, set feathers to thy heels,
Be angry when you will, it shall have scope;
Be any further moved. What you have said
Be factious for redress of all these griefs,
Be gone!
Be great in act, as you have been in thought;
Be guilty of the stealing that sweet breath
Be hung with Caesar's trophies. I'll about
Be near me, that I may remember you.
Be not deceived; if I have veil'd my look,
Be ready, gods, with all your thunderbolts,
Be stirring as the time; be fire with fire;
Be stronger with thee than the name of wife?
Be sudden, for we fear prevention.
Be these sad signs confirmers of thy words?
Be thou my witness that, against my will,
Be well advis'd, tell o'er thy tale again.
Be well avenged, or till another Caesar
Because I knew the man, were slighted off.
Because I love you, I will let you know.
Because my poor child is a prisoner.
Because that John hath made his peace with Rome?
Because-
Become thy great birth, nor deserve a crown.
Becomes a sun, and makes your son a shadow.
Been sworn my soldier, bidding me depend
Before I drew this gallant head of war,
Before a willing bondman; then I know
Before the child himself felt he was sick.
Before the eyes of both our armies here,
Began to water. Is thy master coming?
Begin his fashion. Do not talk of him
Begin it with weak straws. What trash is Rome,
Behold another day break in the east;
Being an ordinary inundation;
Being create for comfort, to be us'd
Being cross'd in conference by some senators.
Being mechanical, you ought not walk
Being so father'd and so husbanded?
Being urged at a time unseasonable.
Believe me I do not believe thee, man;
Bend their best studies, heartily request
Bending their expedition toward Philippi.
Bequeathing it as a rich legacy
Besides the things that we have heard and seen,
Besides, I met Lord Bigot and Lord Salisbury,
Besides- I ha' not since put up my sword-
Between compulsion and a brave respect!
Between his purpose and his conscience,
Between my conscience and my cousin's death.
Between our kingdoms and our royal selves;
Between the acting of a dreadful thing
Between this chastis'd kingdom and myself
Betwixt your eyes and night?
Beyond the infinite and boundless reach
Bid him set on his powers betimes before,
Bid our commanders lead their charges off
Black, fearful, comfortless, and horrible.
Blood and destruction shall be so in use,
Both for myself and them- but, chief of all,
Both meet to hear and answer such high things.
Both they and we, perusing o'er these notes,
Boy! Lucius! Fast asleep? It is no matter.
Boy! Lucius! Varro! Claudio! Sirs, awake!
Boy, stand aside. Caius Ligarius, how?
Brave son, derived from honorable loins!
Bring them before me.
Brother of England, how may we content
Brutus and Caesar: what should be in that "Caesar"?
Brutus had rather be a villager
Brutus is noble, wise, valiant, and honest;
Brutus is ta'en, Brutus is ta'en, my lord.
Brutus shall lead, and we will grace his heels
Brutus', to Cassius'; burn all. Some to Decius' house, and some
Brutus, my country's friend; know me for Brutus!       Exit.
Brutus, what shall be done? If this be known,
But 'tis not so.
But Brutus makes mine greater than they are.
But Brutus says he was ambitious,
But Cassius is no more. O setting sun,
But Dover Castle. London hath receiv'd,
But I am constant as the northern star,
But I do find it cowardly and vile,
But I do love the favour and the form
But I will fit it with some better time.
But all be buried in his gravity.
But as I travell'd hither through the land,
But as a property. And now, Octavius,
But as we under heaven are supreme head,
But bear it as our Roman actors do,
But buffets better than a fist of France.
But by reflection, by some other things.
But cold demeanor in Octavia's wing,
But ere we could arrive the point proposed,
But even this night, whose black contagious breath
But for because he hath not woo'd me yet;
But for containing fire to harm mine eye.
But for my hand, as unattempted yet,
But for supporting robbers, shall we now
But for the general. He would be crown'd:
But for your words, they rob the Hybla bees,
But from her need.
But he's a tried and valiant soldier.
But here I am to speak what I do know.
But here's a parchment with the seal of Caesar;
But hold himself safe in his prisonment.
But hollow men, like horses hot at hand,
But honors you, and every one doth wish
But if you would consider the true cause
But in despair die under the black weight.
But in ourselves that we are underlings.
But it sufficeth that the day will end,
But it was famed with more than with one man?
But keep the hills and upper regions.
But kill'st the mother that engender'd thee!
But let not therefore my good friends be grieved-
But life, being weary of these worldly bars,
But men may construe things after their fashion,
But never till tonight, never till now,
But not with such familiar instances,
But now I envy at their liberty,
But now in arms you strengthen it with yours.
But now will canker sorrow eat my bud
But on this day let seamen fear no wreck;
But on, my liege, for very little pains
But since you are a gentle convertite,
But speak all good you can devise of Caesar,
But spoke the harm that is by others done?
But stay'd and made the western welkin blush,
But such is the infection of the time
But that he sees the Romans are but sheep.
But that my noble master will appear
But that which ends all counsel, true redress-
But the word 'maid,' cheats the poor maid of that;
But there's but one in all doth hold his place.
But they will pluck away his natural cause
But they will quake and tremble all this day.
But this effusion of such manly drops,
But this one word, whether thy tale be true.
But thou art fair, and at thy birth, dear boy,
But thou didst understand me by my signs,
But thou dost swear only to be forsworn;
But thou hast sworn against religion
But thou shalt have; and creep time ne'er so slow,
But we the doers.
But what compact mean you to have with us?
But when I tell him he hates flatterers,
But when he once attains the upmost round,
But when her humorous ladyship is by
But when it first did help to wound itself.
But when they should endure the bloody spur,
But wherefore do you droop? Why look you sad?
But wherefore do you hold me here so long?
But win the noble Brutus to our party-
But with an angry waiter of your hand
But yet my nature could not bear it so.
But you at your sick service had a prince.
But, Lepidus, go you to Caesar's house,
But, ah, I will not! Yet I love thee well;
But, as it were, in sort or limitation,
But, as you know me all, a plain blunt man,
But, for your private satisfaction,
But, heaven be thank'd, it is but voluntary.
But, hold thee, take this garland on thy brow;
But, since the affairs of men rest still incertain,
But, taking note of thy abhorr'd aspect,
But, woe the while! Our fathers' minds are dead,
By all your vows of love and that great vow
By any indirection. I did send
By any mark of favor.
By cutting off your heads. Thus hath he sworn,
By giving it the worship of revenge.
By heaven, Hubert, I am almost asham'd
By heaven, I had rather coin my heart
By heaven, I think my sword's as sharp as yours.
By heaven, I would do it.
By his persuasion are again fall'n off,
By making many. O, it grieves my soul
By means whereof this breast of mine hath buried
By our permission, is allow'd to make.
By slaves that take their humours for a warrant
By some damn'd hand was robbed and ta'en away.
By that which he will utter?
By their proscriptions, Cicero being one.
By them shall make a fuller number up,
By this vile conquest shall attain unto.
By what thou swear'st against the thing thou swear'st,
By which I did blame Cato for the death
By which he did ascend. So Caesar may;
By your leave, gods, this is a Roman's part.
Caesar cried, "Help me, Cassius, or I sink!
Caesar doth bear me hard, but he loves Brutus.
Caesar has had great wrong.
Caesar must bleed for it! And, gentle friends,
Caesar said to me, "Darest thou, Cassius, now
Caesar should be a beast without a heart
Caesar was mighty, bold, royal, and loving.
Caesar was ne'er so much your enemy
Caesar's ambition shall be glanced at.
Caesar, now be still;
Call Claudio and some other of my men,
Calpurnia here, my wife, stays me at home;
Calpurnia's cheek is pale, and Cicero
Came smiling and did bathe their hands in it.
Can be retentive to the strength of spirit;
Can hold it up.                     [Seats herself on the ground]
Can in this book of beauty read 'I love,'
Can task the free breath of a sacred king?
Can you not read it? Is it not fair writ?
Cannot, is false, and that I dare not, falser:
Canonized, and worshipp'd as a saint,
Canst thou hold up thy heavy eyes awhile,
Cassius from bondage will deliver Cassius.
Cassius or Caesar never shall turn back,
Cassius, go you into the other street
Check'd like a bondman; all his faults observed,
Choose Caesar for their king.
Clamours of hell, be measures to our pomp?
Clapp'd on the outward eye of fickle France,
Claudio!
Clean from the purpose of the things themselves.
Clouds, dews, and dangers come; our deeds are done!
Come I to speak in Caesar's funeral.
Come down upon us with a mighty power,
Come hither, sirrah.
Come home to me and I will wait for you.
Come on my right hand, for this ear is deaf,
Come on refresh'd, new-added, and encouraged;
Come the three corners of the world in arms,
Come therefore, and to Thasos send his body;
Come to our tent till we have done our conference.
Come to the Capitol.
Come, Casca, you and I will yet ere day
Come, Cassius' sword, and find Titinius' heart.
Come, come; for thou shalt thrust thy hand as deep
Come, grin on me, and I will think thou smil'st,
Comes Caesar to the Capitol tomorrow?
Coming from Sardis, on our former ensign
Command thy son and daughter to join hands.
Commend me to one Hubert, with your King;
Commend these waters to those baby eyes
Commodity, the bias of the world-
Companion, hence!
Conceptions only proper to myself,
Confound themselves. 'Tis strange that death should sing.
Contaminate our fingers with base bribes
Cool and congeal again to what it was.
Counts it your weal he have his liberty.
Creatures of note for mercy-lacking uses.
Cries out upon the name of Salisbury!
Cry "Caesar." Speak, Caesar is turn'd to hear.
Cry "Havoc!" and let slip the dogs of war,
Crying "Long live! Hail, Caesar!"
Cuts off his tale, and talks of Arthur's death.
Cuts off so many years of fearing death.
Dash him to pieces!
Dear amity and everlasting love.
Dearer than Pluto's mine, richer than gold.
Death, death; O amiable lovely death!
Death, having prey'd upon the outward parts,
Decius, go tell them Caesar will not come.
Deep shame had struck me dumb, made me break off,
Defiance, traitors, hurl we in your teeth.
Deliver him to safety; and return,
Deny their office; only you do lack
Depart untouch'd.
Desires your Majesty to leave the field
Desiring thee that Publius Cimber may
Devoured by the unexpected flood.                 [The KING dies]
Did I go through a tempest dropping fire.
Did I not meet thy friends? And did not they
Did I say "better"?
Did I the tired Caesar. And this man
Did from the flames of Troy upon his shoulder
Did lose his luster. I did hear him groan.
Did need an oath; when every drop of blood
Did not great Julius bleed for justice' sake?
Did run pure blood, and many lusty Romans
Did that they did in envy of great Caesar;
Did this in Caesar seem ambitious?
Did with his iron tongue and brazen mouth
Discredit more in hiding of the fault
Do I shrink up.
Do as I bid you do.
Do glorify the banks that bound them in;
Do glue themselves in sociable grief,
Do grace to Caesar's corse, and grace his speech
Do in his name religiously demand
Do kiss the most exalted shores of all.
Do not go forth today. Call it my fear
Do prophesy upon it dangerously;
Do so conjointly meet, let not men say
Do stand but in a forced affection,
Do what you will, dishonor shall be humor.
Doing himself offense, whilst we lying still
Domestic fury and fierce civil strife
Dost thou here lie!
Doth by the idle comments that it makes
Doth dogged war bristle his angry crest
Doth he still rage?                                    Exit BIGOT
Doth lay it open to urge on revenge.
Doth make a stand at what your Highness will.
Doth make an earthquake of nobility.
Doth make the fault the worse by th' excuse,
Doth move the murmuring lips of discontent
Doth show the mood of a much troubled breast,
Doth want example; who hath read or heard
Draw them to Tiber banks, and weep your tears
Drawn in the flattering table of her eye.
Dreading the curse that money may buy out,
Durst I have done my will. O Cassius!
Early tomorrow will we rise and hence.
Either a coward or a flatterer.
Either led or driven, as we point the way;
Either there is a civil strife in heaven,
Else shall you not have any hand at all
Else what a mockery should it be to swear!
Endure the winter's cold as well as he.
Enjoy the honey-heavy dew of slumber;
Enough to stifle such a villain up
Enter the conspirators, Cassius, Casca, Decius, Cinna,
Envenom him with words, or get thee gone
Ere I can tell thee what thou shouldst do there.
Even at my gates, with ranks of foreign pow'rs;
Even at noonday upon the marketplace,
Even at that news he dies; and then the hearts
Even at the base of Pompey's statue,
Even at the crying of your nation's crow,
Even for that our love of old, I prithee,
Even from darkness.
Even in the aim and very flash of it.
Even in the instant of repair and health,
Even in the jaws of danger and of death.
Even in the matter of mine innocence;
Even on that altar where we swore to you
Even this ill night, your breathing shall expire,
Even to our ocean, to great King John.
Even to that drop ten thousand wiry friends
Even with a treacherous fine of all your lives.
Even with the fierce looks of these bloody men.
Even with the sword that kill'd thee.                  Dies.
Ever in France shall be kept festival.
Exampled by this heinous spectacle.
Except immortal Caesar, speaking of Brutus
Except this city now by us besieg'd-
Exeunt
Falls shrewdly to the purpose.
False blood to false blood join'd! Gone to be friends!
Far from this country Pindarus shall run,
Fare you well; had you such a loss as I,
Farewell to thee too, Strato. Countrymen,
Farewell, good Messala;
Fashion it thus, that what he is, augmented,
Fast to the chair. Be heedful; hence, and watch.
Father, I may not wish the fortune thine;
Fearing to strengthen that impatience
Fellow, be gone: I cannot brook thy sight;
Fellow, wilt thou bestow thy time with me?
Fetch the will hither, and we shall determine
Fierce fiery warriors fight upon the clouds,
Figur'd quite o'er with burning meteors.
Find liable to our crown and dignity,
Finding thee fit for bloody villainy,
First made to heaven, first be to heaven perform'd,
First, Marcus Brutus, will I shake with you;
Fly not, stand still; ambition's debt is paid.
Fly o'er our heads and downward look on us,
Fly, therefore, noble Cassius, fly far off.
For Anjou, and fair Touraine, Maine, Poictiers,
For Antony is but a limb of Caesar.
For Brutus is an honorable man;
For Brutus only overcame himself,
For Brutus, as you know, was Caesar's angel.
For Cassius is aweary of the world:
For England go; I will whet on the King.
For I am arm'd so strong in honesty,
For I am fresh of spirit and resolved
For I am sick and capable of fears,
For I am stifled with this smell of sin.
For I believe they are portentous things
For I can give his humor the true bent,
For I can raise no money by vile means.
For I do love her most unfeignedly.
For I do see the cruel pangs of death
For I have neither wit, nor words, nor worth,
For I have seen more years, I'm sure, than ye.
For I must use thee.
For I will slay myself.
For all the treasure that thine uncle owes.
For any foreign preparation
For at Saint Mary's chapel presently
For by this knot thou shalt so surely tie
For certain she is dead, and by strange manner.
For certain sums of gold, which you denied me,
For even the breath of what I mean to speak
For fear of what might fall, so to prevent
For grief is proud, and makes his owner stoop.
For he can do no more than Caesar's arm
For he is superstitious grown of late,
For he that holds his kingdom holds the law;
For he that steeps his safety in true blood
For he went sickly forth; and take good note
For he will live and laugh at this hereafter.
For he will never follow anything
For heaven sake, Hubert, let me not be bound!
For if the French be lords of this loud day,
For if thou path, thy native semblance on,
For if you should, O, what would come of it!
For in a night the best part of my pow'r,
For in the ingrated love he bears to Caesar-
For it is after midnight, and ere day
For let the gods so speed me as I love
For many carriages he hath dispatch'd
For my part, I have walk'd about the streets,
For once, upon a raw and gusty day,
For piercing steel and darts envenomed
For putting on so new a fashion'd robe.
For since the birth of Cain, the first male child,
For so he will'd it.
For so much trash as may be grasped thus?
For some new honors that are heap'd on Caesar.
For taking bribes here of the Sardians,
For that my grandsire was an Englishman-
For that which is not in me?
For that which thou hast sworn to do amiss
For the base matter to illuminate
For the repealing of my banish'd brother?
For then 'tis like I should forget myself.
For then I should not love thee; no, nor thou
For they have grudged us contribution.
For thus his royalty doth speak in me.
For tinctures, stains, relics, and cognizance.
For villainy is not without such rheum;
For we will shake him, or worse days endure.           Exit.
For we'll create young Arthur Duke of Britaine,
For when the noble Caesar saw him stab,
For when you should be told they do prepare,
For who so firm that cannot be seduced?
For you have stol'n their buzzing, Antony,
For your fair safety. So, I kiss your hand.
For your own ladies and pale-visag'd maids,
For, being not mad, but sensible of grief,
For, look, he smiles, and Caesar doth not change.
Foretell the ending of mortality.
Forethought by heaven!
Forever, and forever, farewell, Cassius!
Forgets the shows of love to other men.
Forgive the comment that my passion made
Forgo the easier.
Form such another? This is the very top,
Found it too precious-princely for a grave.
Four fixed, and the fifth did whirl about
France friend with England; what becomes of me?
France is a bawd to Fortune and King John-
France, I am burn'd up with inflaming wrath,
France, thou mayst hold a serpent by the tongue,
Fresh expectation troubled not the land
Friends am I with you all and love you all,
From a resolv'd and honourable war,
From all direction, purpose, course, intent-
From forth the noise and rumour of the field,
From forth the streets of Pomfret, whom I found
From forth this morsel of dead royalty
From his allegiance to an heretic;
From out the circle of his territories.
From that it is disposed; therefore it is meet
From the hard hands of peasants their vile trash
From this my hand, as holding of the Pope,
From which advantage shall we cut him off
From whose obedience I forbid my soul
Fulfill your pleasure. Live a thousand years,
Full of unpleasing blots and sightless stains,
Full of warm blood, of mirth, of gossiping.
Full thirty thousand marks of English coin.
Further I will not flatter you, my lord,
Gain, be my lord, for I will worship thee.                   Exit
Gave sign for me to leave you. So I did,
Gentlemen all- alas, what shall I say?
Give guess how near to day. Lucius, I say!
Give him all kindness; I had rather have
Give life to yours.
Give me my robe, for I will go.
Give me the gown. Where is thy instrument?
Give me thy hand. I had a thing to say-
Give so much light that I may read by them.
Give with our niece a dowry large enough;
Giving myself a voluntary wound
Go I to make the French lay down their arms.                 Exit
Go after him; for he perhaps shall need
Go show your slaves how choleric you are,
Go we as well as haste will suffer us
Go with me to the King. 'Tis wonderful
Go you down that way towards the Capitol;
Good Hubert, Hubert, Hubert, throw thine eye
Good father Cardinal, cry thou 'amen'
Good ground, be pitiful and hurt me not!
Good lords, although my will to give is living,
Good morrow to you. Here the street is narrow,
Good morrow, Brutus, do we trouble you?
Good morrow, Casca. Caius Ligarius,
Good night and good repose.
Good night, Titinius; noble, noble Cassius,
Gorging and feeding from our soldiers' hands,
Govern the motion of a kingly eye.
Grandam, I will not wish thy wishes thrive.
Grow great by your example and put on
Guide thou the sword. [Pindarus stabs him.] Caesar, thou art
Hack'd one another in the sides of Caesar.
Had I as many eyes as thou hast wounds,
Had bak'd thy blood and made it heavy-thick,
Had falsely thrust upon contrary feet,
Had you a healthful ear to hear of it.
Had you your letters from your wife, my lord?
Hang'd in the frowning wrinkle of her brow,
Hark, boy, what noise is that?
Hark, hark, one knocks. Portia, go in awhile,
Hast thou not spoke like thunder on my side,
Hated by one he loves; braved by his brother;
Hath almost ended his life's history.
Hath begg'd that I will stay at home today.
Hath done this deed on Caesar. For your part,
Hath drawn him from his own determin'd aid,
Hath given me some worthy cause to wish
Hath told you Caesar was ambitious;
Hath willingly departed with a part;
Have I commandment on the pulse of life?
Have I in conquest stretch'd mine arm so far
Have I not heard these islanders shout out
Have I not here the best cards for the game
Have I not pawn'd to you my majesty?
Have added slaughter to the sword of traitors.
Have all true rites and lawful ceremonies.
Have an immediate freedom of repeal.
Have bared my bosom to the thunderstone;
Have done me shame. Brave soldier, pardon me
Have had resort to you; for here have been
Have made themselves so strong- for with her death
Have mind upon your health, tempt me no farther.
Have put to death an hundred senators.
Have rived the knotty oaks, and I have seen
Have stood against the world. Now lies he there,
Have struck but thus much show of fire from Brutus.
Have thews and limbs like to their ancestors.
Have thus proceeded.
Have wish'd that noble Brutus had his eyes.
Have you climb'd up to walls and battlements,
Have you not made an universal shout
He bears too great a mind. But this same day
He came not back. He is or ta'en or slain.
He comes upon a wish. Fortune is merry,
He draws Mark Antony out of the way.
He finds himself beholding to us all.
He first presents his fire, and the high east
He flatly says he'll not lay down his arms.
He gives the bastinado with his tongue;
He had a fever when he was in Spain,
He hath a stern look but a gentle heart.
He hath brought many captives home to Rome,
He is a friend. Cinna, where haste you so?
He is a great observer, and he looks
He is a noble Roman and well given.
He is a very serpent in my way;
He is afraid of me, and I of him.
He is forsworn if e'er those eyes of yours
He is prepar'd, and reason too he should.
He lies before me. Dost thou understand me?
He loves me well, and I have given him reasons;
He means to recompense the pains you take
He must be taught, and train'd, and bid go forth;
He only, in a general honest thought
He says he does, being then most flattered.
He shall be satisfied and, by my honor,
He shall but bear them as the ass bears gold,
He should not humor me. I will this night,
He show'd his warrant to a friend of mine;
He speaks by leave and by permission,
He speaks plain cannon-fire, and smoke and bounce;
He tells us Arthur is deceas'd to-night.
He then unto the ladder turns his back,
He thinks too much; such men are dangerous.
He was my friend, faithful and just to me;
He was quick mettle when he went to school.
He were no lion, were not Romans hinds.
He will awake my mercy, which lies dead;
He will be found like Brutus, like himself.
He would embrace the means to come by it.
He'll think your mother chides, and leave you so.
He's ta'en [Shout.] And, hark! They shout for joy.
Hear me without thine cars, and make reply
Hear me, O, hear me!
Hear'st thou the news abroad, who are arriv'd?
Heaven knows, they were besmear'd and overstain'd
Heaven take my soul, and England keep my bones!
Held up his left hand, which did flame and burn
Her Highness is in safety, fear you not;
Her dowry shall weigh equal with a queen;
Her enemies' ranks-I must withdraw and weep
Her presence would have interrupted much.
Here I and sorrows sit;
Here comes his body, mourned by Mark Antony, who, though he had
Here didst thou fall, and here thy hunters stand,
Here in the thigh. Can I bear that with patience
Here is a mourning Rome, a dangerous Rome,
Here is himself, marr'd, as you see, with traitors.
Here is my throne, bid kings come bow to it.
Here was a Caesar! When comes such another?
Here will I stand till Caesar pass along,
Here's Decius Brutus, he shall tell them so.
Here, as I point my sword, the sun arises,
Here, under leave of Brutus and the rest-
Hide it in smiles and affability;
Hie hence, and tell him so. Yet stay awhile,
Himself love's traitor. This is pity now,
Himself to Rome; his spirit is come in,
His corporal motion govern'd by my spirit.
His countenance, like richest alchemy,
His coward lips did from their color fly,
His funerals shall not be in our camp,
His honour. O, thine honour, Lewis, thine honour!
His life was gentle, and the elements
His little kingdom of a forced grave.
His passion is so ripe it needs must break.
His peace with Rome? What is that peace to me?
His private arbors, and new-planted orchards,
His soul and body to their lasting rest.
His time of fearing death. Stoop, Romans, stoop,
Hold out this tempest. Bear away that child,
Hold then my sword, and turn away thy face,
Hold thou my sword-hilts, whilst I run on it.
Holding th' eternal spirit, against her will,
Holds hand with any princess of the world.
Hoping it was but an effect of humor,
Horses did neigh and dying men did groan,
Hostility and civil tumult reigns
How Caesar hath deserved to lie in death,
How I had moved them. Bring me to Octavius.          Exeunt.
How I have thought of this and of these times,
How I may be deliver'd of these woes,
How can the law forbid my tongue to curse?
How covert matters may be best disclosed,
How easy dost thou take all England up!
How everything is chanced.                           Exeunt.
How hard it is for women to keep counsel!
How he did shake. 'Tis true, this god did shake;
How he received you. Let me be resolved.
How ill this taper burns! Ha, who comes here?
How like a deer strucken by many princes
How now, fellow?
How oft the sight of means to do ill deeds
How that might change his nature, there's the question.
How to cut off some charge in legacies.
How wildly then walks my estate in France!
However he puts on this tardy form.
Howling and shrieking. When these prodigies
Hubert shall be your man, attend on you
Husband, I cannot pray that thou mayst win;
I Pandulph, of fair Milan cardinal,
I am a scribbled form drawn with a pen
I am afraid; and yet I'll venture it.
I am amaz'd, methinks, and lose my way
I am ashamed I did yield to them.
I am no orator, as Brutus is;
I am no woman, I'll not swoon at it.
I am not glad that such a sore of time
I am not mad-I would to heaven I were!
I am not mad: this hair I tear is mine;
I am not mad; too well, too well I feel
I am the cygnet to this pale faint swan
I am the son of Marcus Cato, ho!
I am the son of Marcus Cato, ho!
I am to blame to be thus waited for.
I am too high-born to be propertied,
I am with both: each army hath a hand;
I beg cold comfort; and you are so strait
I can o'ersway him, for he loves to hear
I can shake off at pleasure.                  Thunder still.
I can with ease translate it to my will;
I cannot tell what you and other men
I cannot, by the progress of the stars,
I charm you, by my once commended beauty,
I come not, friends, to steal away your hearts.
I come one way of the Plantagenets.
I come to bury Caesar, not to praise him.
I come to fetch you to the Senate House.
I come, to learn how you have dealt for him;
I conjure thee but slowly; run more fast.                  Exeunt
I could be merry now. Hubert, I love thee.
I could give better comfort than you do.
I dare assure thee that no enemy
I did not think to be so sad to-night
I did suppose it should be on constraint;
I do appoint him store of provender.
I do believe that these applauses are
I do bequeath my faithful services
I do beseech ye, if you bear me hard,
I do desire no more.
I do entreat you, not a man depart,
I do not know the man I should avoid
I do protest I never lov'd myself
I do suspect thee very grievously.
I doubt he will be dead or ere I come.                     Exeunt
I draw a sword against conspirators;
I faintly broke with thee of Arthur's death;
I fear I wrong the honorable men
I fear our purpose is discovered.
I fear there will a worse come in his place.
I find the people strangely fantasied;
I found it in his closet, 'tis his will.
I found no man but he was true to me.
I grant I am a woman, but withal
I grant I am a woman, but withal
I had a thing to say-but let it go:
I had as lief not be as live to be
I had rather be a dog, and bay the moon,
I have a king's oath to the contrary.
I have a man's mind, but a woman's might.
I have a way to will their loves again;
I have an hour's talk in store for you;
I have made strong proof of my constancy,
I have no will to wander forth of doors,
I have not from your eyes that gentleness
I have not known when his affections sway'd
I have not slept.
I have o'ershot myself to tell you of it.
I have possess'd you with, and think them strong;
I have seen tempests when the scolding winds
I have the patience to endure it now.
I hear a tongue, shriller than all the music,
I heard a bustling rumor like a fray,
I here discard my sickness! Soul of Rome!
I honour'd him, I lov'd him, and will weep
I idly heard-if true or false I know not.
I kill'd not thee with half so good a will.            Dies.
I knit my handkerchief about your brows-
I know my hour is come.
I know no personal cause to spurn at him,
I know not, gentlemen, what you intend,
I know she is not; for this match made up
I know young bloods look for a time of rest.
I leave your Highness. Grandam, I will pray,
I left him almost speechless and broke out
I left him well.
I may do that I shall be sorry for.
I may not go without you to the kings.
I must be brief, lest resolution drop
I never thought him worse.
I ought to know of; and, upon my knees,
I prithee, Strato, stay thou by thy lord.
I prithee, lady, go away with me.
I put it in the pocket of my gown.
I rather tell thee what is to be fear'd
I said, an elder soldier, not a better.
I saw a smith stand with his hammer, thus,
I say again, if Lewis do will the day,
I see a yielding in the looks of France;
I shall be glad to learn of noble men.
I shall be satisfied.
I shall beseech him to befriend himself.
I shall find time, Cassius, I shall find time.
I shall have glory by this losing day,
I shall indue you with. Meantime but ask
I shall not find myself so apt to die;
I shall not know him. Therefore never, never
I shall recount hereafter; for this present,
I shall unfold to thee, as we are going
I shall yield up my crown let him be hang'd.
I should be as merry as the day is long;
I should do Brutus wrong and Cassius wrong,
I should not know you, Brutus. Dear my lord,
I slew the coward, and did take it from him.
I speak not to disprove what Brutus spoke,
I spurn thee like a cur out of my way.
I tell you that which you yourselves do know;
I think he will stand very strong with us.
I think it is the weakness of mine eyes
I thrice presented him a kingly crown,
I tore them from their bonds, and cried aloud
I trouble thee too much, but thou art willing.
I trust I may not trust thee, for thy word
I turn the trouble of my countenance
I urged you further; then you scratch'd your head,
I warrant I love you more than you do me.
I was born free as Caesar, so were you;
I was not born to die on Brutus' sword.
I were your son, so you would love me, Hubert.
I will be good to thee.                   Music, and a song.
I will both hear and grant you your requests.
I will come home to you, or, if you will,
I will consider; what you have to say
I will enforce it eas'ly to my love.
I will instruct my sorrows to be proud,
I will myself into the pulpit first,
I will not come today. Tell them so, Decius.
I will not do thee so much wrong to wake thee.
I will not do them wrong; I rather choose
I will not hold thee long. If I do live,
I will not keep this form upon my head,
I will not stir, nor wince, nor speak a word,
I will not struggle, I will stand stone-still.
I will proclaim my name about the field.
I will upon all hazards well believe
I will with patience hear, and find a time
I wonder none of you have thought of him.
I would into thy bosom pour my thoughts.
I would it were my fault to sleep so soundly.
I would not care, I then would be content;
I would not have believ'd him-no tongue but Hubert's.
I would not have you, lord, forget yourself,
I would not, so with love I might entreat you,
I'll fill these dogged spies with false reports;
I'll find a thousand shifts to get away.
I'll get me to a place more void and there
I'll have them sleep on cushions in my tent.
I'll leave you.
I'll make a peace between your soul and you.
I'll not endure it. You forget yourself
I'll send those powers o'er to your Majesty.
I'll strike thee dead. Put up thy sword betime;
I'll take it from thee; and, good boy, good night.
I'll tell thee, Hubert, half my power this night,
I'll use you for my mirth, yea, for my laughter,
I, as Aeneas our great ancestor
I, by the honour of my marriage-bed,
I, that denied thee gold, will give my heart.
If Brutus so unkindly knock'd, or no;
If Brutus will vouchsafe that Antony
If Caesar carelessly but nod on him.
If Caesar hide himself, shall they not whisper
If Cassius might have ruled.
If England to itself do rest but true.                     Exeunt
If I could pray to move, prayers would move me;
If I get down and do not break my limbs,
If I know this, know all the world besides,
If I myself, there is no hour so fit
If I were Brutus now and he were Cassius,
If I were mad I should forget my son,
If Lewis by your assistance win the day.
If at Philippi we do face him there,
If ever I remember to be holy,
If he do break the smallest particle
If he improve them, may well stretch so far
If he love Caesar, all that he can do
If he see aught in you that makes him like,
If he should stay at home today for fear.
If heaven be pleas'd that you must use me ill,
If it be aught toward the general good,
If it were so, it was a grievous fault,
If not fill up the measure of her will,
If not, 'tis true this parting was well made.
If not, the Fates with traitors do contrive.           Exit.
If not, when you have stomachs.
If not, why then this parting was well made.
If that be true, I shall see my boy again;
If that it be the work of any hand.
If that thou best a Roman, take it forth;
If that young Arthur be not gone already,
If the redress will follow, thou receivest
If then thy spirit look upon us now,
If these be motives weak, break off betimes,
If they miscarry, we miscarry too.
If this same were a churchyard where we stand,
If thou but frown on me, or stir thy foot,
If thou dost bend and pray and fawn for him,
If thou dost nod, thou break'st thy instrument;
If thou read this, O Caesar, thou mayest live;
If thou stand excommunicate and curs'd?
If thou vouchsafe them. But if not, then know
If we do lose this battle, then is this
If we do meet again, we'll smile indeed;
If we do meet again, why, we shall smile;
If what in rest you have in right you hold,
If you dare fight today, come to the field;
If you do find them deck'd with ceremonies.
If you give place to accidental evils.
If you say ay, the King will not say no.                   Exeunt
If you shall send them word you will not come,
If you think meet, this afternoon will post
Ill spirit, I would hold more talk with thee.
Immediately to us.             Exeunt Lucilius and Titinius.
In Parthia did I take thee prisoner,
In Pompey's Porch. For now, this fearful night,
In at his window; set this up with wax
In awe of such a thing as I myself.
In every place save here in Italy.
In every wound of Caesar that should move
In faint retire. O, bravely came we off,
In favor's like the work we have in hand,
In his own change, or by ill officers,
In lieu whereof, I pray you, bear me hence
In likeness of a new untrimmed bride.
In mortal fury half so peremptory
In my oration, how the people take
In our black sentence and proscription.
In our own proper entrails.                     Low alarums.
In peace, and part this body and my soul
In personal action, yet prodigious grown
In ranks and squadrons and right form of war,
In several hands, in at his windows throw,
In sooth, I would you were a little sick,
In spite of spite, alone upholds the day.
In states unborn and accents yet unknown!
In such a love so vile a lout as he.
In terms of friendship with thine enemies.
In the disposing of new dignities.
In the fair multitude of those her hairs!
In the same pulpit whereto I am going,
In the vile prison of afflicted breath.
In their continuance will not feel themselves.
In this I bury all unkindness, Cassius.              Drinks.
In this which he accounts so clearly won.
In titles, honours, and promotions,
In undeserved extremes. See else yourself:
In vaults and prisons, and to thrill and shake
In which so many smiling Romans bathed,
Incenses them to send destruction.
Ingratitude, more strong than traitors' arms,
Insinuation, parley, and base truce,
Into his ears. I may say "thrusting" it,
Into the channel, till the lowest stream
Into the law of children. Be not fond
Into the marketplace. There shall I try,
Into the purse of rich prosperity
Is 'husband' in my mouth! even for that name,
Is Decius Brutus and Trebonius there?
Is all too wanton and too full of gawds
Is as a fiend confin'd to tyrannize
Is bound in shallows and in miseries.
Is but the vain breath of a common man:
Is cold in amity and painted peace,
Is fled to heaven; and England now is left
Is guilty of a several bastardy
Is in thyself rebellion to thyself;
Is it as he will? Well then, France shall rue.
Is it excepted I should know no secrets
Is it my fault that I was Geffrey's son?
Is like to lay upon us.
Is much more general than these lines import.
Is not amiss when it is truly done;
Is not the Lady Constance in this troop?
Is not to walk in.
Is not tomorrow, boy, the ides of March?
Is notwithstanding up. Good morrow, Antony.
Is now become a god, and Cassius is
Is now in England ransacking the Church,
Is ours already, and the man entire
Is overthrown by noble Brutus' power,
Is purchase of a heavy curse from Rome
Is scattered and disjoin'd from fellowship.
Is stopp'd with dust: the first of April died
Is this a holiday? What, know you not,
Is to be made, then shall this hand and seal
Is to himself, take thought and die for Caesar.
Is to mistake again; though indirect,
Is touch'd corruptibly, and his pure brain.
Is warlike John; and in his forehead sits
Is wasteful and ridiculous excess.
Is yet a maiden and an innocent hand,
Is yet the cover of a fairer mind
It cannot be; thou dost but say 'tis so;
It comes upon me. Art thou anything?
It did not lie there when I went to bed.
It is a creature that I teach to fight,
It is a deed in fashion. Hark thee, Clitus.        Whispers.
It is impossible that ever Rome
It is more worthy to leap in ourselves
It is not for your health thus to commit
It is not meet you know how Caesar loved you.
It is not so; thou hast misspoke, misheard;
It is our safety, and we must embrace
It is religion that doth make vows kept;
It is the bright day that brings forth the adder
It is the part of men to fear and tremble
It is the shameful work of Hubert's hand;
It makes the course of thoughts to fetch about,
It may be I shall otherwise bethink me.
It may be I shall raise you by and by
It may be these apparent prodigies,
It may lie gently at the foot of peace
It proves not so. Their battles are at hand;
It seems to me most strange that men should fear
It shall advantage more than do us wrong.
It shall be said his judgement ruled our hands;
It useth an enforced ceremony.
It was a vision fair and fortunate.
It will inflame you, it will make you mad.
It will not let you eat, nor talk, nor sleep,
It would allay the burning quality
It would become me better than to close
It would not out at windows nor at doors.
John hath seiz'd Arthur; and it cannot be
John lays you plots; the times conspire with you;
John, to stop Arthur's tide in the whole,
Join'd with a masker and a reveler!
Judge, O you gods, how dearly Caesar loved him!
Keep Stephen Langton, chosen Archbishop
Keep my need up, and faith is trodden down!
Kill Brutus, and be honor'd in his death.
Kind souls, what weep you when you but behold
King John did fly an hour or two before
Kneeling before this ruin of sweet life,
Knew you not Pompey? Many a time and oft
Know I these men that come along with you?
Know you how much the people may be moved
Know, Caesar doth not wrong, nor without cause
Labio and Flavio, set our battles on.
Lame, foolish, crooked, swart, prodigious,
Last in the field and almost lords of it!
Law cannot give my child his kingdom here,
Layest thou thy leaden mace upon my boy
Leap in with me into this angry flood
Leave me with haste. [Exit Portia.] Lucius, who's that knocks?
Leaves them invisible, and his siege is now
Leaving our rankness and irregular course,
Led by the Dauphin.
Lend me your hand.                Exeunt with Caesar's body.
Lest I be laugh'd at when I tell them so.
Lest I, by marking of your rage, forget
Lest it discomfort us. Lucilius, come,
Lest that their hopes prodigiously be cross'd;
Lest zeal, now melted by the windy breath
Let Antony and Caesar fall together.
Let Lucius and Titinius guard our door.             Exeunt.
Let but the commons hear this testament-
Let each man render me his bloody hand.
Let go the hand of that arch-heretic,
Let hell want pains enough to torture me!
Let him come back, that his compassion may
Let in that amity which you have made;
Let it appear so, make your vaunting true,
Let it be lawful that law bar no wrong;
Let it not, Brutus.
Let kings assemble; for my grief's so great
Let me a little show it, even in this;
Let me have audience: I am sent to speak.
Let me not hinder, Cassius, your desires;
Let me not hold my tongue, let me not, Hubert;
Let me see, let me see; is not the leaf turn'd down
Let me wipe off this honourable dew
Let me work;
Let me, upon my knee, prevail in this.
Let not our looks put on our purposes,
Let not the hours of this ungodly day
Let not the world see fear and sad distrust
Let them set on at once, for I perceive
Let us be sacrificers, but not butchers, Caius.
Let us not wrangle. Bid them move away;
Let's all cry, "Peace, freedom, and liberty!"
Let's carve him as a dish fit for the gods,
Let's kill him boldly, but not wrathfully;
Let's reason with the worst that may befall.
Lewis marry Blanch! O boy, then where art thou?
Lie at the proud foot of a conqueror,
Lies heavy on me. O, my heart is sick!
Lies in his bed, walks up and down with me,
Life is as tedious as a twice-told tale
Lift up thy brow, renowned Salisbury,
Like Amazons, come tripping after drums,
Like a Colossus, and we petty men
Like a kind host, the Dauphin and his powers.
Like a phantasma or a hideous dream;
Like a poor beggar raileth on the rich.
Like a proud river peering o'er his bounds?
Like heralds 'twixt two dreadful battles set.
Like rivers of remorse and innocency.
Like to a little kingdom, suffers then
Like to the empty ass, to shake his ears
Like true, inseparable, faithful loves,
Like twenty torches join'd, and yet his hand
Like wrath in death and envy afterwards;
Lions more confident, mountains and rocks
Lions with toils, and men with flatterers;
Listen great things. Brutus and Cassius
Lives in his eye; that close aspect of his
Lives in this bosom, dearly cherished.
Lo, by my troth, the instrument is cold
Look Lucius, here's the book I sought for so;
Look to thyself, thou art in jeopardy.
Look whe'er he have not crown'd dead Cassius!
Look where the holy legate comes apace,
Look who comes here! a grave unto a soul;
Look,
Look, in this place ran Cassius' dagger through;
Looks in the clouds, scorning the base degrees
Looks with such ferret and such fiery eyes
Love, and be friends, as two such men should be;
Lovers in peace, lead on our days to age!
Low-crooked court'sies, and base spaniel-fawning.
Lucius, awake!
Made hard with kneeling, I do pray to thee,
Made in her concave shores?
Made it no conscience to destroy a prince.
Made to run even upon even ground,
Make deeds ill done! Hadst not thou been by,
Make forth, the generals would have some words.
Make gallant show and promise of their mettle;
Make me acquainted with your cause of grief.
Make such unconstant children of ourselves,
Makes it take head from all indifferency,
Makes me forgetful?
Makes nice of no vile hold to stay him up;
Makes sound opinion sick, and truth suspected,
Making that idiot, laughter, keep men's eyes
Many a poor man's son would have lyen still,
March gently on to meet him.
Mark Antony is in your tents, my lord;
Mark Antony shall not love Caesar dead
Mark Antony, so well beloved of Caesar,
Mark him and write his speeches in their books,
Mark how the blood of Caesar follow'd it,
Mark how they whisper. Urge them while their souls
Married in league, coupled and link'd together
May hold him from the Capitol today.
May know wherefore we took the sacrament,
May safely come to him and be resolved
May then make all the claim that Arthur did.
Mean to establish Caesar as a king,
Meet in one line; and vast confusion waits,
Meet to be sent on errands. Is it fit,
Men all in fire walk up and down the streets.
Men at some time are masters of their fates:
Men, wives, and children stare, cry out, and run
Merely upon myself. Vexed I am
Messala, I have here received letters
Metellus Cimber throws before thy seat
Methinks I see this hurly all on foot;
Methinks no body should be sad but I;
Might fire the blood of ordinary men
Millions of mischiefs.                               Exeunt.
Mine speak of seventy senators that died
Mistrust of my success hath done this deed.
Mocking the air with colours idly spread,
More free from motion-no, not Death himself
More than Octavius and Mark Antony
More than his reason. But 'tis a common proof
More upon humour than advis'd respect.
Most bloody, fiery, and most terrible.
Most like a soldier, ordered honorably.
Most like this dreadful night,
Most noble! In the presence of thy corse?
Mount thou my horse and hide thy spurs in him,
Much danger do I undergo for thee.                         Exeunt
Musing and sighing, with your arms across;
Must I behold my pretty Arthur more.
Must I give way and room to your rash choler?
Must I observe you? Must I stand and crouch
Must be boisterously maintain'd as gain'd,
Must by the hungry now be fed upon.
Must end that work the ides of March begun.
Must needs want pleading for a pair of eyes.
Must you with hot irons burn out both mine eyes?
My ancestors did from the streets of Rome
My answer must be made. But I am arm'd,
My arm shall give thee help to bear thee hence;
My credit now stands on such slippery ground,
My crown I should give off? Even so I have.
My date of life out for his sweet life's loss.
My discontented peers! What! mother dead!
My gown.                                        Exit Lucius.
My head with more ill news, for it is fun.
My heart doth joy that yet in all my life
My heart hath melted at a lady's tears,
My heart hath one poor string to stay it by,
My heart is in the coffin there with Caesar,
My heart laments that virtue cannot live
My holy lord of Milan, from the King
My innocent life against an emperor.
My liege! my lord! But now a king-now thus.
My life is run his compass. Sirrah, what news?
My life, my joy, my food, my ail the world!
My mortified spirit. Now bid me run,
My mother is assailed in our tent,
My name is Constance; I was Geffrey's wife;
My nobles leave me; and my state is braved,
My reasonable part produces reason
My reverend father, let it not be so!
My sight was ever thick; regard Titinius,
My spirit from mine eyes! There is my dagger,
My tongue shall hush again this storm of war
My uncle practises more harm to me;
My widow-comfort, and my sorrows' cure!                      Exit
Myself have to mine own turn'd enemy.
Myself, well-mounted, hardly have escap'd.
Nature and Fortune join'd to make thee great:
Nay, after that, consume away in rust
Nay, hear me, Hubert! Drive these men away,
Nay, in the body of the fleshly land,
Nay, it perchance will sparkle in your eyes,
Nay, rather turn this day out of the week,
Nay, you may think my love was crafty love,
Ne'er look'd but on my back; when they shall see
Never come such division 'tween our souls!
Never lacks power to dismiss itself.
Never to be infected with delight,
Never to taste the pleasures of the world,
Never, till Caesar's three and thirty wounds
Next, Caius Cassius, do I take your hand;
Night hangs upon mine eyes, my bones would rest
No Rome of safety for Octavius yet;
No bargains break that are not this day made;
No certain life achiev'd by others' death.
No common wind, no customed event,
No longer than we well could wash our hands,
No natural exhalation in the sky,
No place will please me so, no means of death,
No scope of nature, no distemper'd day,
No worthier than the dust!
No, Caesar shall not. Danger knows full well
No, indeed, ist not; and I would to heaven
No, no, on my soul, it never shall be said.
No, no; when Fortune means to men most good,
No. Know the gallant monarch is in arms
Nor airless dungeon, nor strong links of iron
Nor construe any further my neglect
Nor conversant with ease and idleness,
Nor let my kingdom's rivers take their course
Nor look upon the iron angrily;
Nor met with fortune other than at feasts,
Nor stony tower, nor walls of beaten brass,
Nor tempt the danger of my true defence;
Nor the insuppressive mettle of our spirits,
Nor to no Roman else. So tell them, Publius.
Nor with such free and friendly conference,
Not Erebus itself were dim enough
Not hew him as a carcass fit for hounds;
Not knowing what they fear, but full of fear;
Not painted with the crimson spots of blood.
Not sensible of fire remain'd unscorch'd.
Not that I have the power to clutch my hand
Not truly speaks; who speaks not truly, lies.
Not trusting to this halting legate here,
Now I have taken heart thou vanishest.
Now be a freeman, and with this good sword,
Now could I, Casca, name to thee a man
Now for the bare-pick'd bone of majesty
Now happy he whose cloak and cincture can
Now hear me speak with a prophetic spirit;
Now is it Rome indeed, and room enough,
Now know you, Casca, I have moved already
Now powers from home and discontents at home
Now sit we close about this taper here,
Now that their souls are topful of offence.
Now these her princes are come home again,
Now! What says the world
Now, Cinna; now, Metellus; what, Trebonius,
Now, Decius Brutus, yours; now yours, Metellus;
Now, Titinius! Now some light. O, he lights too.
Now, in the names of all the gods at once,
Now, now, you stars that move in your right spheres,
Now, whilst your purpled hands do reek and smoke,
O Caesar!                                     Sees the body.
O Caesar! These things are beyond all use,
O Cassius, if you could
O Cassius, you are yoked with a lamb,
O Lord! my boy, my Arthur, my fair son!
O Lymoges! O Austria! thou dost shame
O constancy, be strong upon my side!
O hateful error, melancholy's child,
O husband, hear me! ay, alack, how new
O insupportable and touching loss!
O judgement, thou art fled to brutish beasts,
O masters! If I were disposed to stir
O me! my uncle's spirit is in these stones.
O my gentle cousin,
O that my tongue were in the thunder's mouth!
O then, tread down my need, and faith mounts up:
O world, thou wast the forest to this hart,
O you hard hearts, you cruel men of Rome,
O'erbearing interruption, spite of France?
O, answer not; but to my closet bring
O, come to me!
O, coward that I am, to live so long,
O, if I could, what grief should I forget!
O, let it not be said! Forage, and run
O, let me have no subject enemies
O, make a league with me, till I have pleas'd
O, now you weep, and I perceive you feel
O, that we then could come by Caesar's spirit,
O, two such silver currents, when they join,
O, what a fall was there, my countrymen!
O, what a noble combat hast thou fought
O, you and I have heard our fathers say
Octavius, Antony, and Lepidus
Of Arthur, whom they say is kill'd to-night
Of Caesar's death.
Of Canterbury, from that holy see?
Of Nature's gifts thou mayst with lilies boast,
Of all his people and freeze up their zeal,
Of all his people shall revolt from him,
Of all the wonders that I yet have heard,
Of any bold or noble enterprise,
Of any kindred action like to this?
Of any promise that hath pass'd from him.
Of bragging horror; so shall inferior eyes,
Of brothers' temper, do receive you in
Of dangerous majesty, when perchance it frowns
Of fantasy, of dreams, and ceremonies.
Of half that worth as those your swords, made rich
Of hoarding abbots; imprisoned angels
Of honorable-dangerous consequence;
Of kings, of beggars, old men, young men, maids,
Of late with passions of some difference,
Of marching to Philippi presently?
Of mercy, if thou didst this deed of death,
Of murder's arms; this is the bloodiest shame,
Of plain old form is much disfigured;
Of senators, of praetors, common suitors,
Of smiling peace to march a bloody host,
Of soft petitions, pity, and remorse,
Of stern injustice and confused wrong.
Of that fell poison which assaileth him.
Of that quick spirit that is in Antony.
Of the dank morning? What, is Brutus sick,
Of the old, feeble, and day-wearied sun,
Of thine affairs as well as thou of mine?
Of this most fair occasion, by the which
Of true sincerity? O, holy sir,
Of whose true-fix'd and resting quality
Of your dear mother England, blush for shame;
Of your good pleasure? If it be no more,
Of your profession? Speak, what trade art thou?
Offending charity; if but a dozen French
Old feeble carrions and such suffering souls
Older in practice, abler than yourself
Omitted, all the voyage of their life
On business to my brother Cassius.
On objects, arts, and imitations,
On such a full sea are we now afloat,
On their departure most of all show evil;
On this Ascension-day, remember well,
On this side Tiber; he hath left them you,
On unreprievable condemned blood.
On yon young boy. I'll tell thee what, my friend,
On your suggestion.
One minute, nay, one quiet breath of rest.
One of the three to share it?
Only for wantonness. By my christendom,
Oppress'd with wrongs, and therefore full of fears;
Or 'What good love may I perform for you?'
Or I'll so maul you and your toasting-iron
Or as a little snow, tumbled about,
Or do you almost think, although you see,
Or else the world too saucy with the gods
Or else you use not. You look pale and gaze
Or have you read or heard, or could you think?
Or if that surly spirit, melancholy,
Or if that thou couldst see me without eyes,
Or if you will, to speak more properly,
Or let the church, our mother, breathe her curse-
Or lose our ventures.
Or madly think a babe of clouts were he.
Or overthrow incurable ensues.
Or shall we on, and not depend on you?
Or teach thy hasty spleen to do me shame,
Or the light loss of England for a friend.
Or turn'd an eye of doubt upon my face,
Or useful serving-man and instrument
Or, Hubert, if you will, cut out my tongue,
Or, by the gods, this speech were else your last.
Or, if he do, let it at least be said
Or, if it must stand still, let wives with child
Our Caesar's vesture wounded? Look you here,
Our arms in strength of malice, and our hearts
Our army lies, ready to give up the ghost.
Our best friends made, our means stretch'd;
Our discontented counties do revolt;
Our ears are cudgell'd; not a word of his
Our enemies have beat us to the pit;            Low alarums.
Our hearts you see not; they are pitiful;
Our legions are brim-full, our cause is ripe:
Our party may well meet a prouder foe.                     Exeunt
Our people quarrel with obedience,
Our purpose necessary and not envious,
Our reasons are so full of good regard
Our yoke and sufferance show us womanish.
Our youths and wildness shall no whit appear,
Ourselves well sinewed to our defence.
Out at mine eyes in tender womanish tears.-
Out of his rags! Here's a large mouth, indeed,
Out of my sight, and never see me more!
Out of the bloody fingers' ends of john.
Out of the path which shall directly lead
Out of the teeth of emulation.
Out of the weak door of our fainting land.
Out of your grace, devise, ordain, impose,
Over thy wounds now do I prophesy
Over your friend that loves you.
Pardon me, Caesar, for my dear dear love
Pardon me, Julius! Here wast thou bay'd, brave hart,
Passing these flats, are taken by the tide-
Passion, I see, is catching, for mine eyes,
Patch'd with foul moles and eye-offending marks,
Paying the fine of rated treachery
Perchance the Cardinal cannot make your peace;
Philip of France, if thou be pleas'd withal,
Plainly denouncing vengeance upon John.
Play fast and loose with faith? so jest with heaven,
Plead for our interest and our being here.
Plucking the entrails of an offering forth,
Poictiers, and Anjou, these five provinces,
Poor knave, I blame thee not, thou art o'erwatch'd.
Poor man! I know he would not be a wolf
Pope Innocent, I do demand of thee.
Popilius Lena speaks not of our purposes;
Portia is Brutus' harlot, not his wife.
Possess'd with rumours, full of idle dreams.
Pour down thy weather-how goes all in France?
Pray that their burdens may not fall this day,
Pray to the gods to intermit the plague
Preach some philosophy to make me mad,
Prepare to lodge their companies tonight.
Presented thee more hideous than thou art.
Presented to the tears of soft remorse.
Produce his body to the marketplace,
Proves valueless; you are forsworn, forsworn;
Purchase corrupted pardon of a man,
Put but a little water in a spoon
Put on my brows this wreath of victory,
Puts on his pretty looks, repeats his words,
Quite from the main opinion he held once
Quite through the deeds of men. He loves no plays,
Quite vanquish'd him. Then burst his mighty heart,
Quoted and sign'd to do a deed of shame,
Read here, young Arthur.                        [Showing a paper]
Read the will!
Recounts most horrid sights seen by the watch.
Remember that you call on me today;
Remember. Madam, fare you well;
Remembers me of all his gracious parts,
Remorse from power, and, to speak truth of Caesar,
Render me worthy of this noble wife! Knocking within.
Repair to Pompey's Porch, where you shall find us.
Resembling majesty, which, being touch'd and tried,
Resolveth from his figure 'gainst the fire?
Rests by you only to be qualified.
Retaining but a quantity of life,
Return and tell him so. We know the worst.
Return the precedent to these lords again,
Revenge yourselves alone on Cassius,
Reviving blood, and that great men shall press
Ride, ride, Messala. Let them all come down.         Exeunt.
Right in thine eye. Away, my friends! New flight,
Romans, countrymen, and lovers! Hear me for my cause, and be
Rome, thou hast lost the breed of noble bloods!
Run hence, proclaim, cry it about the streets.
Run to the Capitol, and nothing else?
Run to your houses, fall upon your knees,
Run, Lucius, and commend me to my lord;
Rushing on us should do your age some mischief.
Save I alone, till Antony have spoke.                  Exit.
Save what is opposite to England's love.
Say I am merry. Come to me again,
Say I fear'd Caesar, honor'd him, and loved him.
Say I love Brutus and I honor him;
Say that before Ascension-day at noon
Saying 'What lack you?' and 'Where lies your grief?'
Searching the window for a flint I found
Second a villain and a murderer?
See Brutus at his house. Three parts of him
See what a rent the envious Casca made;
See whether their basest metal be not moved;
See, Antony, that revels long o' nights,
Seeing that death, a necessary end,
Seeing those beads of sorrow stand in thine,
Seek out King John, and fall before his feet;
Seldom he smiles, and smiles in such a sort
Send fair-play orders, and make compromise,
Send him but hither, and I'll fashion him.
Send word to you he would be there tomorrow.
Set a huge mountain 'tween my heart and tongue!
Set armed discord 'twixt these perjur'd kings!
Set at liberty; the fat ribs of peace
Set honor in one eye and death i' the other
Set in a notebook, learn'd and conn'd by rote,
Set on toward Swinstead; to my litter straight;
Sh' adulterates hourly with thine uncle John,
Shake off their sterile curse.
Shakes like a thing unfirm? O Cicero,
Shaking the bloody fingers of thy foes,
Shall I be frighted when a madman stares?
Shall I descend? And will you give me leave?
Shall Lewis have Blanch, and Blanch those provinces?
Shall Rome stand under one man's awe? What, Rome?
Shall Rome, etc. Speak, strike, redress!"
Shall be as welcome to the ears of Brutus
Shall be crown'd in Brutus.
Shall blow each dust, each straw, each little rub,
Shall braying trumpets and loud churlish drums,
Shall cumber all the parts of Italy;
Shall ever take alive the noble Brutus;
Shall find but bloody safety and untrue.
Shall gild her bridal bed, and make her rich
Shall give a holiness, a purity,
Shall in these confines with a monarch's voice
Shall it not grieve thee dearer than thy death
Shall never see it but a holiday.
Shall that victorious hand be feebled here
Shall this our lofty scene be acted over
Shall tithe or toll in our dominions;
Shall wait upon your father's funeral.
Shall we, upon the footing of our land,
Shamest thou to show thy dangerous brow by night,
She dreamt tonight she saw my statue,
She is corrupted, chang'd, and won from thee;
She looks upon them with a threat'ning eye.
Should I have answer'd Caius Cassius so?
Should breed thy fellow. Friends, I owe moe tears
Should chance-
Should outlive Caesar. We shall find of him
Should scape the true acquaintance of mine ear.
Should seek a plaster by contemn'd revolt,
Show boldness and aspiring confidence.
Show you sweet Caesar's wounds, poor dumb mouths,
Shrunk to this little measure? Fare thee well.
Sign'd in thy spoil, and crimson'd in thy Lethe.
Signifies that from you great Rome shall suck
Since Cassius first did whet me against Caesar
Since I first call'd my brother's father dad.
Since I must lose the use of all deceit?
Since all and every part of what we would
Since it hath been beforehand with our griefs.
Since kings break faith upon commodity,
Sink in the trial. Comes his army on?
Slay! Let not a traitor live!
Sleek-headed men, and such as sleep o' nights:
Snatch at his master that doth tarre him on.
So I may keep mine eyes. O, spare mine eyes,
So I were out of prison and kept sheep,
So are they all, all honorable men-
So are we Caesar's friends that have abridged
So be it, for it cannot be but so.
So call the field to rest, and let's away,
So do you too, where you perceive them thick.
So every bondman in his own hand bears
So foul a sky clears not without a storm.
So get the start of the majestic world
So heavy as thou shalt not shake them off,
So hot a speed with such advice dispos'd,
So in his red blood Cassius' day is set,
So in the world, 'tis furnish'd well with men,
So let high-sighted tyranny range on
So let it be with Caesar. The noble Brutus
So mix'd in him that Nature might stand up
So much as frown on you?
So newly join'd in love, so strong in both,
So often shall the knot of us be call'd
So shall he waste his means, weary his soldiers,
So slight, unworthy, and ridiculous,
So soon as that spare Cassius. He reads much,
So strongly guarded.  [To ARTHUR]  Cousin, look not sad;
So tell the Pope, all reverence set apart
So thrive it in your game! and so, farewell.
So vile a thing as Caesar? But, O grief,
So we could find some pattern of our shame.
So well as Brutus living, but will follow
So well as by reflection, I your glass
So wilfully dost spurn; and force perforce
So, fare you well at once, for Brutus' tongue
So, under Him that great supremacy,
Some airy devil hovers in the sky
Some certain of the noblest-minded Romans
Some gentle order; and then we shall be blest
Some messenger betwixt me and the peers;
Some six or seven, who did hide their faces
Some speedy messenger bid her repair
Some two months hence up higher toward the north
Sound but another, and another shall,
Sound on into the drowsy race of night;
Sound them, it doth become the mouth as well;
Speak in the order of his funeral.
Speak to great Caesar as he comes along.               Exit.
Speak to me what thou art.
Speak your griefs softly, I do know you well.
Stand not to answer: here, take thou the hilts;
Standing on slippers, which his nimble haste
Stands as the Capitol, directly here.
Startles and frights consideration,
Startles mine eyes and makes me more amaz'd
Stay not to answer me, but get thee gone.
Stays in his course and plays the alchemist,
Sticking together in calamity.
Still and anon cheer'd up the heavy time,
Stir up their servants to an act of rage
Stole from my bed; and yesternight at supper
Stoop low within those bounds we have o'erlook'd,
Straight let us seek, or straight we shall be sought;
Strato, thou hast been all this while asleep;
Strike up the drums; and let the tongue of war,
Strike, as thou didst at Caesar, for I know,
Strooke Caesar on the neck. O you flatterers!
Stuffs out his vacant garments with his form;
Submitting me unto the perilous night,
Such as he is, full of regard and honor.
Such creatures as men doubt; but do not stain
Such dreadful heralds to astonish us.
Such instigations have been often dropp'd
Such men as he be never at heart's ease
Such men my friends than enemies. Go on,
Such temperate order in so fierce a cause,
Sure, the boy heard me. Brutus hath a suit
Sway'd from the point by looking down on Caesar.
Swear priests and cowards and men cautelous,
Swearing allegiance and the love of soul
Sweat in this business and maintain this war?
Take thou what course thou wilt.
Take up the body.
Talks as familiarly of roaring lions
Teach thou this sorrow how to make me die;
Tell him this tale, and from the mouth of England
Tell him, so please him come unto this place,
Tell me your counsels, I will not disclose 'em.
Tell me, good Brutus, can you see your face?
Tell me, thou fellow, is not France forsworn?
Tending to Caesar's glories, which Mark Antony,
Th' enfranchisement of Arthur, whose restraint
Th' uncleanly savours of a slaughter-house;
Than I have nam'd! The bastard Faulconbridge
Than I will wrong such honorable men.
Than arm thy constant and thy nobler parts
Than did the fault before it was so patch'd.
Than ever thou lovedst Cassius.
Than had I seen the vaulty top of heaven
Than honesty to honesty engaged
Than if you had at leisure known of this.
Than keep in peace that hand which thou dost hold.
Than secret Romans that have spoke the word
Than such a Roman.
Than tarry till they push us. Good Volumnius,
Than that poor Brutus with himself at war
Than this: that nothing do I see in you-
Than to be butcher of an innocent child.
Than to repute himself a son of Rome
Than what I fear, for always I am Caesar.
Than when you left him; even now he sung.
Than whereupon our weal, on you depending,
That Antony speak in his funeral.
That Brutus leads me on.
That Caesar and his Senate must redress?
That Caesar is more dangerous than he.
That Caesar looks so sad.
That Caesar will not grant. O, I grow faint.
That Hubert, for the wealth of all the world,
That I am meek and gentle with these butchers!
That I can find should merit any hate.
That I did love thee, Caesar, O, 'tis true!
That I did so when I was first assur'd.
That I do fawn on men and hug them hard
That I have room with Rome to curse awhile!
That I have seen inhabit in those cheeks?
That I might sit all night and watch with you.
That I must die here, and live hence by truth?
That I must draw this metal from my side
That I profess myself in banqueting
That I was constant Cimber should be banish'd,
That John may stand then, Arthur needs must fall;
That Neptune's arms, who clippeth thee about,
That Rome holds of his name, wherein obscurely
That Tiber trembled underneath her banks
That all I see in you is worthy love,
That all my bowels crumble up to dust.
That any accent breaking from thy tongue
That anything he sees which moves his liking
That appertain to you? Am I yourself
That at his will he may do danger with.
That blood which ow'd the breadth of all this isle
That bloody spoil. Thou slave, thou wretch, thou coward!
That borrow their behaviours from the great,
That broker that still breaks the pate of faith,
That brought my answer back. Brutus hath rived my heart.
That by no means I may discover them
That carries anger as the flint bears fire,
That comes in triumph over Pompey's blood?
That could be moved to smile at anything.
That daily break-vow, he that wins of all,
That day he overcame the Nervii.
That did the latest service to my master.
That ever Brutus will go bound to Rome;
That ever lived in the tide of times.
That ever spider twisted from her womb
That ever wall-ey'd wrath or staring rage
That every Roman bears, and nobly bears,
That every nice offense should bear his comment.
That faith would live again by death of need.
That fears him much, and my misgiving still
That fret the clouds are messengers of day.
That gave me public leave to speak of him.
That give you cause to prove my saying true.
That govern us below.
That greatness should so grossly offer it.
That hand which had the strength, even at your door.
That hang'd and drawn and quarter'd there should be
That have but labor'd to attain this hour.
That he is grown so great? Age, thou art shamed!
That he shall not offend your Majesty.
That heaven hath infused them with these spirits
That her wide walls encompass'd but one man?
That in your chambers gave you chastisement?
That is enough to satisfy the Senate.
That is no fleering tell-tale. Hold, my hand.
That is, to be the champion of our Church.
That it in golden letters should be set
That it runs over even at his eyes.
That it yields nought but shame and bitterness.
That keeps you in the house and not your own.
That knit your sinews to the strength of mine.
That leaves the print of blood where'er it walks.
That love my friend, and that they know full well
That lowliness is young ambition's ladder,
That made them do it. They are wise and honorable,
That makest my blood cold and my hair to stare?
That mercy which fierce fire and iron extends,
That might relieve you!
That mothers shall but smile when they behold
That need must needs infer this principle-
That needs must light on this ingratitude.
That never saw the giant world enrag'd,
That no supporter but the huge firm earth
That noble minds keep ever with their likes;
That none so small advantage shall step forth
That nothing can allay, nothing but blood,
That now on Pompey's basis lies along
That of yourself which you yet know not of.
That one of two bad ways you must conceit me,
That other men begin.
That part of tyranny that I do bear
That plays thee music? Gentle knave, good night.
That present med'cine must be minist'red
That ran through Caesar's bowels, search this bosom.
That shakes the rotten carcass of old Death
That shall reverberate all as loud as thine:
That shapes this monstrous apparition.
That should be in a Roman you do want,
That silverly doth progress on thy cheeks.
That smooth-fac'd gentleman, tickling commodity,
That so stood out against the holy Church,
That spits forth death and mountains, rocks and seas;
That struck the foremost man of all this world
That strumpet Fortune, that usurping John!
That such an army could be drawn in France,
That takes away by any secret course
That the time's enemies may not have this
That they pass by me as the idle wind
That this foul deed shall smell above the earth
That this shall be or we will fall for it?
That thou for truth giv'st out are landed here?
That thou hast proved Lucilius' saying true.
That thunders, lightens, opens graves, and roars
That tidings came- with this she fell distract,
That touches Caesar nearer. Read it, great Caesar.
That unassailable holds on his rank,
That undergo this charge? Who else but I,
That unicorns may be betray'd with trees,
That visit my sad heart.
That was expected by the Dauphin here
That we have tried the utmost of our friends,
That we shall die, we know; 'tis but the time
That we shall see and know our friends in heaven;
That we shall stop her exclamation.
That we, the sons and children of this isle,
That welcome wrongs; unto bad causes swear
That were embattailed and rank'd in Kent.
That were you, Antony, the son of Caesar,
That whatsoever I did bid thee do,
That will be thaw'd from the true quality
That yon green boy shall have no sun to ripe
That you do see? Could thought, without this object,
That you have bid us ask his liberty;
That you have no such mirrors as will turn
That you might see your shadow. I have heard
That you shall think the devil is come from hell.
That you unfold to me, yourself, your half,
That you would have me seek into myself
That young Octavius and Mark Antony
That your best friends shall wish I had been further.
That, being brought into the open air,
That, ere the next Ascension-day at noon,
That, for the health and physic of our right,
That, having our fair order written down,
That, like a lion fostered up at hand,
That, whiles warm life plays in that infant's veins,
The Cardinal Pandulph is within at rest,
The Dauphin rages at our very heels.
The French fight coldly, and retire themselves.
The King by me requests your presence straight.
The King doth smile at; and is well prepar'd
The Lady Constance in a frenzy died
The Tarquin drive, when he was call'd a king.
The abuse of greatness is when it disjoins
The ambitious ocean swell and rage and foam
The angry lords with all expedient haste.
The angry spot doth glow on Caesar's brow,
The barren, touched in this holy chase,
The best I had, a princess wrought it me-
The better act of purposes mistook
The better arm you to the sudden time
The blood of malice in a vein of league,
The blood, and dearest-valu'd blood, of France.
The bloom that promiseth a mighty fruit.
The breast of heaven, I did present myself
The breath of heaven hath blown his spirit out,
The choice and master spirits of this age.
The circle of my glory.
The conquerors can but make a fire of him;
The copy of your speed is learn'd by them,
The cruel issue of these bloody men,
The dauntless spirit of resolution.
The day shall not be up so soon as I
The deed which both our tongues held vile to name.
The different plague of each calamity.
The dint of pity. These are gracious drops.
The dreadful motion of a murderous thought
The earth had not a hole to hide this deed.
The end of this day's business ere it come!
The enemies of Caesar shall say this:
The enemy comes on in gallant show;
The enemy increaseth every day;
The enemy, marching along by them,
The eternal devil to keep his state in Rome
The even virtue of our enterprise,
The evil that men do lives after them,
The face of Caesar, they are vanished.
The faiths of men ne'er stained with revolt;
The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars,
The fearful difference of incensed kings.
The first time ever Caesar put it on;
The fit is strongest; evils that take leave
The fortunes and affairs of noble Brutus
The foul corruption of a sweet child's death.
The genius and the mortal instruments
The ghost of Caesar hath appear'd to me
The gods defend him from so great a shame!
The gods today stand friendly that we may,
The good is oft interred with their bones;
The graceless action of a heavy hand,
The grappling vigour and rough frown of war
The great metropolis and see of Rome.
The greater part, the horse in general,
The heart of Brutus yearns to think upon!            Exeunt.
The heart of woman is! O Brutus,
The heavens speed thee in thine enterprise!
The heavens themselves blaze forth the death of princes.
The height, the crest, or crest unto the crest,
The image of a wicked heinous fault
The imminent decay of wrested pomp.
The incense of a vow, a holy vow,
The iron of itself, though heat red-hot,
The last of all the Romans, fare thee well!
The latest breath that gave the sound of words
The life, the right, and truth of all this realm
The lineal state and glory of the land!
The little number of your doubtful friends.
The livelong day with patient expectation
The love of him-and this respect besides,
The meagre cloddy earth to glittering gold.
The melting spirits of women, then, countrymen,
The men that gave their country liberty.
The misplac'd John should entertain an hour,
The mouth of passage shall we fling wide ope
The multitude, beside themselves with fear,
The name of honor more than I fear death.
The nature of an insurrection.
The next is this: King John hath reconcil'd
The noble Brutus, thrusting this report
The noise of battle hurtled in the air,
The old Anchises bear, so from the waves of Tiber
The other four in wondrous motion.
The people 'twixt Philippi and this ground
The peril of our curses fight on thee
The posture of your blows are yet unknown;
The power to cancel his captivity.
The practice and the purpose of the King;
The proof of it will turn to redder drops.
The rich advantage of good exercise?
The rites of marriage shall be solemniz'd.
The sea enraged is not half so deaf,
The secrets of my heart.
The shadow of myself form'd in her eye;
The skies are painted with unnumber'd sparks;
The steps of wrong-should move you to mew up
The stones of Rome to rise and mutiny.
The storm is up, and all is on the hazard.
The stumbling night did part our weary pow'rs?
The sufferance of our souls, the time's abuse-
The suit which you demand is gone and dead:
The sums I have collected shall express.
The sun is in the heaven, and the proud day,
The sun of Rome is set! Our day is gone;
The tackle of my heart is crack'd and burnt,
The things that are not? O error, soon conceived,
The three-fold world divided, he should stand
The throng that follows Caesar at the heels,
The tidings comes that they are all arriv'd.
The time of life- arming myself with patience
The torrent roar'd, and we did buffet it
The troubled Tiber chafing with her shores,
The truth is then most done not doing it;
The unaccustom'd terror of this night,
The unowed interest of proud-swelling state.
The valiant never taste of death but once.
The very last time we shall speak together.
The whilst his iron did on the anvil cool,
The wildest savagery, the vilest stroke,
The world, who of itself is peised well,
The yearly course that brings this day about
The youth says well. Now hear our English King;
Their bloody sign of battle is hung out,
Their infants quarter'd with the hands of war;
Their minds may change. Besides, it were a mock
Their natures, and preformed faculties
Their needles to lances, and their gentle hearts
Their thimbles into armed gauntlets change,
Then I, and you, and all of us fell down,
Then have I reason to be fond of grief.
Then in my tent, Cassius, enlarge your griefs,
Then let the worst, unheard, fall on your head.
Then make a ring about the corse of Caesar,
Then must I think you would not have it so.
Then pause not; for the present time's so sick
Then speak again-not all thy former tale,
Then take we down his load and turn him off,
Then walk we forth, even to the marketplace,
Then with a passion would I shake the world,
Then, feeling what small things are boisterous there,
Then, in a friend, it is cold modesty.
Then, in despite of brooded watchful day,
Then, lest he may, prevent. And, since the quarrel
There are no tricks in plain and simple faith;
There is a soul counts thee her creditor,
There is a tide in the affairs of men
There is no fellow in the firmament.
There is no harm intended to your person,
There is no malice in this burning coal;
There is no more to say?
There is no stir or walking in the streets,
There is no sure foundation set on blood,
There is no terror, Cassius, in your threats,
There is no tongue hath power to curse him right.
There is not yet so ugly a fiend of hell
There is so hot a summer in my bosom
There is some grudge between 'em, 'tis not meet
There was a Brutus once that would have brook'd
There was more foolery yet, if could remember it.
There was not such a gracious creature born.
There's few or none do know me; if they did,
There's two or three of us have seen strange sights.
Therefore 'tis certain he was not ambitious.
Therefore 'twere reason you had manners now.
Therefore I will be sudden and dispatch.
Therefore let our alliance be combined,
Therefore our everlasting farewell take.
Therefore thou sleep'st so sound.
Therefore thy later vows against thy first
Therefore thy threat'ning colours now wind up
Therefore, since law itself is perfect wrong,
Therefore, to arms! be champion of our church,
Therein, ye gods, you make the weak most strong;
Therein, ye gods, you tyrants do defeat.
These Lincoln Washes have devoured them;
These couchings and these lowly courtesies
These eyes that never did nor never shall
These growing feathers pluck'd from Caesar's wing
These people at our back.
They are all fire and every one doth shine;
They are the faction. O Conspiracy,
They be alone.
They could not find a heart within the beast.
They do confound their skill in covetousness;
They fall their crests and like deceitful jades
They mean to warn us at Philippi here,
They saw we had a purpose of defence.
They that have done this deed are honorable.
They vanish tongue-tied in their guiltiness.
They whirl asunder and dismember me.
Things done undone; but if he be at hand,
Think of this life, but, for my single self,
Think you I am no stronger than my sex,
Think you I bear the shears of destiny?
Thinking this voice an armed Englishman-
This England never did, nor never shall,
This act is as an ancient tale new told
This act, so evilly borne, shall cool the hearts
This apish and unmannerly approach,
This bawd, this broker, this all-changing word,
This by Calpurnia's dream is signified.
This day I breathed first: time is come round,
This day of shame, oppression, perjury;
This day, all things begun come to ill end,
This ensign here of mine was turning back;
This friendly treaty of our threat'ned town?
This gentle offer of the perilous time.
This harness'd masque and unadvised revel
This inundation of mistemp'red humour
This is Trebonius.
This is a sleepy tune. O murtherous slumber,
This is my birthday, as this very day
This juggling witchcraft with revenue cherish;
This kingdom, this confine of blood and breath,
This morning are they fled away and gone,
This murder had not come into my mind;
This must be answer'd either here or hence.
This must not be thus borne: this will break out
This news hath made thee a most ugly man.
This news was brought to Richard but even now.
This paper thus seal'd up, and I am sure
This royal hand and mine are newly knit,
This rudeness is a sauce to his good wit,
This ship-boy's semblance hath disguis'd me quite.
This show'r, blown up by tempest of the soul,
This sway of motion, this commodity,
This tongue had not offended so today,
This unhair'd sauciness and boyish troops,
This union shall do more than battery can
This was an ill beginning of the night.
This was the most unkindest cut of all;
This way will I. Disrobe the images
This widow lady? In her right we came;
This, in our foresaid holy father's name,
Thorough the hazards of this untrod state
Thorough the streets of Rome?
Those that will follow Cassius, go with him;
Those that will hear me speak, let 'em stay here;
Those that with haste will make a mighty fire
Thou Fortune's champion that dost never fight
Thou art a fellow of a good respect;
Thou art his keeper.
Thou art more deep damn'd than Prince Lucifer;
Thou art my friend that know'st my tongue so well.
Thou art the ruins of the noblest man
Thou canst not, Cardinal, devise a name
Thou ever strong upon the stronger side!
Thou hast no figures nor no fantasies,
Thou hate and terror to prosperity,
Thou know'st that we two went to school together;
Thou little valiant, great in villainy!
Thou mayst befriend me so much as to think
Thou never comest unto a happy birth,
Thou odoriferous stench! sound rottenness!
Thou seest the world, Volumnius, how it goes;
Thou shalt be punish'd for thus frighting me,
Thou shalt not back till I have borne this corse
Thou shalt stand curs'd and excommunicate;
Thou shouldst attempt it. Come now, keep thine oath;
Thou virtuous Dauphin, alter not the doom
Thou wear a lion's hide! Doff it for shame,
Thou'rt damn'd as black-nay, nothing is so black-
Thou, like an exorcist, hast conjured up
Though churlish thoughts themselves should be your judge-
Though it do split you, for, from this day forth,
Though last, not least in love, yours, good Trebonius.
Though now we must appear bloody and cruel,
Though that my death were adjunct to my act,
Though to no use but still to look on you!
Though you and all the rest, so grossly led,
Thoughts of great value, worthy cogitations.
Threaten the threat'ner, and outface the brow
Three days before; but this from rumour's tongue
Three foot of it doth hold-bad world the while!
Thrice hath Calpurnia in her sleep cried out,
Through my burn'd bosom, nor entreat the north
Through this the well-beloved Brutus stabb'd;
Throw this report on their incensed rage
Thrust but these men away, and I'll forgive you,
Thus did Mark Antony bid me fall down,
Thy Brutus bid me give it thee, and I
Thy brother by decree is banished.
Thy foot to England's throne. And therefore mark:
Thy full petition at the hand of Brutus!
Thy grandam loves thee, and thy uncle will
Thy hand hath murd'red him. I had a mighty cause
Thy hateful life.
Thy honorable mettle may be wrought
Thy life hath had some smatch of honor in it.
Thy now unsur'd assurance to the crown
Thy spirit walks abroad, and turns our swords
Thy tongue against thy tongue. O, let thy vow
Till I have set a glory to this hand
Till each man drop by lottery. But if these,
Till he have brought thee up to yonder troops
Till my attempt so much be glorified
Till now infixed I beheld myself
Till then, my noble friend, chew upon this:
Till this advantage, this vile-drawing bias,
To a most base and vile-concluded peace.
To acquaint you with this evil, that you might
To add unto his sickness? No, my Brutus,
To all our sorrows, and ere long I doubt.            Exeunt LORDS
To all the rout, then hold me dangerous.
To any sovereign state throughout the world.
To any tongue, speak it of what it will.
To arms invasive? Shall a beardless boy,
To ashes, ere our blood shall quench that fire.
To be a secondary at control,
To be a widow-maker! O, and there
To be afeard to tell greybeards the truth?
To be but mirth and laughter to his Brutus,
To be exalted with the threatening clouds,
To be more prince, as may be. You are sad.
To be so good to Caesar as to hear me,
To bear my greeting to the senators
To beg enfranchisement for Publius Cimber.
To beg the voice and utterance of my tongue)
To break into this dangerous argument:
To break within the bloody house of life,
To cast into my teeth. O, I could weep
To charge me to an answer, as the Pope.
To check his reign but they will cherish it;
To clap this royal bargain up of peace,
To consummate this business happily.
To crouch in litter of your stable planks,
To cudgel you and make you take the hatch,
To curse the fair proceedings of this day.
To cut the head off and then hack the limbs
To dare the vile contagion of the night
To dive like buckets in concealed wells,
To do I know not what; but it sufficeth
To do the office for thee of revenge,
To do you salutation from his master.
To do your pleasure, and continue friends.
To ease ourselves of divers slanderous loads,
To every Roman citizen he gives,
To every new protester, if you know
To every several man, seventy-five drachmas.
To fasten in our thoughts that they have courage;
To feast upon whole thousands of the French.
To fierce and bloody inclination.
To find ourselves dishonorable graves.
To find you out.
To gild refined gold, to paint the lily,
To give me audience. If the midnight bell
To give this day a crown to mighty Caesar.
To give us warrant from the hand of heaven
To grace in captive bonds his chariot wheels?
To grace occasions, let it be our suit
To grace the gentry of a land remote
To groan and sweat under the business,
To guard a title that was rich before,
To hang thee on; or wouldst thou drown thyself,
To hear the replication of your sounds
To hedge me in. I am a soldier, I,
To hide thee from prevention.
To him and his usurp'd authority.
To him that did but yesterday suspire,
To hug with swine, to seek sweet safety out
To keep with you at meals, comfort your bed,
To kindle cowards and to steel with valor
To lie like pawns lock'd up in chests and trunks,
To lock such rascal counters from his friends,
To make conditions.
To make his bleak winds kiss my parched lips
To make them instruments of fear and warning
To mask thy monstrous visage? Seek none, Conspiracy;
To me, and to the state of my great grief,
To meet all perils very constantly.
To meet displeasure farther from the doors
To monstrous quality, why, you shall find
To my keen curses; for without my wrong
To offer service to your enemy;
To our attempts. Am I not stay'd for, Cinna?
To our fast-closed gates; for at this match
To our own vantage.
To our solemnity. I trust we shall,
To outlook conquest, and to will renown
To overbear it; and we are all well pleas'd,
To part the glories of this happy day.              Exeunt.
To prick us to redress? What other bond
To push destruction and perpetual shame
To rest without a spot for evermore.
To say there is no vice but beggary.
To say what good respect I have of thee.
To see great Pompey pass the streets of Rome.
To see him pass on to the Capitol.
To see my best friend ta'en before my face!
To see the strange impatience of the heavens.
To see thy Antony making his peace,
To seek the beauteous eye of heaven to garnish,
To seek you at your house. Well, I will hie
To sell and mart your offices for gold
To set a form upon that indigest
To smooth the ice, or add another hue
To solemnize this day the glorious sun
To sound more sweetly in great Caesar's ear
To sound the purposes of all their hearts,
To souse annoyance that comes near his nest.
To speak and strike? O Rome, I make thee promise,
To speak unto this city: what say you?
To sports, to wildness, and much company.
To stale with ordinary oaths my love
To stay the providence of some high powers
To stir men's blood. I only speak right on;
To stop their marches fore we are inflam'd.
To stranger blood, to foreign royalty.
To such a sudden flood of mutiny.
To swear swears only not to be forsworn;
To teach thee safety! Thou art perjur'd too,
To the disposing of the Cardinal;
To the sea-side, and put his cause and quarrel
To the yet unbegotten sin of times,
To thee, King John, my holy errand is.
To these two princes, if you marry them.
To think that Caesar bears such rebel blood
To think that or our cause or our performance
To this dead man than you shall see me pay.
To this most cruel act, do but despair;
To this unlook'd-for, unprepared pomp.
To throw a perfume on the violet,
To thrust his icy fingers in my maw,
To touch Calpurnia, for our elders say
To towers and windows, yea, to chimney tops,
To train ten thousand English to their side;
To tread down fair respect of sovereignty,
To try the fair adventure of to-morrow.                    Exeunt
To tug and scamble, and to part by th' teeth
To undergo with me an enterprise
To underprop this action? Is 't not I
To understand a law; to know the meaning
To undeservers.
To visit other places, and come down
To walk abroad and recreate yourselves.
To walk unbraced and suck up the humors
To wear a kerchief! Would you were not sick!
To whip this dwarfish war, these pigmy arms,
To whom he sung, in rude harsh-sounding rhymes,
To whom it must be done.
To whom, with all submission, on my knee
To will this easy match, play'd for a crown?
To wind, to stop, to run directly on,
To wish him dead, but thou hadst none to kill him.
To wrong the dead, to wrong myself and you,
To you for gold to pay my legions,
To you our swords have leaden points, Mark Antony;
To young Octavius of the state of things.
To your direction.
To your proceeding bids me tell you this,
To your proceedings; yet, believe me, Prince,
To your proceedings? Do not seek to stuff
Told of a many thousand warlike French
Tomorrow, if you please to speak with me,
Took it too eagerly. His soldiers fell to spoil,
Transformed with their fear, who swore they saw
Turning dispiteous torture out of door!
Turning with splendour of his precious eye
Two long days' journey, lords, or ere we meet.
Two mighty eagles fell, and there they perch'd,
Two several times by night; at Sardis once,
Two such controlling bounds, shall you be, Kings,
Ugly, and sland'rous to thy mother's womb,
Uncle, I needs must pray that thou mayst lose;
Under the tide; but now I breathe again
Under these hard conditions as this time
Under whose conduct came those pow'rs of France
Under your testy humor? By the gods,
Unless he do submit himself to Rome.
Unless thou bring'st them with thee.
Unshaked of motion; and that I am he,
Unswear faith sworn, and on the marriage-bed
Unthread the rude eye of rebellion,
Unto some monstrous state.
Unto the climate that they point upon.
Unto the legions on the other side.             Loud alarum.
Unto the rainbow, or with taper-light
Unto their issue.
Unyoke this seizure and this kind regreet?
Up to the elbows, and besmear our swords;
Upon a heap a hundred ghastly women
Upon a laboring day without the sign
Upon a parchment, and against this fire
Upon her gentle bosom, and fill up
Upon my knee I beg, go not to arms
Upon my party! Thou cold-blooded slave,
Upon old Brutus' statue. All this done,
Upon one battle all our liberties.
Upon the altar at Saint Edmundsbury;
Upon the bosom of the ground, rush forth
Upon the left hand of the even field.
Upon the next encounter yields him ours.
Upon the spot of this enforced cause-
Upon this hope that you shall give me reasons
Upon thy feature; for my rage was blind,
Upon thy stars, thy fortune, and thy strength,
Upon what meat doth this our Caesar feed
Upon what sickness?
Upon which better part our pray'rs come in,
Upon your oath of service to the Pope,
Upon your stubborn usage of the Pope;
Use our commission in his utmost force.
Vexing the dull ear of a drowsy man;
Walk under his huge legs and peep about
Was Cassius born. Give me thy hand, Messala.
Was deep-sworn faith, peace, amity, true love,
Was levied in the body of a land.
Was once superfluous: you were crown'd before,
We all stand up against the spirit of Caesar,
We are blest that Rome is rid of him.
We are two lions litter'd in one day,
We both have fed as well, and we can both
We breath'd our counsel; but it pleas'd your Highness
We cannot deal but with the very hand
We grant thou canst outscold us. Fare thee well;
We had a kind of light what would ensue.
We hold our time too precious to be spent
We make him lord of. Call the Lady Constance;
We owe thee much! Within this wall of flesh
We shall be call'd purgers, not murderers.
We shall try fortune in a second fight.              Exeunt.
We will awake him and be sure of him.                Exeunt.
We will not line his thin bestained cloak
We will untread the steps of damned flight,
We'll along ourselves and meet them at Philippi.
We'll burn his body in the holy place
We'll hear him. Noble Antony, go up.
We'll send Mark Antony to the Senate House,
We, at the height, are ready to decline.
Weakness possesseth me, and I am faint.                    Exeunt
Wear out the day in peace; but, ere sunset,
Weeping as fast as they stream forth thy blood,
Weigh them, it is as heavy; conjure with 'em,
Weighing the youthful season of the year.
Welcome, good Messala.
Well, Brutus, thou art noble; yet, I see
Well, I'll not say what I intend for thee.
Well, honor is the subject of my story.
Well, whiles I am a beggar, I will rail
Were I a common laugher, or did use
Were born to see so sad an hour as this;
Were in the Washes all unwarily
Were there in arms, they would be as a can
What Antony shall speak, I will protest
What Caesar doth, what suitors press to him.
What are you then determined to do?
What cannoneer begot this lusty blood?
What cause withholds you then to mourn for him?
What dost thou mean by shaking of thy head?
What dost thou with thy best apparel on?
What hath proceeded worthy note today.
What hath this day deserv'd? what hath it done
What have you lost by losing of this day?
What in the world should make me now deceive,
What is it that you would impart to me?
What is't o'clock?
What lusty trumpet thus doth summon us?
What may be wrought out of their discontent,
What means that hand upon that breast of thine?
What men provided, what munition sent,
What need we any spur but our own cause
What private griefs they have, alas, I know not,
What rubbish, and what offal, when it serves
What say the augurers?
What should the wars do with these jigging fools?
What since thou swor'st is sworn against thyself
What surety of the world, what hope, what stay,
What tributaries follow him to Rome
What villain touch'd his body, that did stab,
What watchful cares do interpose themselves
What we so fear'd he had a charge to do.
What you have said and show yourselves true Romans.
What you in wisdom still vouchsafe to say.
What you would have reform'd that is not well,
What you would work me to, I have some aim.
What, Brutus, are you stirr'd so early too?
What, here? O nation, that thou couldst remove!
What, shall our feast be kept with slaughtered men?
What, shall they seek the lion in his den,
Whatever torment you do put me to.
When Caesar says "Do this," it is perform'd.
When Caesar's head is off.
When Caesar's wife shall meet with better dreams."
When English measure backward their own ground
When I shall meet him in the court of heaven
When I spake darkly what I purposed,
When Marcus Brutus grows so covetous
When adverse foreigners affright my towns
When could they say till now that talk'd of Rome
When evils are most free? O, then, by day
When gold and silver becks me to come on.
When grief and blood ill-temper'd vexeth him?
When he doth run his course. Antonio!
When he intendeth to become the field;
When his fair angels would salute my palm,
When it is lighted, come and call me here.
When love begins to sicken and decay
When severally we hear them rendered.
When such profound respects do pull you on.
When that rash humor which my mother gave me
When that the poor have cried, Caesar hath wept;
When the most mighty gods by tokens send
When there is in it but one only man.
When there is such disorder in my wit.
When think you that the sword goes up again?
When this was now a king, and now is clay?
When thou didst hate him worst, thou lovedst him better
When went there by an age since the great flood
When with a volley of our needless shot,
When you are overearnest with your Brutus,
When you are waspish.
When you do find him, or alive or dead,
When, Lucius, when? Awake, I say! What, Lucius!
Where Brutus may but find it; and throw this
Where God He knows how we shall answer him;
Where I have took them up.
Where I left reading? Here it is, I think.        Sits down.
Where I may think the remnant of my thoughts
Where be your pow'rs? Show now your mended faiths,
Where but by a chance a silver drop hath fall'n,
Where hast thou led me? I perhaps speak this
Where hath it slept? Where is my mother's care,
Where honourable rescue and defence
Where is she and her son? Tell me, who knows.
Where many of the best respect in Rome,
Where never Roman shall take note of him.              Exit.
Where these two Christian armies might combine
Where we do reign we will alone uphold,
Where wilt thou find a cavern dark enough
Wherefore they do it. They could be content
Wherein hath Caesar thus deserved your loves?
Wherein my letters, praying on his side,
Wherein we step after a stranger-march
Whereto the climber-upward turns his face;
Whether Caesar will come forth today or no,
Whether yond troops are friend or enemy.
Which I respect not. I did send to you
Which all the while ran blood, great Caesar fell.
Which bleeds away even as a form of wax
Which busy care draws in the brains of men;
Which by the right and virtue of my place
Which cannot hear a lady's feeble voice,
Which did incorporate and make us one,
Which drizzled blood upon the Capitol;
Which else runs tickling up and down the veins,
Which every noble Roman bears of you.
Which for our goods we do no further ask
Which give some soil perhaps to my behaviors;
Which gives men stomach to digest his words
Which hatch'd would as his kind grow mischievous,
Which he did give himself- I know not how,
Which he did thrice refuse. Was this ambition?
Which he hath left so shapeless and so rude.
Which holds but till thy news be uttered;
Which in the very meeting fall and die!
Which is a great way growing on the south,
Which is the side that I must go withal?
Which only lives but by the death of faith,
Which scorns a modern invocation.
Which seem'd too much enkindled, and withal
Which should perceive nothing but love from us,
Which so appearing to the common eyes,
Which some suppose the soul's frail dwelling-house,
Which sometime hath his hour with every man.
Which taken at the flood leads on to fortune;
Which till this time my tongue did ne'er pronounce,
Which was embounded in this beauteous clay,
Which way hast thou been?
Which we will niggard with a little rest.
Which we, God knows, have turn'd another way,
Which you denied me. Was that done like Cassius?
Which, being but the shadow of your son,
Which, howsoever rude exteriorly,
Which, in their throng and press to that last hold,
Which, like a fountain with an hundred spouts,
Which, out of use and staled by other men,
Which, pardon me, I do not mean to read-
While I do run upon it. Wilt thou, Strato?
While Philip breathes.
Whiles they behold a greater than themselves,
Whilst bloody treason flourish'd over us.
Whilst damned Casca, like a cur, behind
Whilst he that hears makes fearful action
Whilst we by Antony are all enclosed.
Who art thou?
Who chants a doleful hymn to his own death,
Who doth desire to see you.
Who else must be let blood, who else is rank.
Who else would soar above the view of men
Who glaz'd upon me and went surly by
Who half an hour since came from the Dauphin,
Who having no external thing to lose
Who in that sale sells pardon from himself-
Who is your sister's son, Mark Antony.
Who rated him for speaking well of Pompey.
Who to Philippi here consorted us.
Who, having some advantage on Octavius,
Who, much enforced, shows a hasty spark
Who, with his shears and measure in his hand,
Who, you all know, are honorable men.
Whoever wins, on that side shall I lose:
Whom he hath us'd rather for sport than need-
Whom zeal and charity brought to the field
Whose bowels suddenly burst out. The King
Whose daggers have stabb'd Caesar; I do fear it.
Whose end is purposed by the mighty gods?
Whose fulness of perfection lies in him.
Whose private with me of the Dauphin's love
Whose ransoms did the general coffers fill.
Why I, that did love Caesar when I struck him,
Why all these fires, why all these gliding ghosts,
Why all these things change from their ordinance,
Why and wherein Caesar was dangerous.
Why are you breathless, and why stare you so?
Why birds and beasts from quality and kind,
Why didst thou send me forth, brave Cassius?
Why dost thou lead these men about the streets?
Why dost thou look so sadly on my son?
Why dost thou show to the apt thoughts of men
Why dost thou stay?
Why holds thine eye that lamentable rheum,
Why old men, fools, and children calculate,
Why should I then be false, since it is true
Why should that name be sounded more than yours?
Why then your fears-which, as they say, attend
Why thou against the Church, our holy mother,
Why urgest thou so oft young Arthur's death?
Why you are heavy and what men tonight
Why, now thou diest as bravely as Titinius,
Why, then you must. Will you put out mine eyes,
Will bear no color for the thing he is,
Will bring this labour to an happy end.                    Exeunt
Will change to virtue and to worthiness.
Will come when it will come.
Will crowd a feeble man almost to death.
Will do his bidding. Brutus, come apace,
Will give her sadness very little cure.
Will he be satisfied.
Will make him fly an ordinary pitch,
Will modestly discover to yourself
Will not a calf's-skin stop that mouth of thine?
Will not offend thee.
Will purchase us a good opinion,
Will serve to strangle thee; a rush will be a beam
Will you be prick'd in number of our friends,
With Ate by his side come hot from hell,
With Pindarus his bondman, on this hill.
With all kind love, good thoughts, and reverence.
With all religious strength of sacred vows;
With all respect and rites of burial.
With all true duty. On toward Calais, ho!                  Exeunt
With all true faith. So says my master Antony.
With any long'd-for change or better state.
With barbarous ignorance, and deny his youth
With better appetite.
With carrion men, groaning for burial.
With contemplation and devout desires.
With dreadful pomp of stout invasion!
With eyes as red as new-enkindled fire,
With fearful bravery, thinking by this face
With her to thee; and this addition more,
With holy breath.
With horsemen, that make to him on the spur;
With lusty sinews, throwing it aside
With many hundreds treading on his heels;
With many legions of strange fantasies,
With meditating that she must die once
With my vex'd spirits I cannot take a truce,
With open mouth swallowing a tailor's news;
With other princes that may best be spar'd,
With our pure honours, nor attend the foot
With purpose presently to leave this war.
With slaughter's pencil, where revenge did paint
With such a brabbler.
With swifter spleen than powder can enforce,
With that same purpose-changer, that sly devil,
With that same weak wind which enkindled it.
With that which melteth fools- I mean sweet words,
With the most boldest and best hearts of Rome.
With the most noble blood of all this world.
With these in tidings.
With this same very iron to burn them out.
With untired spirits and formal constancy.
With whom yourself, myself, and other lords,
With wrinkled brows, with nods, with rolling eyes.
Within me is a hell; and there the poison
Within my tent his bones tonight shall lie,
Within the arras. When I strike my foot
Within the bond of marriage, tell me, Brutus,
Within the scorched veins of one new-burn'd.
Within this bosom never ent'red yet
Without a tongue, using conceit alone,
Without annoying me. And there were drawn
Without eyes, ears, and harmful sound of words-
Without th' assistance of a mortal hand.
Witness against us to damnation!
Witness the hole you made in Caesar's heart,
Woe to the hand that shed this costly blood!
Would bear thee from the knowledge of thyself
Would ruffle up your spirits and put a tongue
Would run to these and these extremities;
Write them together, yours is as fair a name;
Writings, all tending to the great opinion
Yea, beg a hair of him for memory,
Yea, faith itself to hollow falsehood change!
Yea, get the better of them. What's to do?
Yea, thrust this enterprise into my heart;
Yea, without stop, didst let thy heart consent,
Yet Brutus says he was ambitious,
Yet Brutus says he was ambitious,
Yet Caesar shall go forth, for these predictions
Yet I alone, alone do me oppose
Yet I am none. Whose tongue soe'er speaks false,
Yet I am sworn, and I did purpose, boy,
Yet I insisted, yet you answer'd not,
Yet he spurs on. Now they are almost on him.
Yet if my name were liable to fear,
Yet in some measure satisfy her so
Yet in the number I do know but one
Yet indirection thereby grows direct,
Yet it shall come for me to do thee good.
Yet now they fright me. There is one within,
Yet something leads me forth.
Yet speaks, and peradventure may recover.
Yet, I know
Yet, I remember, when I was in France,
Yond Cassius has a lean and hungry look;
You all did love him once, not without cause;
You all did see that on the Lupercal
You all do know this mantle. I remember
You are contented to be led in triumph
You are not wood, you are not stones, but men;
You bear too stubborn and too strange a hand
You blocks, you stones, you worse than senseless things!
You bloody Neroes, ripping up the womb
You came in arms to spill mine enemies' blood,
You had but that opinion of yourself
You have condemn'd and noted Lucius Pella
You have forgot the will I told you of.
You have right well conceited. Let us go,
You have some sick offense within your mind,
You know it is the feast of Lupercal.
You know that I held Epicurus strong,
You know that you are Brutus that speaks this,
You said the enemy would not come down,
You see we do, yet see you but our hands
You serve Octavius Caesar, do you not?
You shall digest the venom of your spleen,
You shall not in your funeral speech blame us,
You shall not stir out of your house today.
You shall read us the will, Caesar's will.
You should be satisfied.
You show'd your teeth like apes, and fawn'd like hounds,
You stared upon me with ungentle looks.
You suddenly arose and walk'd about,
You taught me how to know the face of right,
You were disguis'd.
You'll bear me a bang for that, I fear. Proceed directly.
You, sir, what trade are you?
Young Arthur is alive. This hand of mine
Young Arthur is my son, and he is lost.
Young Arthur's death is common in their mouths;
Young gentlemen would be as sad as night,
Young lad, come forth; I have to say with you.
Young man, thou couldst not die more honorable.
Your Highness should deliver up your crown.
Your breath first kindled the dead coal of wars
Your hearts and minds to mutiny and rage,
Your hidden worthiness into your eye
Your infants in your arms, and there have sat
Your noble mother; and as I hear, my lord,
Your nobles will not hear you, but are gone
Your safety, for the which myself and them
Your sovereign greatness and authority.
Your statue spouting blood in many pipes,
Your tender kinsman, and to choke his days
Your uncle must not know but you are dead:
Your vile intent must needs seem horrible.
Your weak condition to the raw cold morning.
Your wisdom is consumed in confidence.
Your worth, your greatness and nobility.
Yours, Cinna; and, my valiant Casca, yours;
Zounds! I was never so bethump'd with words
[Aside to Brutus.] You know not what you do. Do not consent
[Aside]  Hubert, what news with you?
[Dies]
[Offers money.] There is so much that thou wilt kill me straight:
[To Varro.] Fellow thou, awake!
a married man or a bachelor? Then, to answer every man directly
about you. Security gives way to conspiracy. The mighty gods
according as he pleased and displeased them, as they use to do
again; but those that understood him smiled at one another and
almost choked Caesar, for he swounded and fell down at it. And
and briefly, wisely and truly: wisely I say, I am a bachelor.
and death for his ambition. Who is here so base that would be a
and it is bent against Caesar. If thou beest not immortal, look
and offered them his throat to cut. An had been a man of any
and receiving the bad air.
and threw up their sweaty nightcaps and uttered such a deal of
and to rejoice in his triumph.
any, speak, for him have I offended. I pause for a reply.
awl. I am indeed, sir, a surgeon to old shoes; when they are in
bondman? If any, speak, for him have I offended. Who is here so
but, as you would say, a cobbler.
clamors.
conscience, which is indeed, sir, a mender of bad soles.
coronets) and, as I told you, he put it by once. But for all
could tell you more news too: Marullus and Flavius, for pulling
crown (yet 'twas not a crown neither, 'twas one of these
defend thee!
depart- that, as I slew my best lover for the good of Rome, I
down. If the tagrag people did not clap him and hiss him
enrolled in the Capitol, his glory not extenuated, wherein he was
first emperor of Rome
for mine own part, I durst not laugh for fear of opening my lips
four wenches where I stood cried, "Alas, good soul!" and forgave
great danger, I recover them. As proper men as ever trod upon
have the same dagger for myself, when it shall please my country
he desired their worships to think it was his infirmity. Three or
herd was glad he refused the crown, he plucked me ope his doublet
him I say that Brutus' love to Caesar was no less than his. If
him with all their hearts. But there's no heed to be taken of
him.
if you be out, sir, I can mend you.
into more work. But indeed, sir, we make holiday to see Caesar
is tears for his love, joy for his fortune, honor for his valor,
it to him again; then he put it by again. But, to my thinking, he
meddle with no tradesman's matters, nor women's matters, but with
mere foolery; I did not mark it. I saw Mark Antony offer him a
might go to hell among the rogues. And so he fell. When he came
more. Had you rather Caesar were living and die all slaves, than
my answer: Not that I loved Caesar less, but that I loved Rome
name out of his heart, and turn him going.
neat's leather have gone upon my handiwork.
no hand in his death, shall receive the benefit of his dying, a
no less.
not near Casca; have an eye to Cinna; trust not Trebonius; mark
occupation, if I would not have taken him at a word, I would I
offended. Who is here so vile that will not love his country? If
place in the commonwealth, as which of you shall not? With this I
refused it, the rabblement hooted and clapped their chopped hands
respect to mine honor, that you may believe. Censure me in your
rude that would not be a Roman? If any, speak, for him have I
scarfs off Caesar's images, are put to silence. Fare you well.
shook their heads; but for mine own part, it was Greek to me. I
shouted.
silent, that you may hear. Believe me for mine honor, and have
speechless.
stinking breath because Caesar refused the crown that it had
than other, and at every putting by mine honest neighbors
than you shall do to Brutus. The question of his death is
that Caesar were dead to live all freemen? As Caesar loved me, I
that, to my thinking, he would fain have had it. Then he offered
the eating.
the players in the theatre, I am no true man.
the third time; he put it the third time by; and still as he
them; if Caesar had stabbed their mothers, they would have done
then that friend demand why Brutus rose against Caesar, this is
there be any in this assembly, any dear friend of Caesar's, to
to Casca's, some to Ligarius'. Away, go!             Exeunt.
to himself again, he said, if he had done or said anything amiss,
to need my death.
valiant, I honor him; but as he was ambitious, I slew him. There
verses.
was very loath to lay his fingers off it. And then he offered it
weep for him; as he was fortunate, I rejoice at it; as he was
well Metellus Cimber; Decius Brutus loves thee not; thou hast
wisdom, and awake your senses, that you may the better judge. If
worthy, nor his offenses enforced, for which he suffered death.
wronged Caius Ligarius. There is but one mind in all these men,
A Hail, Caesar! Read this schedule.
A Poet
A Soothsayer
ALL. Come down.
ALL. Live, Brutus, live, live!
ALL. Most true, the will! Let's stay and hear the will.
ALL. None, Brutus, none.
ALL. Peace, ho!
ALL. Peace, ho! Hear Antony, most noble Antony!
ALL. Peace, ho! Let us hear him.
ALL. Revenge! About! Seek! Burn! Fire! Kill!
ALL. Stand back; room, bear back!
ALL. The will! The testament!
ALL. The will, the will! We will hear Caesar's will.
ALL. We'll mutiny.
ANTONY. And thither will I straight to visit him.
ANTONY. Be it so,
ANTONY. Be like they had some notice of the people,
ANTONY. But yesterday the word of Caesar might
ANTONY. Caesar did write for him to come to Rome.
ANTONY. Caesar, my lord?
ANTONY. Caesar?
ANTONY. Fear him not, Caesar; he's not dangerous;
ANTONY. For Brutus' sake, I am beholding to you.
ANTONY. Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears!
ANTONY. Good friends, sweet friends, let me not stir you up
ANTONY. Have patience, gentle friends, I must not read it;
ANTONY. He shall not live; look, with a spot I damn him.
ANTONY. Hear me with patience.
ANTONY. Here is the will, and under Caesar's seal.
ANTONY. I doubt not of your wisdom.
ANTONY. I shall remember.
ANTONY. If you have tears, prepare to shed them now.
ANTONY. In your bad strokes, Brutus, you give good words.
ANTONY. Moreover, he hath left you all his walks,
ANTONY. Nay, press not so upon me, stand far off.
ANTONY. No, Caesar, we will answer on their charge.
ANTONY. Not stingless too.
ANTONY. Now let it work. Mischief, thou art afoot,
ANTONY. O mighty Caesar! Dost thou lie so low?
ANTONY. O, pardon me, thou bleeding piece of earth,
ANTONY. Octavius, I have seen more days than you,
ANTONY. Octavius, lead your battle softly on,
ANTONY. Old Cassius still!
ANTONY. Pardon me, Caius Cassius.
ANTONY. Post back with speed and tell him what hath chanced.
ANTONY. So is my horse, Octavius, and for that
ANTONY. So to most noble Caesar.
ANTONY. Stay, countrymen.
ANTONY. That's all I seek;
ANTONY. Therefore I took your hands, but was indeed
ANTONY. These many then shall die, their names are prick'd.
ANTONY. This is a slight unmeritable man,
ANTONY. This is not Brutus, friend, but, I assure you,
ANTONY. This was the noblest Roman of them all.
ANTONY. Thy heart is big; get thee apart and weep.
ANTONY. Tut, I am in their bosoms, and I know
ANTONY. Villains! You did not so when your vile daggers
ANTONY. Where is he?
ANTONY. Where is he?
ANTONY. Why do you cross me in this exigent?
ANTONY. Why, friends, you go to do you know not what.
ANTONY. Will you be patient? Will you stay awhile?
ANTONY. Yet hear me, countrymen; yet hear me speak.
ANTONY. You gentle Romans-
ANTONY. You will compel me then to read the will?
ARTEMIDORUS, a teacher of rhetoric
ARTEMIDORUS. "Caesar, beware of Brutus; take heed of Cassius; come
ARTEMIDORUS. Delay not, Caesar; read it instantly.
ARTEMIDORUS. O Caesar, read mine first, for mine's a suit
ARTHUR. Ah, none but in this iron age would do it!
ARTHUR. Alas, I then have chid away my friend!
ARTHUR. Alas, what need you be so boist'rous rough?
ARTHUR. An if you do, you will but make it blush
ARTHUR. And will you?
ARTHUR. Are you sick, Hubert? You look pale to-day;
ARTHUR. As little prince, having so great a tide
ARTHUR. Good morrow, Hubert.
ARTHUR. Have you the heart? When your head did but ache,
ARTHUR. Hubert, the utterance of a brace of tongues
ARTHUR. I do beseech you, madam, be content.
ARTHUR. Is there no remedy?
ARTHUR. Mercy on me!
ARTHUR. No, in good sooth; the fire is dead with grief,
ARTHUR. O heaven! I thank you, Hubert.
ARTHUR. O heaven, that there were but a mote in yours,
ARTHUR. O, now you look like Hubert! All this while
ARTHUR. O, save me, Hubert, save me! My eyes are out
ARTHUR. O, this will make my mother die with grief!
ARTHUR. The wall is high, and yet will I leap down.
ARTHUR. Too fairly, Hubert, for so foul effect.
AUSTRIA. And your lips too; for I am well assur'd
AUSTRIA. Do so, King Philip; hang no more in doubt.
AUSTRIA. King Philip, listen to the Cardinal.
AUSTRIA. Lady Constance, peace!
AUSTRIA. O that a man should speak those words to me!
AUSTRIA. Rebellion, flat rebellion!
AUSTRIA. Thou dar'st not say so, villain, for thy life.
AUSTRIA. Well, ruffian, I must pocket up these wrongs,
Alb. How far your eyes may pierce I cannot tell.
Alb. I cannot be so partial, Goneril,
Alb. My lord, I am guiltless, as I am ignorant
Alb. Now, gods that we adore, whereof comes this?
Alb. Pray, sir, be patient.
Alb. Well, well; th' event.                            Exeunt.
Alb. Well, you may fear too far.
Alb. What's the matter, sir?
Alb., Corn. Dear sir, forbear!
BASTARD.  [Aside]  Drawn in the flattering table of her eye,
BASTARD. 'Tis true-to hurt his master, no man else.
BASTARD. A friend. What art thou?
BASTARD. According to the fair play of the world,
BASTARD. All Kent hath yielded; nothing there holds out
BASTARD. And hang a calf's-skin on his recreant limbs.
BASTARD. And hang a calf's-skin on those recreant limbs.
BASTARD. And hang a calf's-skin on those recreant limbs.
BASTARD. And thou shalt find it, Dauphin, do not doubt.
BASTARD. Art thou gone so? I do but stay behind
BASTARD. Away, then, with good courage!
BASTARD. Bell, book, and candle, shall not drive me back,
BASTARD. Brief, then; and what's the news?
BASTARD. But if you be afear'd to hear the worst,
BASTARD. But there is little reason in your grief;
BASTARD. By all the blood that ever fury breath'd,
BASTARD. Come, come; sans compliment, what news abroad?
BASTARD. Go, bear him in thine arms.
BASTARD. Ha! I'll tell thee what:
BASTARD. Hang nothing but a calf's-skin, most sweet lout.
BASTARD. He will the rather do it when he sees
BASTARD. Here's a good world! Knew you of this fair work?
BASTARD. Here's a stay
BASTARD. How I have sped among the clergymen
BASTARD. How did he take it; who did taste to him?
BASTARD. Hubert, I think.
BASTARD. I Will seek them out.
BASTARD. If thou didst but consent
BASTARD. Indeed, your drums, being beaten, will cry out;
BASTARD. It is a damned and a bloody work;
BASTARD. Keep the peace, I say.
BASTARD. Let it be so. And you, my noble Prince,
BASTARD. Mad world! mad kings! mad composition!
BASTARD. My lord, I rescued her;
BASTARD. No, I will speak.
BASTARD. Now, by my life, this day grows wondrous hot;
BASTARD. O inglorious league!
BASTARD. O, I am scalded with my violent motion
BASTARD. O, let us pay the time but needful woe,
BASTARD. Old Time the clock-setter, that bald sexton Time,
BASTARD. Once more to-day well met, distemper'd lords!
BASTARD. Show me the very wound of this ill news;
BASTARD. So, on my soul, he did, for aught he knew.
BASTARD. The Dauphin is preparing hitherward,
BASTARD. The French, my lord; men's mouths are full of it;
BASTARD. The spirit of the time shall teach me speed.
BASTARD. Thither shall it, then;
BASTARD. Thou wert better gall the devil, Salisbury.
BASTARD. Whate'er you think, good words, I think, were best.
BASTARD. Whither dost thou go?
BASTARD. Who didst thou leave to tend his Majesty?
BASTARD. Who thou wilt. And if thou please,
BASTARD. Will't not be?
BASTARD. Withhold thine indignation, mighty heaven,
BASTARD. Your breeches best may carry them.
BASTARD. Your sword is bright, sir; put it up again.
BIGOT. Away toward Bury, to the Dauphin there!
BIGOT. Or, when he doom'd this beauty to a grave,
BIGOT. Out, dunghill! Dar'st thou brave a nobleman?
BIGOT. To-morrow morning let us meet him then.
BIGOT. What wilt thou do, renowned Faulconbridge?
BIGOT. Who kill'd this prince?
BLANCH. My uncle's will in this respect is mine.
BLANCH. Now shall I see thy love. What motive may
BLANCH. That she is bound in honour still to do
BLANCH. That's the curse of Rome.
BLANCH. The Lady Constance speaks not from her faith,
BLANCH. The sun's o'ercast with blood. Fair day, adieu!
BLANCH. There where my fortune lives, there my life dies.
BLANCH. Upon thy wedding-day?
BRUTUS. 'Tis good. Go to the gate, somebody knocks.
BRUTUS. 'Tis very like. He hath the falling sickness.
BRUTUS. A flatterer's would not, though they do appear
BRUTUS. A piece of work that will make sick men whole.
BRUTUS. A soothsayer you beware the ides of March.
BRUTUS. Alas, good Cassius, do not think of him.
BRUTUS. All this? Ay, more. Fret till your proud heart break.
BRUTUS. And I am Brutus, Marcus Brutus, I;
BRUTUS. And after that he came, thus sad, away?
BRUTUS. And my heart too.
BRUTUS. And so it is. For this time I will leave you.
BRUTUS. Another general shout!
BRUTUS. Are yet two Romans living such as these?
BRUTUS. Away, slight man!
BRUTUS. Ay, Casca, tell us what hath chanced today
BRUTUS. Ay, saw you anything?
BRUTUS. Be patient till the last.
BRUTUS. Bear with me, good boy, I am much forgetful.
BRUTUS. But here comes Antony. Welcome, Mark Antony.
BRUTUS. By the eighth hour. Is that the utter most?
BRUTUS. By your pardon,
BRUTUS. Caesar, 'tis strucken eight.
BRUTUS. Caesar, thou canst not die by traitors' hands,
BRUTUS. Caius Ligarius, that Metellus spake of.
BRUTUS. Cassius,
BRUTUS. Cassius, be constant.
BRUTUS. Cassius, be content,
BRUTUS. Come hither, good Volumnius, list a word.
BRUTUS. Come in, Titinius!                        Exit Lucius.
BRUTUS. Come, poor remains of friends, rest on this rock.
BRUTUS. Didst thou dream, Lucius, that thou so criedst out?
BRUTUS. Do so, and let no man abide this deed
BRUTUS. Do you know them?
BRUTUS. Even by the rule of that philosophy
BRUTUS. Even so, Lucilius.
BRUTUS. Even so.
BRUTUS. Everything is well.
BRUTUS. Farewell to you, and you, and you, Volumnius.
BRUTUS. Farewell, everyone.
BRUTUS. Farewell, good Strato.              Runs on his sword.
BRUTUS. Fates, we will know your pleasures.
BRUTUS. Follow me then.                                Exeunt.
BRUTUS. For your life you durst not.
BRUTUS. Get me a taper in my study, Lucius.
BRUTUS. Get you hence, sirrah; saucy fellow, hence!
BRUTUS. Get you to bed again, it is not day.
BRUTUS. Give me your hands all over, one by one.
BRUTUS. Go and commend me to my brother Cassius;
BRUTUS. Go to, you are not, Cassius.
BRUTUS. Good countrymen, let me depart alone,
BRUTUS. Good gentlemen, look fresh and merrily;
BRUTUS. Good night, good brother.
BRUTUS. Good reasons must of force give place to better.
BRUTUS. Good words are better than bad strokes, Octavius.
BRUTUS. Grant that, and then is death a benefit;
BRUTUS. Hark thee, Dardanius.                        Whispers.
BRUTUS. Hark, he is arrived.
BRUTUS. He greets me well. Your master, Pindarus,
BRUTUS. He is address'd; press near and second him.
BRUTUS. He is not doubted. A word, Lucilius,
BRUTUS. He is welcome hither.
BRUTUS. He is welcome too.
BRUTUS. He thinks he still is at his instrument.
BRUTUS. Hear me, for I will speak.
BRUTUS. Hence! I will follow.
BRUTUS. Ho, Lucilius! Hark, a word with you.
BRUTUS. How many times shall Caesar bleed in sport,
BRUTUS. I am not gamesome; I do lack some part
BRUTUS. I am not well in health, and that is all.
BRUTUS. I do not like your faults.
BRUTUS. I do not, till you practise them on me.
BRUTUS. I have been up this hour, awake all night.
BRUTUS. I kiss thy hand, but not in flattery, Caesar,
BRUTUS. I know that we shall have him well to friend.
BRUTUS. I pray you, sirs, lie in my tent and sleep;
BRUTUS. I say you are not.
BRUTUS. I should not then ask Casca what had chanced.
BRUTUS. I should not urge thy duty past thy might;
BRUTUS. I will do so. But, look you, Cassius,
BRUTUS. I would not have it so. Lie down, good sirs.
BRUTUS. I would not, Cassius, yet I love him well.
BRUTUS. I'll know his humor when he knows his time.
BRUTUS. If you did, I care not.
BRUTUS. Impatient of my absence,
BRUTUS. Into what dangers would you lead me, Cassius,
BRUTUS. Is he alone?
BRUTUS. It does, my boy.
BRUTUS. It must be by his death, and, for my part,
BRUTUS. It was well done, and thou shalt sleep again;
BRUTUS. Judge me, you gods! Wrong I mine enemies?
BRUTUS. Kneel not, gentle Portia.
BRUTUS. Let 'em enter.                            Exit Lucius.
BRUTUS. Let me tell you, Cassius, you yourself
BRUTUS. Look in the calendar and bring me word.
BRUTUS. Look, how he makes to Caesar. Mark him.
BRUTUS. Lucilius and Titinius, bid the commanders
BRUTUS. Lucilius, do you the like, and let no man
BRUTUS. Lucius!
BRUTUS. Lucius, a bowl of wine!                   Exit Lucius.
BRUTUS. Mark Antony, here, take you Caesar's body.
BRUTUS. My countrymen-
BRUTUS. Nay I am sure it is, Volumnius.
BRUTUS. No man bears sorrow better. Portia is dead.
BRUTUS. No more, I pray you.
BRUTUS. No, Cassius, for the eye sees not itself
BRUTUS. No, Cassius, no. Think not, thou noble Roman,
BRUTUS. No, Messala.
BRUTUS. No, not an oath. If not the face of men,
BRUTUS. No.
BRUTUS. Not I.
BRUTUS. Nothing, Messala.
BRUTUS. Now, as you are a Roman, tell me true.
BRUTUS. Now, good Metellus, go along by him.
BRUTUS. O Antony, beg not your death of us!
BRUTUS. O Cassius, I am sick of many griefs.
BRUTUS. O Julius Caesar, thou art mighty yet!
BRUTUS. O ye gods,
BRUTUS. O, if thou wert the noblest of thy strain,
BRUTUS. O, name him not; let us not break with him,
BRUTUS. O, what a time have you chose out, brave Caius,
BRUTUS. O, yes, and soundless too,
BRUTUS. Only be patient till we have appeased
BRUTUS. Or else were this a savage spectacle.
BRUTUS. Our course will seem too bloody, Caius Cassius,
BRUTUS. Peace then, no words.
BRUTUS. Peace, count the clock.
BRUTUS. Peace, peace! You durst not so have tempted him.
BRUTUS. People and senators, be not affrighted,
BRUTUS. Portia, what mean you? Wherefore rise you now?
BRUTUS. Prepare the body then, and follow us.
BRUTUS. Remember March, the ides of March remember.
BRUTUS. Ride, ride, Messala, ride, and give these bills
BRUTUS. She is dead.
BRUTUS. Sheathe your dagger.
BRUTUS. Sit thee down, Clitus. Slaying is the word:
BRUTUS. Sleep again, Lucius. Sirrah Claudio!
BRUTUS. Soft, who comes here? A friend of Antony's.
BRUTUS. Speak no more of her. Give me a bowl of wine.
BRUTUS. Stand, ho!
BRUTUS. Stand, ho! Speak the word along.
BRUTUS. Such an exploit have I in hand, Ligarius,
BRUTUS. Talk not of standing. Publius, good cheer,
BRUTUS. Tell us the manner of it, gentle Casca.
BRUTUS. That must we also. What it is, my Caius,
BRUTUS. That you do love me, I am nothing jealous;
BRUTUS. The deep of night is crept upon our talk,
BRUTUS. The exhalations whizzing in the air
BRUTUS. The games are done, and Caesar is returning.
BRUTUS. The name of Cassius honors this corruption,
BRUTUS. Then follow me and give me audience, friends.
BRUTUS. Then none have I offended. I have done no more to Caesar
BRUTUS. There in our letters do not well agree;
BRUTUS. They are all welcome.
BRUTUS. They stand, and would have parley.
BRUTUS. Thou hast described
BRUTUS. Thy master is a wise and valiant Roman;
BRUTUS. Titinius' face is upward.
BRUTUS. Under your pardon. You must note beside
BRUTUS. Was the crown offered him thrice?
BRUTUS. Well, then I shall see thee again?
BRUTUS. Well, to our work alive. What do you think
BRUTUS. What a blunt fellow is this grown to be!
BRUTUS. What means this shouting? I do fear the people
BRUTUS. What now, Lucilius, is Cassius near?
BRUTUS. What said Popilius Lena?
BRUTUS. What said he when he came unto himself?
BRUTUS. What was the second noise for?
BRUTUS. What's the matter?
BRUTUS. What, Lucius, ho!
BRUTUS. What, thou speak'st drowsily?
BRUTUS. When I spoke that, I was ill-temper'd too.
BRUTUS. Where's Publius?
BRUTUS. Where, where, Messala, doth his body lie?
BRUTUS. Why ask you? Hear you aught of her in yours?
BRUTUS. Why comest thou?
BRUTUS. Why did you so cry out, sirs, in your sleep?
BRUTUS. Why then, lead on. O, that a man might know
BRUTUS. Why, I will see thee at Philippi then.     Exit Ghost.
BRUTUS. Why, farewell, Portia. We must die, Messala.
BRUTUS. Why, so I do. Good Portia, go to bed.
BRUTUS. Why, this, Volumnius:
BRUTUS. With what addition?
BRUTUS. Words before blows. Is it so, countrymen?
BRUTUS. Yes, Cassius, and from henceforth,
BRUTUS. Yes, that thou didst. Didst thou see anything?
BRUTUS. Yet, countrymen, O, yet hold up your heads!
BRUTUS. You are my true and honorable wife,
BRUTUS. You did.
BRUTUS. You have done that you should be sorry for.
BRUTUS. You say you are a better soldier:
BRUTUS. You shall, Mark Antony.
BRUTUS. You wrong'd yourself to write in such a case.
BRUTUS. Your reason?
BRUTUS. [Aside.] That every like is not the same, O Caesar,
Bur. I am sorry then you have so lost a father
Bur. I know no answer.
Bur. Most royal Majesty,
Bur. Pardon me, royal sir.
Bur. Royal Lear,
CAESAR. And this way have you well expounded it.
CAESAR. And you are come in very happy time
CAESAR. Antonio!
CAESAR. Are we all ready? What is now amiss
CAESAR. Bid them prepare within.
CAESAR. Caesar shall forth: the things that threaten'd me
CAESAR. Calpurnia!
CAESAR. Calpurnia!
CAESAR. Cowards die many times before their deaths;
CAESAR. Doth not Brutus bootless kneel?
CAESAR. Et tu, Brute?- Then fall, Caesar! Dies.
CAESAR. Forget not in your speed, Antonio,
CAESAR. Go bid the priests do present sacrifice,
CAESAR. Good friends, go in and taste some wine with me,
CAESAR. Ha! Who calls?
CAESAR. He is a dreamer; let us leave him. Pass.
CAESAR. Hence! Wilt thou lift up Olympus?
CAESAR. How foolish do your fears seem now, Calpurnia!
CAESAR. I could be well moved, if I were as you;
CAESAR. I must prevent thee, Cimber.
CAESAR. I thank you for your pains and courtesy.
CAESAR. Let me have men about me that are fat,
CAESAR. Mark Antony shall say I am not well,
CAESAR. Nor heaven nor earth have been at peace tonight.
CAESAR. Set him before me let me see his face.
CAESAR. Set on, and leave no ceremony out.           Flourish.
CAESAR. Shall Caesar send a lie?
CAESAR. Stand you directly in Antonio's way,
CAESAR. The cause is in my will: I will not come,
CAESAR. The gods do this in shame of cowardice.
CAESAR. The ides of March are come.
CAESAR. Welcome, Publius.
CAESAR. What can be avoided
CAESAR. What man is that?
CAESAR. What say'st thou to me now? Speak once again.
CAESAR. What touches us ourself shall be last served.
CAESAR. What, Brutus?
CAESAR. What, is the fellow mad?
CAESAR. Who is it in the press that calls on me?
CAESAR. Would he were fatter! But I fear him not,
CAIUS LIGARIUS,      "          "     "
CALPURNIA, wife of Caesar
CALPURNIA. Alas, my lord,
CALPURNIA. Caesar, I I stood on ceremonies,
CALPURNIA. Here, my lord.
CALPURNIA. Say he is sick.
CALPURNIA. What mean you, Caesar? Think you to walk forth?
CALPURNIA. When beggars die, there are no comets seen;
CASCA,          conspirator against Caesar
CASCA. 'Tis Caesar that you mean, is it not, Cassius?
CASCA. A Roman.
CASCA. A common slave- you know him well by sight-
CASCA. Are not you moved, when all the sway of earth
CASCA. Ay, he spoke Greek.
CASCA. Ay, if I be alive, and your mind hold, and your dinner worth
CASCA. Ay, marry, wast, and he put it by thrice, every time gentler
CASCA. Ay.
CASCA. Bid every noise be still. Peace yet again!
CASCA. But wherefore did you so much tempt the heavens?
CASCA. Do so, farewell, both.                            Exit.
CASCA. Farewell, Cicero.                          Exit Cicero.
CASCA. Go to the pulpit, Brutus.
CASCA. He doth, for he did bid Antonio
CASCA. He fell down in the marketplace and foamed at mouth and was
CASCA. I can as well be hang'd as tell the manner of it. It was
CASCA. I know not what you mean by that, but I am sure Caesar fell
CASCA. Indeed he is not fit.
CASCA. Indeed they say the senators tomorrow
CASCA. Let us not leave him out.
CASCA. Marry, before he fell down, when he perceived the common
CASCA. Nay, an I tell you that, I'll ne'er look you i' the face
CASCA. No, I am promised forth.
CASCA. No.
CASCA. O, he sits high in all the people's hearts,
CASCA. Peace, ho! Caesar speaks.
CASCA. So can I.
CASCA. Speak, hands, for me!
CASCA. Stand close awhile, for here comes one in haste.
CASCA. Who ever knew the heavens menace so?
CASCA. Why, Antony.
CASCA. Why, for that too.
CASCA. Why, for that too.
CASCA. Why, there was a crown offered him, and being offered him,
CASCA. Why, you were with him, were you not?
CASCA. You pull'd me by the cloak; would you speak with me?
CASCA. You shall confess that you are both deceived.
CASCA. You speak to Casca, and to such a man
CASCA. Your ear is good. Cassius, what night is this!
CASSIUS, instigator of the conspiracy
CASSIUS. 'Tis Cinna, I do know him by his gait;
CASSIUS. 'Tis just,
CASSIUS. A friendly eye could never see such faults.
CASSIUS. A peevish school boy, worthless of such honor,
CASSIUS. A very pleasing night to honest men.
CASSIUS. Am I not stay'd for? Tell me.
CASSIUS. And come yourselves and bring Messala with you
CASSIUS. And died so?
CASSIUS. And leave us, Publius, lest that the people
CASSIUS. And let us swear our resolution.
CASSIUS. And why should Caesar be a tyrant then?
CASSIUS. Antony,
CASSIUS. As they pass by, pluck Casca by the sleeve,
CASSIUS. Away, away, be gone!                       Exit Poet.
CASSIUS. Ay, do you fear it?
CASSIUS. Ay, every man away.
CASSIUS. Be you content. Good Cinna, take this paper,
CASSIUS. Bear with him, Brutus; 'tis his fashion.
CASSIUS. Brutus, I do observe you now of late;
CASSIUS. Brutus, a word with you.
CASSIUS. Brutus, bait not me,
CASSIUS. Brutus, this sober form of yours hides wrongs,
CASSIUS. But it is doubtful yet
CASSIUS. But what of Cicero? Shall we sound him?
CASSIUS. But, soft, I pray you, what, did Caesars wound?
CASSIUS. Casca will tell us what the matter is.
CASSIUS. Casca,
CASSIUS. Casca, by your voice.
CASSIUS. Chastisement?
CASSIUS. Cicero one!
CASSIUS. Come down; behold no more.
CASSIUS. Come, Antony, and young Octavius, come,
CASSIUS. Decius, well urged. I think it is not meet
CASSIUS. Did Cicero say anything?
CASSIUS. Do not presume too much upon my love;
CASSIUS. Do you confess so much? Give me your hand.
CASSIUS. Fellow, come from the throng; look upon Caesar.
CASSIUS. Flatterers? Now, Brutus, thank yourself.
CASSIUS. Forever and forever farewell, Brutus!
CASSIUS. Go, Pindarus, get higher on that hill;
CASSIUS. Good night, my lord.
CASSIUS. Good, I will expect you.
CASSIUS. Ha, ha! How vilely doth this cynic rhyme!
CASSIUS. Ha? Portia?
CASSIUS. Hath Cassius lived
CASSIUS. Have not you love enough to bear with me
CASSIUS. He wish'd today our enterprise might thrive.
CASSIUS. Hear me, good brother.
CASSIUS. Him and his worth and our great need of him
CASSIUS. How 'scaped killing when I cross'd you so?
CASSIUS. How now, what's the matter?
CASSIUS. I am glad that my weak words
CASSIUS. I am.
CASSIUS. I an itching palm?
CASSIUS. I blame you not for praising Caesar so;
CASSIUS. I but believe it partly,
CASSIUS. I denied you not.
CASSIUS. I did not think you could have been so angry.
CASSIUS. I did not. He was but a fool
CASSIUS. I do not think it good.
CASSIUS. I durst not?
CASSIUS. I have as much of this in art as you,
CASSIUS. I know not what may fall; I like it not.
CASSIUS. I know that virtue to be in you, Brutus,
CASSIUS. I know where I will wear this dagger then:
CASSIUS. I pray you, do.
CASSIUS. I think we are too bold upon your rest.
CASSIUS. I will do so. Till then, think of the world.
CASSIUS. I wish we may, but yet have I a mind
CASSIUS. In such a time as this it is not meet
CASSIUS. Is it come to this?
CASSIUS. Is't possible?
CASSIUS. Let it be who it is, for Romans now
CASSIUS. Mark Antony-
CASSIUS. Messala!
CASSIUS. Messala,
CASSIUS. Most noble brother, you have done me wrong.
CASSIUS. My heart is thirsty for that noble pledge.
CASSIUS. Nay, we will all of us be there to fetch him.
CASSIUS. No more. Good night.
CASSIUS. No, Caesar hath it not, but you, and I,
CASSIUS. No, it is Casca, one incorporate
CASSIUS. Now, most noble Brutus,
CASSIUS. O Brutus!
CASSIUS. O gods, ye gods! Must I endure all this?
CASSIUS. O my dear brother!
CASSIUS. O ye immortal gods!
CASSIUS. O, look, Titinius, look, the villains fly!
CASSIUS. Of your philosophy you make no use,
CASSIUS. Pardon, Caesar! Caesar, pardon!
CASSIUS. Pindarus,
CASSIUS. Portia, art thou gone?
CASSIUS. Shall I entreat a word?                 They whisper.
CASSIUS. So is he now in execution
CASSIUS. So oft as that shall be,
CASSIUS. Some to the common pulpits and cry out
CASSIUS. Stand fast, Titinius; we must out and talk.
CASSIUS. Stand, ho!
CASSIUS. Stoop then, and wash. How many ages hence
CASSIUS. That done, repair to Pompey's Theatre.
CASSIUS. That you have wrong'd me doth appear in this:
CASSIUS. The clock hath stricken three.
CASSIUS. The morning comes upon 's. We'll leave you, Brutus,
CASSIUS. Then leave him out.
CASSIUS. Then, Brutus, I have much mistook your passion,
CASSIUS. Then, if we lose this battle,
CASSIUS. Then, with your will, go on;
CASSIUS. There's a bargain made.
CASSIUS. Therefore, good Brutus, be prepared to hear,
CASSIUS. They shouted thrice. What was the last cry for?
CASSIUS. This hill is far enough. Look, look, Titinius:
CASSIUS. This it is:
CASSIUS. This, Decius Brutus.
CASSIUS. Those that have known the earth so full of faults.
CASSIUS. Titinius, if thou lovest me,
CASSIUS. To what effect?
CASSIUS. Trebonius knows his time, for, look you, Brutus,
CASSIUS. Urge me no more, I shall forget myself;
CASSIUS. What enterprise, Popilius?
CASSIUS. What news?
CASSIUS. What, durst not tempt him?
CASSIUS. What, urge you your petitions in the street?
CASSIUS. When Caesar lived, he durst not thus have moved me.
CASSIUS. Where is Antony?
CASSIUS. Who offered him the crown?
CASSIUS. Who's there?
CASSIUS. Why, he that cuts off twenty years of life
CASSIUS. Why, man, he doth bestride the narrow world
CASSIUS. Why, now, blow and, swell billow, and swim bark!
CASSIUS. Will you dine with me tomorrow?
CASSIUS. Will you go see the order of the course?
CASSIUS. Will you sup with me tonight, Casca?
CASSIUS. Yes, every man of them, and no man here
CASSIUS. Yet I fear him,
CASSIUS. You are dull, Casca, and those sparks of life
CASSIUS. You love me not.
CASSIUS. You wrong me every way, you wrong me, Brutus.
CASSIUS. Your voice shall be as strong as any man's
CATO,     supportor of Brutus
CATO. Brave Titinius!
CATO. He is slain.
CATO. What bastard doth not? Who will go with me?
CICERO,     senator
CICERO. Good even, Casca. Brought you Caesar home?
CICERO. Good then, Casca. This disturbed sky
CICERO. Indeed, it is a strange-disposed time.
CICERO. Why, saw you anything more wonderful?
CINNA,               "          "     "
CINNA, a poet
CINNA. All but Metellus Cimber, and he's gone
CINNA. As a friend.
CINNA. Be that the uttermost, and fail not then.
CINNA. Briefly, I dwell by the Capitol.
CINNA. Casca, you are the first that rears your hand.
CINNA. Directly, I am going to Caesar's funeral.
CINNA. Here, quite confounded with this mutiny.
CINNA. I am Cinna the poet, I am Cinna the poet.
CINNA. I am glad on't. What a fearful night is this!
CINNA. I am not Cinna the conspirator.
CINNA. I dreamt tonight that I did feast with Caesar,
CINNA. Liberty! Freedom! Tyranny is dead!
CINNA. No, by no means.
CINNA. O Caesar-
CINNA. O, pardon, sir, it doth, and yongrey lines
CINNA. To find out you. Who's that? Metellus Cimber?
CINNA. Truly, my name is Cinna.
CINNA. What is my name? Whither am I going? Where do I dwell? Am I
CINNA. Yes, you are.
CITIZEN. Why answer not the double majesties
CITIZENS. We will be satisfied! Let us be satisfied!
CLAUDIO,      "    "     "
CLAUDIO. My lord?
CLAUDIO. Nor I, my lord.
CLITUS,       "    "     "
CLITUS. Fly, fly, my lord, there is no tarrying here.
CLITUS. Fly, my lord, fly.
CLITUS. I'll rather kill myself.
CLITUS. Now is that noble vessel full of grief,
CLITUS. O Dardanius!
CLITUS. Statilius show'd the torchlight, but, my lord,
CLITUS. What ill request did Brutus make to thee?
CLITUS. What, I, my lord? No, not for all the world.
CONSTANCE.  [Rising]  A wicked day, and not a holy day!
CONSTANCE. And for mine too; when law can do no right,
CONSTANCE. Gone to be married! Gone to swear a peace!
CONSTANCE. Grief fills the room up of my absent child,
CONSTANCE. He talks to me that never had a son.
CONSTANCE. If thou that bid'st me be content wert grim,
CONSTANCE. Lo now! now see the issue of your peace!
CONSTANCE. Look to that, devil, lest that France repent
CONSTANCE. No, I defy all counsel, all redress,
CONSTANCE. No, no, I will not, having breath to cry.
CONSTANCE. O Lewis, stand fast! The devil tempts thee here
CONSTANCE. O be remov'd from him, and answer well!
CONSTANCE. O fair return of banish'd majesty!
CONSTANCE. O, if thou grant my need,
CONSTANCE. O, if thou teach me to believe this sorrow,
CONSTANCE. O, lawful let it be
CONSTANCE. O, upon my knee,
CONSTANCE. That which upholdeth him that thee upholds,
CONSTANCE. Thou art not holy to belie me so.
CONSTANCE. Thou mayst, thou shalt; I will not go with thee;
CONSTANCE. To England, if you will.
CONSTANCE. War! war! no peace! Peace is to me a war.
CONSTANCE. What should he say, but as the Cardinal?
CONSTANCE. Which harm within itself so heinous is
CONSTANCE. Yes, that I will; and wherefore will I do it?
CONSTANCE. You have beguil'd me with a counterfeit
Cor. Ay, good my lord.
Cor. Good my lord,
Cor. I yet beseech your Majesty,
Cor. Nothing, my lord.
Cor. Nothing.
Cor. Peace be with Burgundy!
Cor. So young, my lord, and true.
Cor. The jewels of our father, with wash'd eyes
Cor. Time shall unfold what plighted cunning hides.
Cor. Unhappy that I am, I cannot heave
Cor. [aside] Then poor Cordelia!
Cor. [aside] What shall Cordelia speak? Love, and be silent.
Corn. 'Tis best to give him way; he leads himself.
Corn. Fetch forth the stocks!
Corn. Fetch forth the stocks! As I have life and honour,
Corn. Fie, sir, fie!
Corn. Followed the old man forth.
Corn. Hail to your Grace!
Corn. How now, my noble friend? Since I came hither
Corn. I set him there, sir; but his own disorders
Corn. I'll answer that.
Corn. If he be taken, he shall never more
Corn. Is he pursued?
Corn. Keep peace, upon your lives!
Corn. Let us withdraw; 'twill be a storm.
Corn. No more perchance does mine, or his, or hers.
Corn. Nor I, assure thee, Regan.
Corn. Peace, sirrah!
Corn. Shut up your doors, my lord: 'tis a wild night.
Corn. Speak yet, how grew your quarrel?
Corn. This is a fellow of the selfsame colour
Corn. This is some fellow
Corn. Thou art a strange fellow. A tailor make a man?
Corn. What is your difference? Speak.
Corn. What mean'st by this?
Corn. What means your Grace?
Corn. What trumpet's that?
Corn. What was th' offence you gave him?
Corn. What, art thou mad, old fellow?
Corn. Whither is he going?
Corn. Why art thou angry?
Corn. Why dost thou call him knave? What is his fault?
Corn. You know not why we came to visit you-
Cur. And you, sir. I have been with your father, and given him
Cur. Have you heard of no likely wars toward 'twixt the two Dukes
Cur. Nay, I know not. You have heard of the news abroad- I mean the
Cur. You may do, then, in time. Fare you well, sir.      Exit.
DARDANIUS,    "    "     "
DARDANIUS. O Clitus!
DARDANIUS. Shall I do such a deed?
DARDANIUS. To kill him, Clitus. Look, he meditates.
DECIUS BRUTUS,       "          "     "
DECIUS. And Cassius too.
DECIUS. Caesar, all hail! Good morrow, worthy Caesar!
DECIUS. Great Caesar-
DECIUS. Here lies the east. Doth not the day break here?
DECIUS. I have, when you have heard what I can say.
DECIUS. Most mighty Caesar, let me know some cause,
DECIUS. Never fear that. If he be so resolved,
DECIUS. Shall no man else be touch'd but only Caesar?
DECIUS. This dream is all amiss interpreted;
DECIUS. Trebonius doth desire you to o'er read,
DECIUS. What, shall we forth?
DECIUS. Where is Metellus Cimber? Let him
ELINOR. Come hither, little kinsman; hark, a word.
ELINOR. Farewell, gentle cousin.
ELINOR. Look'st thou pale, France? Do not let go thy hand.
ELINOR. My blessing go with thee!
ELINOR. O foul revolt of French inconstancy!
ELINOR. Son, list to this conjunction, make this match;
EXECUTIONER. I am best pleas'd to be from such a deed.
EXECUTIONER. I hope your warrant will bear out the deed.
Edg. A servingman, proud in heart and mind; that curl'd my hair,
Edg. Arm'd, brother?
Edg. Away! the foul fiend follows me! Through the sharp hawthorn
Edg. Ay, two hours together.
Edg. Do you busy yourself with that?
Edg. How long have you been a sectary astronomical?
Edg. How now, brother Edmund? What serious contemplation are you
Edg. How to prevent the fiend and to kill vermin.
Edg. I am sure on't, not a word.
Edg. I heard myself proclaim'd,
Edg. None at all.
Edg. Pillicock sat on Pillicock's Hill. 'Allow, 'allow, loo, loo!
Edg. Poor Tom 's acold.
Edg. Poor Tom, that eats the swimming frog, the toad, the todpole,
Edg. Shall I hear from you anon?
Edg. Some villain hath done me wrong.
Edg. Take heed o' th' foul fiend; obey thy parents: keep thy word
Edg. The night gone by.
Edg. The prince of darkness is a gentleman!
Edg. This is the foul fiend Flibbertigibbet. He begins at curfew,
Edg. Who gives anything to poor Tom? whom the foul fiend hath led
Edg. [within] Fathom and half, fathom and half! Poor Tom!
Edm. 'Twas my duty, sir.
Edm. Bethink yourself wherein you may have offended him; and at my
Edm. Brother, I advise you to the best. Go arm'd. I am no honest man
Edm. Come, come! When saw you my father last?
Edm. Fled this way, sir. When by no means he could-
Edm. Here stood he in the dark, his sharp sword out,
Edm. How comes that?
Edm. How now? What's the matter?                 Parts [them].
Edm. I am thinking, brother, of a prediction I read this other day,
Edm. I beseech you, sir, pardon me. It is a letter from my brother
Edm. I do not well know, my lord. If it shall please you to suspend
Edm. I do serve you in this business.
Edm. I hear my father coming. Pardon me!
Edm. I hope, for my brother's justification, he wrote this but as
Edm. I know no news, my lord.
Edm. I promise you, the effects he writes of succeed unhappily: as
Edm. I shall offend, either to detain or give it. The contents, as
Edm. I shall serve you, sir,
Edm. I will seek him, sir, presently; convey the business as I
Edm. If the matter were good, my lord, I durst swear it were his;
Edm. If your honour judge it meet, I will place you where you shall
Edm. It is his hand, my lord; but I hope his heart is not in the
Edm. It was not brought me, my lord: there's the cunning of it. I
Edm. Look, sir, I bleed.
Edm. Most savage and unnatural!
Edm. My services to your lordship.
Edm. Never, my lord. But I have heard him oft maintain it to be fit
Edm. Nor is not, sure.
Edm. Not I. Pray you, what are they?
Edm. Not a word.
Edm. Nothing, my lord.
Edm. Parted you in good terms? Found you no displeasure in him by
Edm. Persuade me to the murther of your lordship;
Edm. Save thee, Curan.
Edm. Sir, I shall study deserving.
Edm. So please your lordship, none.
Edm. Spake you with him?
Edm. That's my fear. I pray you have a continent forbearance till
Edm. The Duke be here to-night? The better! best!
Edm. This courtesy, forbid thee, shall the Duke
Edm. This is the excellent foppery of the world, that, when we are
Edm. Thou, Nature, art my goddess; to thy law
Edm. When I dissuaded him from his intent
Edm. Yes, madam, he was of that consort.
Edm. [comes forward] No, my lord.
FIRST CITIZEN. As a friend or an enemy?
FIRST CITIZEN. Ay, and briefly.
FIRST CITIZEN. Bring him with triumph home unto his house.
FIRST CITIZEN. I will hear Brutus speak.
FIRST CITIZEN. If it be found so, some will dear abide it.
FIRST CITIZEN. Methinks there is much reason in his sayings.
FIRST CITIZEN. Never, never. Come, away, away!
FIRST CITIZEN. O most bloody sight!
FIRST CITIZEN. O piteous spectacle!
FIRST CITIZEN. Peace there! Hear the noble Antony.
FIRST CITIZEN. Peace, ho!
FIRST CITIZEN. Stand from the hearse, stand from the body.
FIRST CITIZEN. Stay, ho, and let us hear Mark Antony.
FIRST CITIZEN. Tear him to pieces, he's a conspirator.
FIRST CITIZEN. This Caesar was a tyrant.
FIRST CITIZEN. We'll bring him to his house with shouts and
FIRST CITIZEN. We'll burn the house of Brutus.
FIRST CITIZEN. What is your name?
FIRST COMMONER. Why, sir, a carpenter.
FIRST SOLDIER. I'll tell the news. Here comes the general.
FIRST SOLDIER. Stand!
FIRST SOLDIER. We must not. A noble prisoner!
FIRST SOLDIER. Yield, or thou diest.
FLAVIUS, tribune
FLAVIUS. But wherefore art not in thy shop today?
FLAVIUS. Go, go, good countrymen, and, for this fault,
FLAVIUS. Hence, home, you idle creatures, get you home.
FLAVIUS. It is no matter; let no images
FLAVIUS. Thou art a cobbler, art thou?
FOURTH CITIZEN. 'Twere best he speak no harm of Brutus here.
FOURTH CITIZEN. A ring, stand round.
FOURTH CITIZEN. Are you a married man or a bachelor?
FOURTH CITIZEN. Ay, and wisely.
FOURTH CITIZEN. Caesar's better parts
FOURTH CITIZEN. For your dwelling, briefly.
FOURTH CITIZEN. It is no matter, his name's Cinna. Pluck but his
FOURTH CITIZEN. Mark'd ye his words? He would not take the crown;
FOURTH CITIZEN. Now mark him, he begins again to speak.
FOURTH CITIZEN. O traitors villains!
FOURTH CITIZEN. Pluck down forms, windows, anything.
FOURTH CITIZEN. Read the will; we'll hear it, Antony.
FOURTH CITIZEN. Tear him for his bad verses, tear him for his bad
FOURTH CITIZEN. They were traitors. Honorable men!
FOURTH CITIZEN. We'll hear the will. Read it, Mark Antony.
FOURTH CITIZEN. What does he say of Brutus?
Fill, Lucius, till the wine o'erswell the cup;
Flourish. Enter Gloucester, with France and Burgundy; Attendants.
Fool.   That lord that counsell'd thee
Fool. A spirit, a spirit! He says his name's poor Tom.
Fool. All thy other titles thou hast given away; that thou wast
Fool. An thou hadst been set i' th' stocks for that question,
Fool. Canst tell how an oyster makes his shell?
Fool. Come not in here, nuncle, here's a spirit. Help me, help me!
Fool. Cry to it, nuncle, as the cockney did to the eels when she
Fool. Dost thou know the difference, my boy, between a bitter
Fool. For you know, nuncle,
Fool. Ha, ha! look! he wears cruel garters. Horses are tied by the
Fool. He that has a house to put 's head in has a good head-piece.
Fool. I have us'd it, nuncle, ever since thou mad'st thy daughters
Fool. I marvel what kin thou and thy daughters are. They'll have me
Fool. If I gave them all my living, I'ld keep my coxcombs myself.
Fool. If a man's brains were in's heels, were't not in danger of
Fool. If thou wert my fool, nuncle, I'ld have thee beaten for being
Fool. Lear's shadow.
Fool. Let me hire him too. Here's my coxcomb.
Fool. Mark it, nuncle.
Fool. Marry, here's grace and a codpiece; that's a wise man and a
Fool. May not an ass know when the cart draws the horse?
Fool. Nay, he reserv'd a blanket, else we had been all sham'd.
Fool. No, faith; lords and great men will not let me. If I had a
Fool. Nor I neither; but I can tell why a snail has a house.
Fool. Not i' th' stocks, fool.
Fool. Nuncle Lear, nuncle Lear, tarry! Take the fool with thee.
Fool. O nuncle, court holy water in a dry house is better than this
Fool. Prithee, nuncle, be contented! 'Tis a naughty night to swim
Fool. Shalt see thy other daughter will use thee kindly; for though
Fool. She that's a maid now, and laughs at my departure,
Fool. She'll taste as like this as a crab does to a crab. Thou
Fool. Sirrah, I'll teach thee a speech.
Fool. Sirrah, you were best take my coxcomb.
Fool. Then 'tis like the breath of an unfeed lawyer- you gave me
Fool. Then I prithee be merry. Thy wit shall ne'er go slip-shod.
Fool. This cold night will turn us all to fools and madmen.
Fool. This is a brave night to cool a courtesan. I'll speak a
Fool. Thou shouldst not have been old till thou hadst been wise.
Fool. Thou wast a pretty fellow when thou hadst no need to care for
Fool. Thy asses are gone about 'em. The reason why the seven stars
Fool. Truth's a dog must to kennel; he must be whipp'd out, when
Fool. We'll set thee to school to an ant, to teach thee there's no
Fool. Which they will make an obedient father.
Fool. Why, after I have cut the egg i' th' middle and eat up the
Fool. Why, to keep one's eyes of either side's nose, that what a
Fool. Why, to put's head in; not to give it away to his daughters,
Fool. Why? For taking one's part that's out of favour. Nay, an thou
Fool. Winter's not gone yet, if the wild geese fly that way.
Fool. Yes indeed. Thou wouldst make a good fool.
Fool. [sings]
Fool. [to Kent] Prithee tell him, so much the rent of his land
France. Bid farewell to your sisters.
France. Come, my fair Cordelia.
France. Fairest Cordelia, that art most rich, being poor;
France. Is it but this- a tardiness in nature
France. This is most strange,
GHOST. Ay, at Philippi.
GHOST. Thy evil spirit, Brutus.
GHOST. To tell thee thou shalt see me at Philippi.
Gent. As I learn'd,
Gent. Contending with the fretful elements;
Gent. Give me your hand. Have you no more to say?
Gent. I will talk further with you.
Gent. Made you no more offence but what you speak of?
Gent. None but the fool, who labours to outjest
Gent. One minded like the weather, most unquietly.
Gent. Ready, my lord.
Glou. (reads) 'This policy and reverence of age makes the world
Glou. Alack, alack, Edmund, I like not this unnatural dealing! When
Glou. Alack, the night comes on, and the bleak winds
Glou. Ay, my good lord.
Glou. Ay, my good lord.
Glou. But I have, sir, a son by order of law, some year elder than
Glou. But where is he?
Glou. For him I thank your Grace.
Glou. Give me the letter, sir.
Glou. Go in with me. My duty cannot suffer
Glou. Go to; say you nothing. There is division betwixt the Dukes,
Glou. Hath he never before sounded you in this business?
Glou. He calls to horse, but will I know not whither.
Glou. He cannot be such a monster.
Glou. He did bewray his practice, and receiv'd
Glou. He hath been out nine years, and away he shall again.
Glou. Here's France and Burgundy, my noble lord.
Glou. His breeding, sir, hath been at my charge. I have so often
Glou. How fell you out? Say that.
Glou. I am sorry for thee, friend. 'Tis the Duke's pleasure,
Glou. I know not, madam. 'Tis too bad, too bad!
Glou. I serve you, madam.
Glou. I shall, my liege.
Glou. I would have all well betwixt you.                 Exit.
Glou. It did always seem so to us; but now, in the division of the
Glou. It is his.
Glou. Kent banish'd thus? and France in choler parted?
Glou. Let him fly far.
Glou. Let me beseech your Grace not to do so.
Glou. Let's see, let's see!
Glou. My Lord of Kent. Remember him hereafter as my honourable
Glou. My dear lord,
Glou. No? What needed then that terrible dispatch of it into your
Glou. Now, Edmund, where's the villain?
Glou. O lady, lady, shame would have it hid!
Glou. O madam, my old heart is crack'd, it's crack'd!
Glou. O villain, villain! His very opinion in the letter! Abhorred
Glou. Our flesh and blood is grown so vile, my lord,
Glou. Pursue him, ho! Go after.        [Exeunt some Servants].
Glou. Sir, this young fellow's mother could; whereupon she grew
Glou. Strong and fast'ned villain!
Glou. The Duke 's to blame in this; 'twill be ill taken.
Glou. The King is in high rage.
Glou. These late eclipses in the sun and moon portend no good to
Glou. Think you so?
Glou. To his father, that so tenderly and entirely loves him.
Glou. Weapons? arms? What's the matter here?
Glou. Well, my good lord, I have inform'd them so.
Glou. What are you there? Your names?
Glou. What paper were you reading?
Glou. What, hath your Grace no better company?
Glou. Where is the villain, Edmund?
Glou. Why so earnestly seek you to put up that letter?
Glou. You know the character to be your brother's?
Gon. 'Tis his own blame; hath put himself from rest
Gon. And let his knights have colder looks among you.
Gon. At your choice, sir.
Gon. By day and night, he wrongs me! Every hour
Gon. Come, sir,
Gon. Did my father strike my gentleman for chiding of his fool?
Gon. Do you mark that, my lord?
Gon. Hear, me, my lord.
Gon. My lord, entreat him by no means to stay.
Gon. Nay then-
Gon. Never afflict yourself to know the cause;
Gon. Not only, sir, this your all-licens'd fool,
Gon. Pray you, content.- What, Oswald, ho!
Gon. Prescribe not us our duties.
Gon. Put on what weary negligence you please,
Gon. Safer than trust too far.
Gon. Sir, I love you more than words can wield the matter;
Gon. Sister, it is not little I have to say of what most nearly
Gon. So am I purpos'd.
Gon. Take you some company, and away to horse!
Gon. The best and soundest of his time hath been but rash; then
Gon. There is further compliment of leave-taking between France and
Gon. This admiration, sir, is much o' th' savour
Gon. This man hath had good counsel! A hundred knights?
Gon. We must do something, and i' th' heat.
Gon. Why might not you, my lord, receive attendance
Gon. Why not by th' hand, sir? How have I offended?
Gon. You see how full of changes his age is. The observation we
Gon. You strike my people, and your disorder'd rabble
HUBERT.  [Aside]  His words do take possession of my bosom.-
HUBERT.  [Aside]  If I talk to him, with his innocent prate
HUBERT.  [Stamps]  Come forth.
HUBERT. 'Tis not an hour since I left him well.
HUBERT. A monk, I tell you; a resolved villain,
HUBERT. And I will.
HUBERT. And I'll keep him so
HUBERT. Arm you against your other enemies,
HUBERT. Badly, I fear. How fares your Majesty?
HUBERT. But with my breath I can revive it, boy.
HUBERT. Come, boy, prepare yourself.
HUBERT. Do but hear me, sir.
HUBERT. Do not prove me so.
HUBERT. Give me the iron, I say, and bind him here.
HUBERT. Go, stand within; let me alone with him.
HUBERT. Good morrow, little Prince.
HUBERT. He shall not live.
HUBERT. Heat me these irons hot; and look thou stand
HUBERT. Here is your hand and seal for what I did.
HUBERT. I am much bounden to your Majesty.
HUBERT. I am no villain.
HUBERT. I can heat it, boy.
HUBERT. I have sworn to do it;
HUBERT. If I in act, consent, or sin of thought,
HUBERT. Indeed I have been merrier.
HUBERT. Is this your promise? Go to, hold your tongue.
HUBERT. Lord Bigot, I am none.
HUBERT. Lords, I am hot with haste in seeking you.
HUBERT. My lord, they say five moons were seen to-night;
HUBERT. My lord-
HUBERT. My lord?
HUBERT. No had, my lord! Why, did you not provoke me?
HUBERT. None, but to lose your eyes.
HUBERT. Not for my life; but yet I dare defend
HUBERT. O, my sweet sir, news fitting to the night,
HUBERT. Of the part of England.
HUBERT. Old men and beldams in the streets
HUBERT. Peace; no more. Adieu.
HUBERT. Silence; no more. Go closely in with me.
HUBERT. So well that what you bid me undertake,
HUBERT. Stand back, Lord Salisbury, stand back, I say;
HUBERT. The King, I fear, is poison'd by a monk;
HUBERT. Thou hast a perfect thought.
HUBERT. Uncleanly scruples! Fear not you. Look to't.
HUBERT. Unkind remembrance! thou and eyeless night
HUBERT. Upon my soul-
HUBERT. Well, see to live; I will not touch thine eye
HUBERT. What's that to thee? Why may I not demand
HUBERT. Who's there? Speak, ho! speak quickly, or I shoot.
HUBERT. Why, here walk I in the black brow of night
HUBERT. Why, know you not? The lords are all come back,
HUBERT. Young boy, I must.
I cannot drink too much of Brutus' love.               Drinks.
JULIUS CAESAR, Roman statesman and general
KING JOHN.  [To ARTHUR]  For England, cousin, go;
KING JOHN.  [To ELINOR]  So shall it be; your Grace shall stay
KING JOHN.  [To the BASTARD]  Cousin, away for England! haste
KING JOHN. A grave.
KING JOHN. Ay me, this tyrant fever burns me up
KING JOHN. Ay, marry, now my soul hath elbow-room;
KING JOHN. Bear with me, cousin, for I was amaz'd
KING JOHN. Come hither, Hubert. O my gentle Hubert,
KING JOHN. Cousin, go draw our puissance together.
KING JOHN. Coz, farewell.
KING JOHN. Death.
KING JOHN. Do not I know thou wouldst?
KING JOHN. Doth Arthur live? O, haste thee to the peers,
KING JOHN. Enough!
KING JOHN. Five moons!
KING JOHN. France, thou shalt rue this hour within this hour.
KING JOHN. Gentle kinsman, go
KING JOHN. Good friend, thou hast no cause to say so yet,
KING JOHN. Hadst thou but shook thy head or made pause,
KING JOHN. Have thou the ordering of this present time.
KING JOHN. Here once again we sit, once again crown'd,
KING JOHN. How goes the day with us? O, tell me, Hubert.
KING JOHN. Hubert, away with him; imprison him;
KING JOHN. Hubert, keep this boy. Philip, make up:
KING JOHN. If that the Dauphin there, thy princely son,
KING JOHN. Is this Ascension-day? Did not the prophet
KING JOHN. It is the curse of kings to be attended
KING JOHN. Let it be so. I do commit his youth
KING JOHN. My mother dead!
KING JOHN. Nay, but make haste; the better foot before.
KING JOHN. No more than he that threats. To arms let's hie!
KING JOHN. Now keep your holy word; go meet the French;
KING JOHN. O cousin, thou art come to set mine eye!
KING JOHN. O, when the last account 'twixt heaven and earth
KING JOHN. O, where hath our intelligence been drunk?
KING JOHN. Philip, what say'st thou to the Cardinal?
KING JOHN. Poison'd-ill-fare! Dead, forsook, cast off;
KING JOHN. Some reasons of this double coronation
KING JOHN. Speak then, Prince Dauphin; can you love this lady?
KING JOHN. Spoke like a sprightful noble gentleman.
KING JOHN. Tell him, toward Swinstead, to the abbey there.
KING JOHN. That villain Hubert told me he did live.
KING JOHN. The King is mov'd, and answers not to this.
KING JOHN. The legate of the Pope hath been with me,
KING JOHN. The salt in them is hot.
KING JOHN. Then do I give Volquessen, Touraine, Maine,
KING JOHN. They burn in indignation. I repent.
KING JOHN. This fever that hath troubled me so long
KING JOHN. Thou hast made me giddy
KING JOHN. Thou idle dreamer, wherefore didst thou so?
KING JOHN. Though you and all the kings of Christendom
KING JOHN. Thus have I yielded up into your hand
KING JOHN. We cannot hold mortality's strong hand.
KING JOHN. We like not this: thou dost forget thyself.
KING JOHN. We will heal up all,
KING JOHN. What earthly name to interrogatories
KING JOHN. What say these young ones? What say you, my niece?
KING JOHN. Why do you bend such solemn brows on me?
KING JOHN. Why seek'st thou to possess me with these fears?
KING JOHN. Withhold thy speed, dreadful occasion!
KING JOHN. Would not my lords return to me again
KING PHILIP. 'Tis true, fair daughter, and this blessed day
KING PHILIP. And, by my faith, this league that we have made
KING PHILIP. Bind up those tresses. O, what love I note
KING PHILIP. Bind up your hairs.
KING PHILIP. Brother of England, you blaspheme in this.
KING PHILIP. By heaven, lady, you shall have no cause
KING PHILIP. Good reverend father, make my person yours,
KING PHILIP. Here comes the holy legate of the Pope.
KING PHILIP. I am perplex'd and know not what to say.
KING PHILIP. I fear some outrage, and I'll follow her.         Exit
KING PHILIP. I may disjoin my hand, but not my faith.
KING PHILIP. It likes us well; young princes, close your hands.
KING PHILIP. Now, citizens of Angiers, ope your gates,
KING PHILIP. O fair affliction, peace!
KING PHILIP. Patience, good lady! Comfort, gentle Constance!
KING PHILIP. So by a roaring tempest on the flood
KING PHILIP. Speak England first, that hath been forward first
KING PHILIP. Thou shalt not need. England, I will fall from thee.
KING PHILIP. Thy rage shall burn thee up, and thou shalt turn
KING PHILIP. Well could I bear that England had this praise,
KING PHILIP. What can go well, when we have run so ill.
KING PHILIP. What say'st thou, boy? Look in the lady's face.
KING PHILIP. You are as fond of grief as of your child.
Kent. A knave; a rascal; an eater of broken meats; a base, proud,
Kent. A man, sir.
Kent. A very honest-hearted fellow, and as poor as the King.
Kent. Alack, bareheaded?
Kent. Alas, sir, are you here? Things that love night
Kent. Authority.
Kent. Ay, a tailor, sir. A stonecutter or a painter could not have
Kent. Ay.
Kent. But who is with him?
Kent. By Juno, I swear ay!
Kent. Come, sir, arise, away! I'll teach you differences. Away,
Kent. Do!
Kent. Draw, you rascal! You come with letters against the King, and
Kent. Fare thee well, King. Since thus thou wilt appear,
Kent. Fellow, I know thee.
Kent. Few words, but, to effect, more than all yet:
Kent. Give me thy hand. Who's there?
Kent. Good King, that must approve the common saw,
Kent. Good my liege-
Kent. Good my lord, enter here.
Kent. Good my lord, enter here.
Kent. Good my lord, take his offer; go into th' house.
Kent. Hail to thee, noble master!
Kent. He hath no daughters, sir.
Kent. Here is the place, my lord. Good my lord, enter.
Kent. His countenance likes me not.
Kent. How fares your Grace?
Kent. I can keep honest counsel, ride, run, mar a curious tale in
Kent. I cannot conceive you.
Kent. I cannot wish the fault undone, the issue of it being so
Kent. I do profess to be no less than I seem, to serve him truly
Kent. I had rather break mine own. Good my lord, enter.
Kent. I know you. Where's the King?
Kent. I love thee not.
Kent. I must love you, and sue to know you better.
Kent. I say yea.
Kent. I thought the King had more affected the Duke of Albany than
Kent. I will not sleep, my lord, till I have delivered your letter.
Kent. I' th' mire.
Kent. If I had thee in Lipsbury Pinfold, I would make thee care for
Kent. If but as well I other accents borrow,
Kent. Importune him once more to go, my lord.
Kent. Is not this your son, my lord?
Kent. It is both he and she-
Kent. Let it fall rather, though the fork invade
Kent. My life I never held but as a pawn
Kent. My lord, when at their home
Kent. No contraries hold more antipathy
Kent. No marvel, you have so bestirr'd your valour. You cowardly
Kent. No, do not.
Kent. No, my lord.
Kent. No, sir; but you have that in your countenance which I would
Kent. None of these rogues and cowards
Kent. None.
Kent. Nor tripp'd neither, you base football player?
Kent. Not so young, sir, to love a woman for singing, nor so old to
Kent. Now by Apollo, King,
Kent. Pray do not, sir. I have watch'd and travell'd hard.
Kent. Royal Lear,
Kent. See better, Lear, and let me still remain
Kent. Service.
Kent. Sir, 'tis my occupation to be plain.
Kent. Sir, I am too old to learn.
Kent. Sir, I do know you,
Kent. Sir, in good faith, in sincere verity,
Kent. Strike, you slave! Stand, rogue! Stand, you neat slave!
Kent. That such a slave as this should wear a sword,
Kent. This is not altogether fool, my lord.
Kent. This is nothing, fool.
Kent. Thou whoreson zed! thou unnecessary letter! My lord, if
Kent. To go out of my dialect, which you discommend so much. I
Kent. What a brazen-fac'd varlet art thou, to deny thou knowest me!
Kent. What art thou that dost grumble there i' th' straw?
Kent. Where learn'd you this, fool?
Kent. Who's there, besides foul weather?
Kent. Who's there?
Kent. Who's there? What is't you seek?
Kent. Why, fool?
Kent. Why, fool?
Kent. Why, madam, if I were your father's dog,
Kent. With the Earl, sir, here within.
Kent. With you, goodman boy, an you please! Come, I'll flesh ye!
Kent. Yes, sir, but anger hath a privilege.
Kent. Yes, they have.
Kent. Yes.
Kent. You.
Knight. He says, my lord, your daughter is not well.
Knight. I beseech you pardon me, my lord, if I be mistaken; for
Knight. My lord, I know not what the matter is; but to my judgment
Knight. Since my young lady's going into France, sir, the fool
Knight. Sir, he answered me in the roundest manner, he would not.
LEPIDUS, third member of the Triumvirate
LEPIDUS. I do consent-
LEPIDUS. Upon condition Publius shall not live,
LEPIDUS. What, shall I find you here?
LEWIS. A noble temper dost thou show in this;
LEWIS. Ah, foul shrewd news! Beshrew thy very heart!
LEWIS. All days of glory, joy, and happiness.
LEWIS. And lose it, life and all, as Arthur did.
LEWIS. As heartily as he is glad he hath him.
LEWIS. Bethink you, father; for the difference
LEWIS. But what shall I gain by young Arthur's fall?
LEWIS. Father, to arms!
LEWIS. Here; what news?
LEWIS. I do, my lord, and in her eye I find
LEWIS. I muse your Majesty doth seem so cold,
LEWIS. Lady, with me, with me thy fortune lies.
LEWIS. May be he will not touch young Arthur's life,
LEWIS. My Lord Melun, let this be copied out
LEWIS. Nay, ask me if I can refrain from love;
LEWIS. Outside or inside, I will not return
LEWIS. She is sad and passionate at your Highness' tent.
LEWIS. Strike up our drums to find this danger out.
LEWIS. Strong reasons makes strong actions. Let us go;
LEWIS. The sun of heaven, methought, was loath to set,
LEWIS. There end thy brave, and turn thy face in peace;
LEWIS. There's nothing in this world can make me joy.
LEWIS. We will attend to neither.
LEWIS. Your Grace shall pardon me, I will not back:
LEWIS. he hath won, that hath he fortified;
LEWIS. keep good quarter and good care to-night;
LIGARIUS. But are not some whole that we must make sick?
LIGARIUS. By all the gods that Romans bow before,
LIGARIUS. I am not sick, if Brutus have in hand
LIGARIUS. Set on your foot,
LIGARIUS. Vouchsafe good morrow from a feeble tongue.
LUCILIUS,     "     "    "
LUCILIUS. Give the word, ho, and stand.
LUCILIUS. He is at hand, and Pindarus is come
LUCILIUS. O young and noble Cato, art thou down?
LUCILIUS. Only I yield to die.
LUCILIUS. Safe, Antony, Brutus is safe enough.
LUCILIUS. So Brutus should be found. I thank thee, Brutus,
LUCILIUS. They meant his night in Sard is to be quarter'd;
LUCILIUS. With courtesy and with respect enough,
LUCILIUS. [Stands forth.] My lord?
LUCILIUS. [Within.] You shall not come to them.
LUCIUS,       "    "     "
LUCIUS. Ay, my lord, an't please you.
LUCIUS. Call'd you, my lord?
LUCIUS. Here in the tent.
LUCIUS. Here is a sick man that would speak with you.
LUCIUS. I have slept, my lord, already.
LUCIUS. I hear none, madam.
LUCIUS. I know not, sir.
LUCIUS. I was sure your lordship did not give it me.
LUCIUS. I will, my lord.                                 Exit.
LUCIUS. I will, sir.                                     Exit.
LUCIUS. It is my duty, sir.
LUCIUS. Madam, what should I do?
LUCIUS. My lord, I do not know that I did cry.
LUCIUS. My lord?
LUCIUS. No, sir, their hats are pluck'd about their ears,
LUCIUS. No, sir, there are more with him.
LUCIUS. Nothing, my lord.
LUCIUS. Sir, 'tis your brother Cassius at the door,
LUCIUS. Sir, March is wasted fifteen days.
LUCIUS. Sooth, madam, I hear nothing.
LUCIUS. The strings, my lord, are false.
LUCIUS. The taper burneth in your closet, sir.
LUCIUS. To know my errand, madam.
LUCIUS. Varro and Claudio!
Lear. 'My lady's father'? My lord's knave! You whoreson dog! you
Lear. 'Tis strange that they should so depart from home,
Lear. A bitter fool!
Lear. A pestilent gall to me!
Lear. An you lie, sirrah, we'll have you whipp'd.
Lear. Are you our daughter?
Lear. Ask her forgiveness?
Lear. Attend the lords of France and Burgundy, Gloucester.
Lear. Ay, boy.
Lear. Because they are not eight?
Lear. Better thou
Lear. Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! rage! blow!
Lear. But goes thy heart with this?
Lear. By Jupiter, I swear no!
Lear. Come, boy.
Lear. Darkness and devils!
Lear. Death, traitor! nothing could have subdu'd nature
Lear. Deny to speak with me? They are sick? they are weary?
Lear. Do you bandy looks with me, you rascal?
Lear. Do.
Lear. Dost thou call me fool, boy?
Lear. Dost thou know me, fellow?
Lear. Doth any here know me? This is not Lear.
Lear. First let me talk with this philosopher.
Lear. Follow me not;
Lear. Follow me; thou shalt serve me. If I like thee no worse after
Lear. Go you before to Gloucester with these letters. Acquaint my
Lear. Good morrow to you both.
Lear. Ha!
Lear. Ha! say'st thou so?
Lear. Ha, ha, ha!
Lear. Hast thou given all to thy two daughters, and art thou come
Lear. He would not?
Lear. Hear me, recreant!
Lear. How now, daughter? What makes that frontlet on? Methinks you
Lear. How now, my pretty knave? How dost thou?
Lear. How old art thou?
Lear. How's that?
Lear. How, how, Cordelia? Mend your speech a little,
Lear. I did her wrong.
Lear. I gave you all-
Lear. I prithee, daughter, do not make me mad.
Lear. I thank thee, fellow. Thou serv'st me, and I'll love thee.
Lear. I will forget my nature. So kind a father!- Be my horses
Lear. I would learn that; for, by the marks of sovereignty,
Lear. I'll talk a word with this same learned Theban.
Lear. I'll tell thee. [To Goneril] Life and death! I am asham'd
Lear. If thou be'st as poor for a subject as he's for a king, thou
Lear. Inform'd them? Dost thou understand me, man?
Lear. Is this well spoken?
Lear. It may be so, my lord.
Lear. Kent, on thy life, no more!
Lear. Let it be so! thy truth then be thy dower!
Lear. Let me alone.
Lear. Let me ask you one word in private.
Lear. Let me not stay a jot for dinner; go get it ready. [Exit
Lear. Let the great gods,
Lear. Made you my guardians, my depositaries;
Lear. Meantime we shall express our darker purpose.
Lear. My Lord of Burgundy,
Lear. My curses on her!
Lear. My wits begin to turn.
Lear. No more of that; I have noted it well. Go you and tell my
Lear. No, I say.
Lear. No, I will be the pattern of all patience;
Lear. No, Regan, thou shalt never have my curse.
Lear. No, lad; teach me.
Lear. No, no, they would not!
Lear. No.
Lear. No.
Lear. No.
Lear. Nothing can come of nothing. Speak again.
Lear. Nothing! I have sworn; I am firm.
Lear. Nothing?
Lear. Now all the plagues that in the pendulous air
Lear. Now by Apollo-
Lear. Now, my friendly knave, I thank thee. There's earnest of thy
Lear. O me, my heart, my rising heart! But down!
Lear. O sides, you are too tough!
Lear. O vassal! miscreant!
Lear. O, how this mother swells up toward my heart!
Lear. O, let me not be mad, not mad, sweet heaven!
Lear. O, reason not the need! Our basest beggars
Lear. Of all these bounds, even from this line to this,
Lear. Out of my sight!
Lear. Peace, Kent!
Lear. Prithee go in thyself; seek thine own ease.
Lear. Regan, I think you are; I know what reason
Lear. Return to her, and fifty men dismiss'd?
Lear. Right noble Burgundy,
Lear. Rumble thy bellyful! Spit, fire! spout, rain!
Lear. Say, how is that?
Lear. So young, and so untender?
Lear. Take heed, sirrah- the whip.
Lear. The King would speak with Cornwall; the dear father
Lear. The bow is bent and drawn; make from the shaft.
Lear. Then leave her, sir; for, by the pow'r that made me,
Lear. They durst not do't;
Lear. This is a slave, whose easy-borrowed pride
Lear. Those wicked creatures yet do look well-favour'd
Lear. Thou but rememb'rest me of mine own conception. I have
Lear. Thou hast her, France; let her be thine; for we
Lear. Thou think'st 'tis much that this contentious storm
Lear. To tak't again perforce! Monster ingratitude!
Lear. To thee and thine hereditary ever
Lear. True, my good boy. Come, bring us to this hovel.
Lear. Vengeance! plague! death! confusion!
Lear. What art thou?
Lear. What canst tell, boy?
Lear. What dost thou profess? What wouldst thou with us?
Lear. What hast thou been?
Lear. What says the fellow there? Call the clotpoll back.
Lear. What services canst thou do?
Lear. What two crowns shall they be?
Lear. What's he that hath so much thy place mistook
Lear. What's he?
Lear. What's that?
Lear. What, fifty of my followers at a clap?
Lear. What, have his daughters brought him to this pass?
Lear. When were you wont to be so full of songs, sirrah?
Lear. Who put my man i' th' stocks?
Lear. Who stock'd my servant? Regan, I have good hope
Lear. Who wouldst thou serve?
Lear. Why came not the slave back to me when I call'd him?
Lear. Why, my boy?
Lear. Why, no, boy. Nothing can be made out of nothing.
Lear. Why, thou wert better in thy grave than to answer with thy
Lear. Why?
Lear. Will you, with those infirmities she owes,
Lear. Wilt break my heart?
Lear. Woe that too late repents!- O, sir, are you come?
Lear. You nimble lightnings, dart your blinding flames
Lear. You? Did you?
Lear. Your name, fair gentlewoman?
Lear. [rises] Never, Regan!
Lear. [to Goneril] Detested kite, thou liest!
MARCUS BRUTUS, leader of the conspiracy against Caesar
MARK ANTONY, general and friend of Caesar, a Triumvir after his death
MARULLUS, tribune
MARULLUS. But what trade art thou? Answer me directly.
MARULLUS. May we do so?
MARULLUS. What mean'st thou by that? Mend me, thou saucy fellow!
MARULLUS. What trade, thou knave? Thou naughty knave, what trade?
MARULLUS. Where is thy leather apron and thy rule?
MARULLUS. Wherefore rejoice? What conquest brings he home?
MELUN. Fly, noble English, you are bought and sold;
MELUN. Have I not hideous death within my view,
MELUN. Lead me to the revolts of England here.
MESSALA,      "     "    "
MESSALA. Believe not so.
MESSALA. Cicero is dead,
MESSALA. Even so great men great losses should endure.
MESSALA. How died my master, Strato?
MESSALA. Is not that he that lies upon the ground?
MESSALA. Is not that he?
MESSALA. It is but change, Titinius, for Octavius
MESSALA. Lo, yonder, and Titinius mourning it.
MESSALA. Mistrust of good success hath done this deed.
MESSALA. My master's man. Strato, where is thy master?
MESSALA. Myself have letters of the selfsame tenure.
MESSALA. No, my lord.
MESSALA. Nor nothing in your letters writ of her?
MESSALA. Octavius, then take him to follow thee
MESSALA. Seek him, Titinius, whilst I go to meet
MESSALA. That by proscription and bills of outlawry
MESSALA. That, methinks, is strange.
MESSALA. Then like a Roman bear the truth I tell:
MESSALA. Where did you leave him?
MESSALA. [Stands forth.] What says my general?
MESSENGER. Be of good comfort; for the great supply
MESSENGER. From France to England. Never such a pow'r
MESSENGER. My liege, her ear
MESSENGER. My lord, your valiant kinsman, Faulconbridge,
MESSENGER. Prepare you, generals.
MESSENGER. The Count Melun is slain; the English lords
MESSENGER. Under the Dauphin.
MESSENGER. Where is my prince, the Dauphin?
MESSENGER. Whoever spoke it, it is true, my lord.
MESSENGER. With all my heart, my liege.                        Exit
METELLUS CIMBER,     "          "     "
METELLUS. Caius Ligarius doth bear Caesar hard,
METELLUS. Is there no voice more worthy than my own,
METELLUS. Most high, most mighty, and most puissant Caesar,
METELLUS. O, let us have him, for his silver hairs
METELLUS. Stand fast together, lest some friend of Caesar's
OCTAVIUS, Triumvir after Caesar's death, later Augustus Caesar,
OCTAVIUS. According to his virtue let us use him
OCTAVIUS. All that served Brutus, I will entertain them.
OCTAVIUS. Come, Antony, away!
OCTAVIUS. Come, come, the cause. If arguing make us sweat,
OCTAVIUS. Do so, good Messala.
OCTAVIUS. I do not cross you, but I will do so.
OCTAVIUS. Let us do so, for we are at the stake,
OCTAVIUS. Mark Antony, shall we give sign of battle?
OCTAVIUS. Not that we love words better, as you do.
OCTAVIUS. Now, Antony, our hopes are answered.
OCTAVIUS. Or here, or at the Capitol.            Exit Lepidus.
OCTAVIUS. Prick him down, Antony.
OCTAVIUS. So I hope,
OCTAVIUS. So you thought him,
OCTAVIUS. Stir not until the signal not until the signal.
OCTAVIUS. Upon the right hand I, keep thou the left.
OCTAVIUS. What man is that?
OCTAVIUS. You may do your will,
OCTAVIUS. Your brother too must die; consent you, Lepidus?
Osw. Away! I have nothing to do with thee.
Osw. Ay, madam.
Osw. Good dawning to thee, friend. Art of this house?
Osw. He's coming, madam; I hear him.
Osw. Help, ho! murther! help!
Osw. Help, ho! murther! murther!
Osw. I am none of these, my lord; I beseech your pardon.
Osw. I am scarce in breath, my lord.
Osw. I never gave him any.
Osw. I'll not be strucken, my lord.
Osw. My lady's father.
Osw. Prithee, if thou lov'st me, tell me.
Osw. So please you-                                      Exit.
Osw. This ancient ruffian, sir, whose life I have spar'd
Osw. Very well, madam.
Osw. What dost thou know me for?
Osw. Where may we set our horses?
Osw. Why dost thou use me thus? I know thee not.
Osw. Why then, I care not for thee.
Osw. Why, what a monstrous fellow art thou, thus to rail on one
Osw. Yes, madam.
PANDULPH.  [Gives back the crown]  Take again
PANDULPH. All form is formless, order orderless,
PANDULPH. Before the curing of a strong disease,
PANDULPH. Courage and comfort! All shall yet go well.
PANDULPH. Give me leave to speak.
PANDULPH. Hail, noble prince of France!
PANDULPH. Hail, you anointed deputies of heaven!
PANDULPH. How green you are and fresh in this old world!
PANDULPH. I will denounce a curse upon his head.
PANDULPH. If you had won it, certainly you had.
PANDULPH. It was my breath that blew this tempest up,
PANDULPH. Lady, you utter madness and not sorrow.
PANDULPH. O, Sir, when he shall hear of your approach,
PANDULPH. Philip of France, on peril of a curse,
PANDULPH. So mak'st thou faith an enemy to faith;
PANDULPH. The Dauphin is too wilful-opposite,
PANDULPH. Then by the lawful power that I have
PANDULPH. There's law and warrant, lady, for my curse.
PANDULPH. What canst thou say but will perplex thee more,
PANDULPH. You hold too heinous a respect of grief.
PANDULPH. You look but on the outside of this work.
PANDULPH. You, in the right of Lady Blanch your wife,
PANDULPH. Your mind is all as youthful as your blood.
PEMBROKE. All murders past do stand excus'd in this;
PEMBROKE. And when it breaks, I fear will issue thence
PEMBROKE. But that your royal pleasure must be done,
PEMBROKE. Cut him to pieces.
PEMBROKE. He is more patient
PEMBROKE. His Highness yet doth speak, and holds belief
PEMBROKE. Indeed, we heard how near his death he was,
PEMBROKE. It is the Count Melun.
PEMBROKE. O death, made proud with pure and princely beauty!
PEMBROKE. Sir, sir, impatience hath his privilege.
PEMBROKE. Stay yet, Lord Salisbury, I'll go with thee
PEMBROKE. Then I, as one that am the tongue of these,
PEMBROKE. There tell the King he may inquire us out.
PEMBROKE. They say King John, sore sick, hath left the field.
PEMBROKE. This is the man should do the bloody deed:
PEMBROKE. This once again, but that your Highness pleas'd,
PEMBROKE. Up once again; put spirit in the French;
PEMBROKE. When workmen strive to do better than well,
PEMBROKE. Who brought that letter from the Cardinal?
PEMBROKE. and BIGOT. Our souls religiously confirm thy words.
PETER. Foreknowing that the truth will fall out so.
PINDARUS, servant to Cassius
PINDARUS. Fly further off, my lord, fly further off;
PINDARUS. I do not doubt
PINDARUS. So, I am free, yet would not so have been,
PINDARUS. [Above.] O my lord!
PINDARUS. [Above.] Titinius is enclosed round about
POET. For shame, you generals! What do you mean?
POET. [Within.] Let me go in to see the generals.
POET. [Within.] Nothing but death shall stay me.
POPILIUS LENA, "
POPILIUS,      "
POPILIUS. Fare you well.
POPILIUS. I wish your enterprise today may thrive.
PORTIA, wife of Brutus
PORTIA. Brutus is wise, and, were he not in health,
PORTIA. Brutus, my lord!
PORTIA. Come hither, fellow;
PORTIA. I must go in. Ay me, how weak a thing
PORTIA. I prithee, boy, run to the Senate House;
PORTIA. I should not need, if you were gentle Brutus.
PORTIA. I would have had thee there, and here again,
PORTIA. If this were true, then should I know this secret.
PORTIA. Is Brutus sick, and is it physical
PORTIA. Is Caesar yet gone to the Capitol?
PORTIA. Nor for yours neither. have ungently, Brutus,
PORTIA. Prithee, listen well.
PORTIA. Thou hast some suit to Caesar, hast thou not?
PORTIA. What is't o'clock?
PORTIA. Why, know'st thou any harm's intended towards him?
PORTIA. Yes, bring me word, boy, if thy lord look well,
PRINCE HENRY. At Worcester must his body be interr'd;
PRINCE HENRY. Even so must I run on, and even so stop.
PRINCE HENRY. How fares your Majesty?
PRINCE HENRY. I have a kind soul that would give you thanks,
PRINCE HENRY. It is too late; the life of all his blood
PRINCE HENRY. Let him be brought into the orchard here.
PRINCE HENRY. O that there were some virtue in my tears,
PRINCE HENRY. O vanity of sickness! Fierce extremes
PUBLIUS. Good morrow,Caesar.
PUBLIUS. Sirrah, give place.
Reg. 'Tis the infirmity of his age; yet he hath ever but slenderly
Reg. And in good time you gave it!
Reg. And speak't again my lord. No more with me.
Reg. For his particular, I'll receive him gladly,
Reg. Good sir, no more! These are unsightly tricks.
Reg. Good sir, to th' purpose.
Reg. I am glad to see your Highness.
Reg. I cannot think my sister in the least
Reg. I dare avouch it, sir. What, fifty followers?
Reg. I know't- my sister's. This approves her letter,
Reg. I pray you, father, being weak, seem so.
Reg. I pray you, sir, take patience. I have hope
Reg. If it be true, all vengeance comes too short
Reg. Let your study
Reg. My sister may receive it much more worse,
Reg. No marvel then though he were ill affected.
Reg. Not altogether so.
Reg. O the blest gods! so will you wish on me
Reg. O, sir, to wilful men
Reg. O, sir, you are old!
Reg. Sir, I am made
Reg. Sir, being his knave, I will.
Reg. Such unconstant starts are we like to have from him as this
Reg. That's most certain, and with you; next month with us.
Reg. The messengers from our sister and the King
Reg. This house is little; the old man and 's people
Reg. Thus out of season, threading dark-ey'd night.
Reg. Till noon? Till night, my lord, and all night too!
Reg. Was he not companion with the riotous knights
Reg. We shall further think on't.
Reg. What need one?
Reg. What, did my father's godson seek your life?
Reg. Why not, my lord? If then they chanc'd to slack ye,
SALISBURY. And the like tender of our love we make,
SALISBURY. As true as I believe you think them false
SALISBURY. Be of good comfort, Prince; for you are born
SALISBURY. I did not think the King so stor'd with friends.
SALISBURY. If that it be the work of any hand!
SALISBURY. In this the antique and well-noted face
SALISBURY. Indeed, we fear'd his sickness was past cure.
SALISBURY. It is apparent foul-play; and 'tis shame
SALISBURY. It seems you know not, then, so much as we:
SALISBURY. Lords, I will meet him at Saint Edmundsbury;
SALISBURY. May this be possible? May this be true?
SALISBURY. Murder, as hating what himself hath done,
SALISBURY. Must I rob the law?                  [Drawing his sword]
SALISBURY. Nay, 'tis in a manner done already;
SALISBURY. Not till I sheathe it in a murderer's skin.
SALISBURY. O, he is bold, and blushes not at death!
SALISBURY. Or rather then set forward; for 'twill be
SALISBURY. Our griefs, and not our manners, reason now.
SALISBURY. Pardon me, madam,
SALISBURY. Sir Richard, what think you? Have you beheld,
SALISBURY. Stand by, or I shall gall you, Faulconbridge.
SALISBURY. That misbegotten devil, Faulconbridge,
SALISBURY. The Count Melun, a noble lord of France,
SALISBURY. The King hath dispossess'd himself of us.
SALISBURY. The colour of the King doth come and go
SALISBURY. Therefore, to be possess'd with double pomp,
SALISBURY. This is the prison. What is he lies here?
SALISBURY. Thou art a murderer.
SALISBURY. To this effect, before you were new-crown'd,
SALISBURY. Trust not those cunning waters of his eyes,
SALISBURY. Upon our sides it never shall be broken.
SALISBURY. We do believe thee; and beshrew my soul
SALISBURY. What other harm have I, good lady, done
SALISBURY. When we were happy we had other names.
SALISBURY. Wounded to death.
SALISBURY. You breathe these dead news in as dead an ear.
SECOND CITIZEN. Answer every man directly.
SECOND CITIZEN. Descend.
SECOND CITIZEN. Give him a statue with his ancestors.
SECOND CITIZEN. Go fetch fire.
SECOND CITIZEN. I will hear Cassius and compare their reasons,
SECOND CITIZEN. If thou consider rightly of the matter,
SECOND CITIZEN. Most noble Caesar! We'll revenge his death.
SECOND CITIZEN. O noble Caesar!
SECOND CITIZEN. Peace! Let us hear what Antony can say.
SECOND CITIZEN. Peace! Silence! Brutus speaks.
SECOND CITIZEN. Poor soul, his eyes are red as fire with weeping.
SECOND CITIZEN. Room for Antony, most noble Antony.
SECOND CITIZEN. That matter is answered directly.
SECOND CITIZEN. That's as much as to say they are fools that marry.
SECOND CITIZEN. They were villains, murtherers. The will!
SECOND CITIZEN. We will be revenged.
SECOND CITIZEN. We'll hear him, we'll follow him, we'll die with
SECOND CITIZEN. Whither are you going?
SECOND COMMONER. A trade, sir, that, I hope, I may use with a safe
SECOND COMMONER. Nay, I beseech you, sir, be not out with me; yet,
SECOND COMMONER. Truly, Sir, all that I live by is with the awl; I
SECOND COMMONER. Truly, sir, in respect of a fine workman, I am
SECOND COMMONER. Truly, sir, to wear out their shoes to get myself
SECOND COMMONER. Why, sir, cobble you.
SECOND SOLDIER. Room, ho! Tell Antony, Brutus is ta'en.
SECOND SOLDIER. Stand!
SERVANT. He and Lepidus are at Caesar's house.
SERVANT. He did receive his letters, and is coming,
SERVANT. He lies tonight within seven leagues of Rome.
SERVANT. I 