









Exeunt
Exeunt
Guns heard.
A bell rings.
Exit Roderigo.
[Dies]
Exit Desdemona.
Exit GAUNT
Exit Gentleman.
Stabs Roderigo.
Othello retires.
[Kneels]
[Kneels]
[Kneels]
[Kneels]
Exit servant
[Kneels]
Exit HASTINGS
Falls in a trance.
Gives him a letter.
Exit SERVINGMAN
GREEN, and BAGOT
[Coming forward]
Exeunt from above
Exit an attendant
Makes a pass at Cassio.
They draw on both sides.
Exeunt YORK and QUEEN
[A charge sounded]
[Beats the KEEPER]
A cry within, "Help, help!"
Exeunt Iago and Attendants.
Exeunt PERCY and LORDS
Falls on the bed, and dies.
Iago offers to stab Emilia.
Exeunt Desdemona and Emilia.
Exeunt Desdemona and Emilia.
Exeunt Desdemona and Emilia.
Exeunt QUEEN and LADIES
He runs at Iago, but Montano
Opens the letter, and reads.
Exeunt Othello and Desdemona.
Exeunt Othello and Desdemona.
[QUEEN and LADIES retire]
Exeunt all but Iago and Cassio.
disarms him. Iago stabs Emilia.
Exeunt all but Iago and Roderigo.
Cassio and Roderigo are borne off.
Flourish. Exit KING with train
Gives her Desdemona's handkerchief.
O, behold,
BISHOP OF CARLISLE, and AUMERLE
Exeunt Duke, Senators, and Officers.
How now, Roderigo!
[The bearers take up the coffin]
Exit, borne out by his attendants
Something sure of state,
You, you, ay, you!
[The bearers set down the coffin]
A cry within, "A sail, a sail, a sail!"
In happy time, Iago.
Enter Clown.
Enter Iago.
Enter Iago.
How now, Cassio!
and weapons.
Enter Bianca.
Enter Bianca.
Enter Bianca.
Enter Cassio.
Enter Cassio.
Enter Cassio.
Enter Emilia.
Enter Emilia.
Enter Emilia.
Enter Othello.
Enter Othello.
Enter Sailor.
Exeunt Othello, Lodovico, and Attendants.
Re-enter Iago.
Enter Roderigo.
Enter Roderigo.
Enter Roderigo.
Exeunt Othello, Desdemona, and Attendants.
How now! who has put in?
Re-enter Cassio.
Re-enter Emilia.
A cry within, "A sail, a sail!" Guns heard.
Enter a Messenger.
Exeunt CLARENCE, BRAKENBURY, and guard
Not poppy, nor mandragora,
Re-enter Gratiano.
Re-enter Othello.
Re-enter Othello.
[Snatching a weapon and killing one]
Enter Cassio and Iago.
Servants with torches.
What noise?
[Dashes the glass against the ground]
Enter LORD HASTINGS
Enter a third Gentleman.
Enter GLOUCESTER
Enter a fourth Gentleman.
How is't with you, my lord?
Re-enter Emilia with Iago.
Re-enter second Gentleman.
Enter BERKELEY
Enter BUSHY
Enter Desdemona with Emilia.
Enter Lodovico and Gratiano.
Exeunt KING RICHARD, some Lords and a Guard
Re-enter Iago, with a light.
Enter Othello and Attendants.
Enter PERCY
Enter YORK
Enter YORK
Enter a servant
Exeunt all but the ABBOT OF WESTMINSTER, the
Re-enter Desdemona and Emilia.
Re-enter Desdemona, attended.
Servants following with wine.
What's the matter with thee now?
Enter GREEN
Enter SCROOP
Enter a SERVINGMAN
Flourish. Exeunt KING, QUEEN, BUSHY, AUMERLE,
Re-enter Othello and Attendants.
Enter AUMERLE
Enter FITZWATER
Enter Ross and WILLOUGHBY
and Officers with Iago, prisoner.
A soldier's a man;
And thou art but of low degree.
Enter DUCHESS
Enter HARRY PERCY
Enter SALISBURY
Enter YORK, attended
Enter YORK, attended
His breeches cost him but a crown;
O, man's life's but a span;
Then take thine auld cloak about thee."
With that he call'd the tailor lown.
Brabantio appears above, at a window.
Enter AUMERLE amazed
Enter Desdemona, Iago, and Attendants.
Enter NORTHUMBERLAND
Enter Othello and Iago, at a distance.
Re-enter Cassio, driving in Roderigo.
Re-enter attendant with glass
Ross, and WILLOUGHBY
[He plucks it out of his bosom, and reads it]
bearing the regalia
"He was a wight of high renown,
'Tis pride that pulls the country down;
And let me the canakin clink.
He held them sixpence all too dear,
Let nobody blame him; his scorn I approve-"
Why then let a soldier drink."
Enter KEEPER with meat
Enter Lodovico, Desdemona, and Attendants.
Enter Montano, Gratiano, Iago, and others.
Enter NORTHUMBERLAND
Enter a GROOM of the stable
His man enters with his boots
[He kills another, then EXTON strikes him down]
Enter CLARENCE, guarded, and BRAKENBURY
Enter NORTHUMBERLAND attended
Enter KING RICHARD and Guard
Enter, below, Brabantio, in his nightgown, and
He puts the handkerchief from him, and she drops it.
Iago from behind wounds Cassio in the leg, and exit.
[The DUKE OF YORK knocks at the door and crieth]
appellant, in armour, and a HERALD
Enter Cassio and certain Officers with torches.
Enter a GARDENER and two SERVANTS
Exeunt NORTHUMBERLAND, and others, with the prisoners
Re-enter Cassio; with him Montano and Gentlemen;
[NORTHUMBERLAND advances to the Castle, with a trumpet]
Enter the KING, and his attendants, below
Sing all a green willow;
Sing willow, willow, willow.
Sing willow, willow, willow.
Sing willow, willow, willow;
Enter BOLINGBROKE and MOWBRAY
Enter Brabantio, Roderigo, and Officers with torches
Enter Lodovico, Montano, Cassio carried in a chair,
Enter PERCY, With the BISHOP OF CARLISLE
"I call'd my love false love; but what said he then?
"The poor soul sat sighing by a sycamore tree,
Her hand on her bosom, her head on her knee,
Her salt tears fell from her, and soften'd the stones-"
If I court moe women, you'll couch with moe men-"
The fresh streams ran by her, and murmur'd her moans,
Enter Brabantio, Othello, Iago, Roderigo, and Officers.
Enter Desdemona, Emilia Iago, Roderigo, and Attendants.
AUMERLE, SCROOP, and SALISBURY
Duke of Norfolk.
Enter EXTON, with attendants, hearing a coffin
Enter on the walls, the KING, the BISHOP OF CARLISLE,
Parle without, and answer within; then a flourish.
Re-enter YORK, with KING RICHARD, and OFFICERS
[To AUMERLE] Beshrew thee, cousin, which didst lead me forth
have we stood
knee be low.
the chair.
world they played for.
Cassio!
Exit.
Exit.
Exit.
Exit.
GAUNT, BUSHY, BAGOT, GREEN, and others. When they are set,
The trumpets sound, and the KING enters with his nobles,
a HERALD
enter MOWBRAY, Duke of Nor folk, in arms, defendant, and
recovered?
"I have already chose my officer."
'Gainst us, our lives, our children, and our heirs.
'Gainst us, our state, our subjects, or our land.
'Have I no friend will rid me of this living fear?'
'It is as hard to come as for a camel
'Jesu preserve thee! Welcome, Bolingbroke!'
'Pardon' should be the first word of thy speech.
'Tis a shrewd doubt, though it be but a dream.
'Tis as I should entreat you wear your gloves,
'Tis breath thou lack'st, and that breath wilt thou lose.
'Tis but a man gone. Forth, my sword; he dies.
'Tis destiny unshunnable, like death.
'Tis doubt he will be. Letters came last night
'Tis full three months since I did see him last.
'Tis gone.
'Tis in reversion that I do possess-
'Tis like she comes to speak of Cassio's death.
'Tis monstrous. Iago, who began't?
'Tis not the King that sends you to the Tower;
'Tis not the trial of a woman's war,
'Tis nothing but some bond that he is ent'red into
'Tis oft with difference- yet do they all confirm
'Tis probable, and palpable to thinking.
'Tis proper I obey him, but not now.
'Tis to his virtue a just equinox,
'Tis very grievous to be thought upon.
'Tis very true: my grief lies all within;
'Twas I that kill'd her.
'Twas mine, 'tis his, and has been slave to thousands;
'Twas pitiful, 'twas wondrous pitiful.
'Twere now to be most happy; for I fear
'Twould make her amiable and subdue my father
(A fellow almost damn'd in a fair wife)
(As if some planet had unwitted men),
(For I fear Cassio with my nightcap too),
A Florentine more kind and honest.
A Turkish fleet, and bearing up to Cyprus.
A Veronesa. Michael Cassio,
A banish'd traitor. All my treasury
A beggar begs that never begg'd before.
A better never did itself sustain
A brace of draymen bid God speed him well
A brittle glory shineth in this face;
A caitiff recreant to my cousin Hereford!
A cherry lip, a bonny eye, a passing pleasing tongue;
A closet lock and key of villainous secrets.
A dearer merit, not so deep a maim
A deed of slander with thy fatal hand
A dozen of them here have ta'en the sacrament,
A drop of patience; but, alas, to make me
A fixed figure for the time of scorn
A frank one.
A fuller blast ne'er shook our battlements.
A generation of still-breeding thoughts,
A glorious angel. Then, if angels fight,
A happy gentleman in blood and lineaments,
A housewife that by selling her desires
A jewel in a ten-times barr'd-up chest
A king, woe's slave, shall kingly woe obey.
A little little grave, an obscure grave-
A long flourish, while the KING consults his Council
A loyal, just, and upright gentleman.
A man he is of honesty and trust.
A man that languishes in your displeasure.
A most dear husband. Now, I do love her too,
A moth of peace, and he go to the war,
A murther, which I thought a sacrifice.
A natural and prompt alacrity
A parasite, a keeper-back of death,
A partial slander sought I to avoid,
A passion most unsuiting such a man-
A plot shall show us all a merry day.                 Exeunt
A recreant and most degenerate traitor;
A se'nnight's speed. Great Jove, Othello guard,
A sequester from liberty, fasting, and prayer,
A serpent that will sting thee to the heart.
A sibyl, that had number'd in the world
A stranger to thy thoughts.
A thousand flatterers sit within thy crown,
A thousand times committed. Cassio confess'd it,
A traitor to his God, his King, and him;
A traitor to my God, my King, and me.
A trespass that doth vex my grieved soul;
A twofold marriage-'twixt my crown and me,
A wandering vagabond; my rights and royalties
About a prophecy which says that G
About his marriage, nor my own disgrace,
Abuse him to the Moor in the rank garb
Abused her delicate youth with drugs or minerals
Accomplish'd with the number of thy hours;
Add an immortal title to your crown!
Add proof unto mine armour with thy prayers,
Adding withal, how blest this land would be
Adopts thee heir, and his high sceptre yields
Advance thy halberd higher than my breast,
After a well-grac'd actor leaves the stage
After long seeming dead, Iago hurt him,
After new fancies. She dying gave it me,
After our sentence plaining comes too late.
After some time, to abuse Othello's ear
After your late tossing on the breaking seas?
After your own sense, yea, though our proper son
Again uncurse their souls; their peace is made
Against Aumerle we will enforce his trial.
Against a bird, do I with Mowbray fight.
Against a change: woe is forerun with woe.
Against all rules of nature, and must be driven
Against black pagans, Turks, and Saracens;
Against infection and the hand of war,
Against my will to do myself this wrong.
Against the Duke of Hereford that appeals me;
Against the Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Mowbray?
Against the Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Mowbray?
Against the Moor; for I do know, the state,
Against the envy of less happier lands;
Against the general enemy Ottoman.
Against the state and profit of this land;
Against the word,
Against their will. But who comes here?
Against thy entrance.
Against thy majesty; boys, with women's voices,
Against thy seat: both young and old rebel,
Against what man thou com'st, and what thy quarrel.
Against whom comest thou? and what's thy quarrel?
Against your honor
Ah, Gaunt, his blood was thine! That bed, that womb,
Ah, my sour husband, my hard-hearted lord,
Ah, thou, the model where old Troy did stand;
Ah, would the scandal vanish with my life,
Aim'd at your Highness-no inveterate malice.
Alack, and what shall good old York there see
Alas, I blame you not, for you are mortal,
Alas, I look'd when some of you should say
Alas, my friend and my dear countryman
Alas, why gnaw you so your nether lip?
Albeit unused to the melting mood,
Aldermen, Citizens, Soldiers, Messengers, Murderers, Keeper
All guiltless, meet reproach. What, ho! My lord!
All kinds of sores and shames on my bare head,
All murder'd-for within the hollow crown
All must be even in our government.
All my abilities in thy behalf.
All my fond love thus do I blow to heaven.
All pomp and majesty I do forswear;
All seals and symbols of redeemed sin,
All souls that will be safe, fly from my side;
All these, well furnish'd by the Duke of Britaine,
All, all, cry shame against me, yet I'll speak.
Allowing him a breath, a little scene,
Although apparent guilt be seen in them;
Am I both priest and clerk? Well then, amen.
Am I the motive of these tears, my lord?
Am I to put our Cassio in some action
Am I; who ready here do stand in arms
Amongst much other talk that very time
An angry arm against His minister.
An easy task it is to win our own.
An honest man he is, and hates the slime
An honorable murtherer, if you will,
An hour or more, not meaning any harm?
An if I were thy nurse, thy tongue to teach,
An if my word be sterling yet in England,
An indistinct regard.
An instrument of this your calling back,
An old thing 'twas, but it express'd her fortune,
An unkind breech; but you shall make all well.
And Bolingbroke my sorrow's dismal heir.
And Cassio following him with determined sword,
And Cassio high in oath, which till tonight
And Cassio kill'd?
And Cassio rules in Cyprus. For this slave,
And I a heavy interim shall support
And I am come to seek that name in England;
And I challenge law-attorneys are denied me;
And I dare think he'll prove to Desdemona
And I did give't my husband.
And I from heaven banish'd as from hence!
And I loved her that she did pity them.
And I must find that title in your tongue
And I resign my gage. My dear dear lord,
And I will turn thy falsehood to thy heart,
And I'll devise a mean to draw the Moor
And I, a gasping new-deliver'd mother,
And I, of whom his eyes had seen the proof
And I- God bless the mark!- his Moorship's ancient.
And O you mortal engines, whose rude throats
And added years to his short banishment,
And all goes worse than I have power to tell.
And all indign and base adversities
And all the clouds that lour'd upon our house
And all the household servants fled with him
And all the number of his fair demands
And all the rest revolted faction traitors?
And all too soon, I fear, the King shall rue.
And all unlook'd for from your Highness' mouth.
And all your northern castles yielded up,
And all your southern gentlemen in arms
And am I last that knows it? O, thou thinkest
And as I am a gentleman I credit him.
And as I truly fight, defend me heaven!
And as I truly fight, defend me heaven!
And as my fortune ripens with thy love,
And bade me to dismiss you.
And bade me, if I had a friend that loved her,
And barbarism itself have pitied him.
And beat our watch and rob our passengers,
And beg thy pardon ere he do accuse thee.
And bid his ears a little while be deaf,
And bid me, when my fate would have me wive,
And bids me speak of nothing but despair.
And blindfold death not let me see my son.
And both return back to their chairs again.
And bow my knee before his Majesty;
And bring all Cyprus comfort.
And bring away the armour that is there.
And bring him jump when he may Cassio find
And bring them after in the best advantage.
And buried once, why not upon my head?
And by him do my duties to the Senate.
And by how much she strives to do him good,
And by the buried hand of warlike Gaunt,
And by the honourable tomb he swears
And by the royalties of both your bloods,
And by the worth and honour of himself,
And call thy husband hither.
And cannot make away.
And certainly in strange unquietness.
And chides with thinking.
And cloister thee in some religious house.
And consequently, like a traitor coward,
And cracking the strong warrant of an oath,
And craves to kiss your hand and take his leave.
And crossly to thy good all fortune goes.               Exit
And dares him to set forward to the fight.
And darts his light through every guilty hole,
And descant on mine own deformity.
And did forsake her. She had a song of "willow";
And didst contract and purse thy brow together,
And die in music. [Sings.] "Willow, willow, willow."
And do thee favours with my royal hands.
And driven into despair an enemy's hope
And dull, unfeeling, barren ignorance
And duty bids defend; t'other again
And entertain a cheerful disposition.
And ere thou bid good night, to quit their griefs
And ever will, though he do shake me off
And everything is left at six and seven.
And fall to reprobation.
And fawn on rage with base humility,
And fearful to be granted.
And fiends will snatch at it. Cold, cold, my girl?
And fight and die is death destroying death,
And fix most firm thy resolution.
And for I know thou'rt full of love and honesty
And for our eyes do hate the dire aspect
And for these great affairs do ask some charge,
And for we think the eagle-winged pride
And formally, according to our law,
And free from other misbegotten hate,
And fright our native peace with self-borne arms.
And from the common'st creature pluck a glove
And from the cross-row plucks the letter G,
And frowning brow to brow, ourselves will hear
And furbish new the name of John o' Gaunt,
And future ages groan for this foul act;
And give direction. And do but see his vice;
And give us truth who 'tis that is arrived.
And give't Iago. What he will do with it
And go with you.                                            Exit.
And grating shock of wrathful iron arms,
And great affinity and that in wholesome wisdom
And had the tribute of his supple knee,
And happily repent.
And hardly kept our countrymen together,
And hate the idle pleasures of these days.
And hath in his effect a voice potential
And have not those soft parts of conversation
And have prevail'd as much on him as you.
And have their palates both for sweet and sour,
And he does chide with you.
And he grows angry. Now, whether he kill Cassio,
And he himself confess'd but even now
And he himself not present? O, forfend it, God,
And he our subjects' next degree in hope.
And he requires your haste-post-haste appearance,
And he retires. Where should Othello go?
And he shall our commission bring to you,
And he shall spend mine honour with his shame,
And he shall think that thou, which knowest the way
And he that is approved in this offense,
And he's indicted falsely.
And heaven defend your good souls, that you think
And heavy-gaited toads, lie in their way,
And here another. The one of them imports
And here have I the daintiness of ear
And here is not a creature but myself,
And his own courses will denote him so
And his physicians fear him mightily.
And his pure soul unto his captain, Christ,
And his unbookish jealousy must construe
And his unkindness may defeat my life,
And hold her free, I do beseech your honor.
And hope to joy is little less in joy
And if King Edward be as true and just
And if we be, how dare thy joints forget
And if you crown him, let me prophesy-
And in compassion weep the fire out;
And in it are the Lords of York, Berkeley, and Seymour-
And in my loyal bosom lies his power.
And in the essential vesture of creation
And in the sentence my own life destroy'd.
And in this seat of peace tumultuous wars
And in this thought they find a kind of ease,
And interchangeably hurl down my gage
And interchangeably set down their hands
And is in full commission here for Cyprus.
And it is still itself.
And it is thought abroad that 'twixt my sheets
And it was dyed in mummy which the skillful
And keep the gate of hell!
And know not now what name to call myself!
And knowing what I am, I know what she shall be.
And knows all qualities, with a learned spirit,
And labour'd all I could to do him right;
And laid good 'scuse upon your ecstasy;
And lands restor'd again be freely granted;
And lasting fealty to the new-made king.
And lay aside my high blood's royalty,
And lay the summer's dust with showers of blood
And lean-look'd prophets whisper fearful change;
And learn to make a body of a limb.
And leave the world for me to bustle in!
And let her speak of me before her father.
And let him be no kinsman to my liege,
And let him find it. Trifles light as air
And let him never see joy that breaks that oath!
And let me find a charter in your voice
And let ourselves again but understand
And let the laboring bark climb hills of seas
And let thy blows, doubly redoubled,
And liberal largess, are grown somewhat light,
And lie full low, grav'd in the hollow ground.
And lies, and lies. There is my bond of faith,
And list what with our council we have done.
And little blest with the soft phrase of peace;
And little look'd for at your helping hands.
And little of this great world can I speak,
And live upon the vapor of a dungeon,
And long live Henry, fourth of that name!
And looks not on his evils. Is not this true?
And loses that it works for.
And love thee after. One more, and this the last;
And loving farewell of our several friends.
And madam, you must call him Rudand now.
And made no deeper wounds? O flatt'ring glass,
And made you to suspect me with the Moor.
And make a dearth in this revolting land.
And make high majesty look like itself,
And make some pretty match with shedding tears?
And make us wade even in our kindred's blood-
And makes me poor indeed.
And makes men mad.
And makest me call what I intend to do
And many a civil monster.
And many of the consuls, raised and met,
And many worthy and chaste dames even thus,
And mark how he continues.
And mark my greeting well; for what I speak
And mark the fleers, the gibes, and notable scorns,
And meet him, were I tied to run afoot
And meet me presently at Berkeley.
And meteors fright the fixed stars of heaven;
And minister correction to thy fault!
And mortal eyes cannot endure the devil.
And my large kingdom for a little grave,
And needs no other suitor but his likings
And never borrow any tear of thee.
And never brandish more revengeful steel
And never see day that the happy sees
And never show thy head by day nor light.
And never will I rise up from the ground
And new create this fault?
And no conception nor no jealous toy
And none contented. Sometimes am I king;
And not King Richard; thou most beauteous inn,
And not against his friends. His noble hand
And not by old gradation, where each second
And not neglected; else, if heaven would,
And not the King exil'd thee; or suppose
And not their appetites! I had rather be a toad,
And nothing can or shall content my soul
And nothing can we can our own but death
And nothing of a man.
And now chang'd to 'The Beggar and the King.'
And now my tongue's use is to me no more
And now, instead of mounting barbed steeds
And of the Cannibals that each other eat,
And often did beguile her of her tears
And on the proof, there is no more but this-
And ostentation of despised arms?
And out of her own goodness make the net
And overmuch consum'd his royal person!
And passion, having my best judgement collied,
And patient underbearing of his fortune,
And piece the way out with a heavy heart.
And plague injustice with the pains of hell.
And pluck nights from me, but not lend a morrow;
And portance in my travels' history;
And pour our treasures into foreign laps,
And practicing upon his peace and quiet
And prays the Moor be safe; for they were parted
And prays you to believe him.
And prick my tender patience to those thoughts
And put in every honest hand a whip
And put on sullen black incontinent.
And quench the guards of the ever-fixed pole.
And quite lost their hearts; the nobles hath he find
And raise some special officers of night.
And rob me of a happy mother's name?
And say besides, that in Aleppo once,
And say if I shall see you soon at night.
And says a wizard told him that by G
And seek to effect it to my uttermost.
And seize upon the fortunes of the Moor,
And send him many years of sunshine days!
And send the hearers weeping to their beds;
And send them after to supply our wants;
And sends allegiance and true faith of heart
And sent me over by Berkeley, to discover
And shall the figure of God's majesty,
And she did gratify his amorous works
And she died singing it. That song tonight
And she for him pleads strongly to the Moor,
And she in mine.
And she speaks for you stoutly. The Moor replies
And she's obedient, as you say, obedient,
And shortly mean to touch our northern shore.
And show fair duty to his Majesty.   [He kneels down]
And shut myself up in some other course
And sigh'd my English breath in foreign clouds,
And silence those whom this vile brawl distracted.
And sing it like poor Barbary. Prithee, dispatch.
And smooth as monumental alabaster.
And smote him, thus.                               Stabs himself.
And so I am. Then crushing penury
And so much duty as my mother show'd
And so your follies fight against yourself.
And sold to slavery, of my redemption thence
And some few vanities that make him light;
And some will mourn in ashes, some coal-black,
And soon lie Richard in an earthly pit.
And speed must answer't: you must hence tonight.
And spend your rich opinion for the name
And spit it bleeding in his high disgrace,
And spit upon him whilst I say he lies,
And spoke such scurvy and provoking terms
And spur thee on with fun as many lies
And spurn upon thee, beggar, for thy boldness.
And stain'd the beauty of a fair queen's cheeks
And still as you are weary of this weight
And stood within the blank of his displeasure
And straight am nothing. But whate'er I be,
And such a one do I profess myself.
And sweet revenge grows harsh.
And swell his sail with thine own powerful breath,
And tell my lord and lady what hath happ'd!
And tell sad stories of the death of kings:
And that be heir to his unhappiness!
And that he is a bastard, not thy son.
And that my fortune runs against the bias.
And that small model of the barren earth
And that so lamely and unfashionable
And that the Queen's kindred are made gentlefolks.
And that thou art so, there I throw my gage,
And that would woo her. Upon this hint I spake:
And then be gone and trouble you no more.
And then betwixt me and my married wife.
And then, sir, would he gripe and wring my hand,
And there repose you for this night.
And there will I be with him. So farewell.                  Exit.
And therefore little shall I grace my cause
And therefore personally I lay my claim
And therefore, since I cannot prove a lover
And therein fasting, hast thou made me gaunt.
And these and all are all amiss employ'd.
And these external manner of laments
And these same thoughts people this little world,
And they watch too. Now, 'mongst this flock of drunkards,
And think it no addition, nor my wish,
And this unwieldy sceptre from my hand,
And this, and this, the greatest discords be          Kisses her.
And those his golden beams to you here lent
And thou art flying to a fresher clime.
And thou by that small hurt hast cashier'd Cassio.
And thou shalt have twelve thousand fighting men!
And thou with all pleas'd, that hast an achiev'd.
And thou, too careless patient as thou art,
And thou-
And though you think that all, as you have done,
And threat the glory of my precious crown.
And throw the rider headlong in the lists,
And throwing but shows of service on their lords
And thus expiring do foretell of him:
And thus she is deliver'd.
And thus still doing, thus he pass'd along.
And thy abundant goodness shall excuse
And thy unkindness be like crooked age,
And till she come, as truly as to heaven
And to defend ourselves it be a sin
And to his honors and his valiant parts
And to obey shall be in me remorse,
And to suppose her chaste! No, let me know,
And to thy worth will add right worthy gains.
And told him of those triumphs held at Oxford.
And turn again; and she can weep, sir, weep;
And unavoided is the danger now
And urg'd it twice together, did he not?
And very sea-mark of my utmost sail.
And wash him fresh again with true-love tears.
And water cannot wash away your sin.
And we are barren and bereft of friends,
And we create, in absence of ourself,
And we will not, heaven's offer we refuse,
And wear it as a favour; and with that
And weigh'st thy words before thou givest them breath,
And what I want it boots not to complain.
And what hear there for welcome but my groans?
And what loss is it to be rid of care?
And what was he?
And what's to come of my despised time
And whatsoe'er you will employ me in-
And when I mount, alive may I not light
And when I told thee he was of my counsel
And when she seem'd to shake and fear your looks,
And when they from thy bosom pluck a flower,
And who abstains from meat that is not gaunt?
And who sits here that is not Richard's subject?
And why thou comest thus knightly clad in arms;
And will as tenderly be led by the nose
And will maintain what thou hast said is false
And will not hear it. What committed?
And will return to Venice. Hence, avaunt!
And will upon the instant put thee to't:
And will, I fear, revolt on Hereford's side.
And wilt thou pluck my fair son from mine age
And wish-so please my sovereign-ere I move,
And wit depends on dilatory time.
And with him are the Lord Aumerle, Lord Salisbury,
And with that odds he weighs King Richard down.
And with thy blessings steel my lance's point,
And with uplifted arms is safe arriv'd
And would in action glorious I had lost
And wounds the earth, if nothing else, with rage
And yet I bear a burden like an ass,
And yet I love him.
And yet he hath given me satisfying reasons.
And yet his trespass, in our common reason-
And yet my letters patents give me leave.
And yet not so, for with a kiss 'twas made.
And yet not so-for what can we bequeath
And yet salt water blinds them not so much
And yet she'll kneel and pray; I have seen her do't.
And yet we hear no tidings from the King;
And yet we strike not, but securely perish.
And yet your fair discourse hath been as sugar,
And yet, amen, if heaven do think him me.
And yet, incaged in so small a verge,
And you can witness with me this is true.
And you of her, the bloody book of law
And you that do abet him in this kind
And you the blacker devil!
And your unblest fate hies. Strumpet, I come!
And, being troubled with a raging tooth,
And, by the glorious worth of my descent,
And, by the grace of God and this mine arm,
And, for because the world is populous
And, for my heart disdained that my tongue
And, for my name of George begins with G,
And, for our coffers, with too great a court
And, for they cannot, die in their own pride.
And, if I fail not in my deep intent,
And, in conclusion,
And, like the devil, from his very arm
And, lo, the happiness! Go and importune her.
And, madam, there is order ta'en for you:
And, noble uncle, I beseech your Grace
And, though he in a fertile climate dwell,
And, though mine enemy, restor'd again
And, till so much blood thither come again,
And, to the advantage, I being here took't up.
And, toil'd with works of war, retir'd himself
Anointed, crowned, planted many years,
Another of his fathom they have none
Antony Woodville, her brother there,
Any beginning to this peevish odds;
Appointed to direct these fair designs.
Are at the Duke's already. You have been hotly call'd for,
Are clamorous groans which strike upon my heart,
Are gone to Bolingbroke, dispers'd, and fled.
Are idly bent on him that enters next,
Are making hither with all due expedience,
Are merely shadows to the unseen grief
Are mighty gossips in our monarchy.
Are pluck'd up root and all by Bolingbroke-
Are to a wise man ports and happy havens.
Are to the jealous confirmations strong
Are tricks of custom; but in a man that's just
Are we turn'd Turks, and to ourselves do that
Are you a man? have you a soul or sense?
Are you fast married? Be assured of this,
Are you not well?
Arise, I say!
Arise, black vengeance, from thy hollow hell!
Arm, arm, my name! a puny subject strikes
Armies of pestilence; and they shall strike
Arraigning his unkindness with my soul;
As 'twere to banish their affects with him.
As Dian's visage, is now begrimed and black
As Harry Duke of Hereford, were he here.
As I am subtle, false, and treacherous,
As I do now. For whiles this honest fool
As I have done, thou wouldst be more pitiful.
As I have spoken for you all my best
As I have to be hurt. O gull! O dolt!
As I intend to thrive in this new world,
As I might love. I never gave him token.
As a long-parted mother with her child
As asses are.
As blanks, benevolences, and I wot not what;
As bright as is the eagle's, lightens forth
As brittle as the glory is the face;
As confident as is the falcon's flight
As doth import you.
As doth the blushing discontented sun
As doth the raven o'er the infected house,
As double as the Duke's. He will divorce you,
As far as Calais, to mine uncle's head?'
As far as land will let me by your side.
As fits the bridal. Beshrew me much, Emilia,
As for another secret close intent
As friendly as you were.
As from my death-bed, thy last living leave.
As gentle and as jocund as to jest
As gifts to Desdemona;
As having sense of beauty, do omit
As he is but my father's brother's son,
As he shall smile, Othello shall go mad;
As hell's from heaven! If it were now to die,
As honest as I am.
As husbands have. What is it that they do
As if he pluck'd up kisses by the roots,
As if the cause were his.
As if the world were all dissolv'd to tears,
As if there were some monster in his thought
As if this flesh which walls about our life
As if thou then hadst shut up in thy brain
As ignorance made drunk. But yet, I say,
As ignorant as dirt! Thou hast done a deed-
As in a soul rememb'ring my good friends;
As in these cases, where the aim reports,
As is my grief, or lesser than my name!
As is the sepulchre in stubborn Jewry
As it may lose some color.
As jealous creatures are, it were enough
As levels with her breeding.
As like enough it will- I'ld have it copied.
As masterly as he. Mere prattle without practice
As may be halloa'd in thy treacherous ear
As men in rage strike those that wish them best,
As mine own face. If there be cords or knives,
As much good stay with thee as go with me!
As my sweet Richard. Yet again methinks
As my true service shall deserve your love.
As my young mistress' dog. Now my sick fool Roderigo,
As nothing else could match.
As now our flesh is banish'd from this land-
As of her tongue she oft bestows on me,
As partly I find it is, that your fair daughter,
As praises, of whose taste the wise are fond,
As proofs of holy writ; this may do something.
As salt as wolves in pride, and fools as gross
As so defend thee heaven and thy valour!
As soul to soul affordeth?
As the free elements. And then for her
As the last taste of sweets, is sweetest last,
As theirs, so mine; and all be as it is.
As this that I have reach'd. For know, Iago,
As thou dost ruminate, and give thy worst of thoughts
As thou dost swallow up this good king's blood,
As thoughts of things divine, are intermix'd
As thriftless sons their scraping fathers' gold.
As thus: 'Come, little ones'; and then again,
As thus: to drop them still upon one place
As to be cast forth in the common air,
As to be hush'd and nought at an to say.
As to take up mine honour's pawn, then stoop.
As to throw out our eyes for brave Othello,
As true hearts cannot bear.
As we this garden! We at time of year
As well appeareth by the cause you come;
As well assur'd Richard their King is dead.             Exit
As well to see the vessel that's come in
As were our England in reversion his,
As when brave Gaunt, thy father, and myself
As when, by night and negligence, the fire
As where's that palace whereinto foul things
As who should say 'I would thou wert the man
As worthy cause I have to fear I am-
As yet I do not; but, as I can learn,
As you that thus abuse me.
As, I confess, it is my nature's plague
As-though, on thinking, on no thought I think-
Ascend his throne, descending now from him-
Ask him his name; and orderly proceed
Assays to lead the way. If I once stir,
At Coventry, upon Saint Lambert's day.
At Ravenspurgh.
At Rhodes, at Cyprus, and on other grounds
At blow and thrust, even as again they were
At large discoursed in this paper here.
At least into a jealousy so strong
At meeting tears the cloudy cheeks of heaven.
At this odd-even and dull watch o' the night,
At thy great glory. Look not to the ground,
Attending but the signal to begin.
Aumerle is guilty of my true appeal.
Aumerle, thou weep'st, my tender-hearted cousin!
Avaunt, thou dreadful minister of hell!
Awak'd the sleeping rheum, and so by chance
Awake the snorting citizens with the bell,
Awake, thou coward majesty! thou sleepest.
Away at once with love or jealousy!
Away with me in post to Ravenspurgh;
Away, I say. Thou shalt know more hereafter.
Awhile to work, and after holiday.                    Exeunt
Ay, there, look grim as hell!
Bade her wrong stay and her displeasure fly;
Bade him anon return and here speak with me
Banish'd this frail sepulchre of our flesh,
Barbary horse; you'll have your nephews neigh to you; you'll have
Bareheaded, lower than his proud steed's neck,
Be Mowbray's sins so heavy in his bosom
Be call'd to him.
Be he the fire, I'll be the yielding water;
Be his own carver and cut out his way,
Be it lawful that I invocate thy ghost
Be judg'd by subject and inferior breath,
Be merry, for our time of stay is short.
Be not afraid, though you do see me weapon'd;
Be not enshelter'd and embay'd, they are drown'd;
Be not thyself-for how art thou a king
Be not to be a strumpet, I am none.
Be ready to direct these home alarms.                 Exeunt
Be ready, as your lives shall answer it,
Be rush'd upon! Thy thrice noble cousin,
Be sure of it. Give me the ocular proof;
Be swift like lightning in the execution,
Be thus when thou art dead, and I will kill thee,
Be't at her father's.
Bearing their own misfortunes on the back
Beat a Venetian and traduced the state,
Because my power is weak and all ill left;
Because we ever have been near the King.
Because we thought ourself thy lawful King;
Before I freely speak my mind herein,
Before I have shook off the regal thoughts
Before I make reply to aught you say.
Before King Richard in his royal lists?
Before the expiration of thy time,
Before this outdar'd dastard? Ere my tongue
Before we parted. I have made bold, Iago,
Before, behind thee, and on every hand,
Begot upon itself, born on itself.
Behind the globe, that lights the lower world,
Behold her topp'd?
Behold her well; I pray you, look upon her.
Behold this pattern of thy butcheries.
Being full of supper and distempering draughts,
Being ne'er so little urg'd, another way
Being not deficient, blind, or lame of sense,
Being so great, I have no need to beg.
Being strong on both sides, are equivocal.
Belief of it oppresses me already.
Bells in your parlors, wildcats in your kitchens,
Bereft and gelded of his patrimony.
Besides himself, are all the English peers,
Besides, I heard the banish'd Norfolk say
Besides, I say and will in battle prove-
Bespake them thus, 'I thank you, countrymen.'
Better far off than near, be ne'er the near.
Bid her send me presently a thousand pound.
Bid him repair to us to Ely House
Bloody with spurring, fiery-red with haste.
Blow me about in winds! Roast me in sulphur!
Blush'd at herself; and she- in spite of nature,
Blush, blush, thou lump of foul deformity,
Boding to all- he had my handkerchief.
Bond slaves and pagans shall our statesmen be.            Exeunt.
Bores through his castle wall, and farewell, king!
Both have I spill'd. O, would the deed were good!
Both to defend himself, and to approve
Both to defend my loyalty and truth
Both who he is and why he cometh hither
Both you of my inclining and the rest.
Boy, let me see the writing.
Brave me upon the watch, whereon it came
Breaks out to savage madness. Look, he stirs.
Breathe I against thee, upon pain of life.
Bring thou the master to the citadel;
Broke the possession of a royal bed,
Broken his staff of office, and dispers'd
Brother, farewell; I will unto the King;
Brother, good day. What means this armed guard
Brothers to the King
Brought hither Henry Hereford, thy bold son,
Burn like the mines of sulphur. I did say so.
Bushy and Green, I will not vex your souls-
Bushy, what news?
But 'tis usurp'd. Alack the heavy day,
But (dost thou hear?) most bloody.
But I bethink me what a weary way
But I do love thee! and when I love thee not,
But I do think it is their husbands' faults
But I for mere suspicion in that kind
But I shall grieve you to report the rest.
But I shall in a more continuate time
But I shall live, my lord, to give them thanks
But I will have my lord and you again
But I will have them, if I once know where.
But I will wear my heart upon my sleeve
But I'll set down the pegs that make this music,
But I-that am not shap'd for sportive tricks,
But O, what damned minutes tells he o'er
But Thomas, my dear lord, my life, my Gloucester,
But altogether lacks the abilities
But as I come, I come for Lancaster.
But basely yielded upon compromise
But bloody with the enemies of his kin.
But by bad courses may be understood
But by fair sequence and succession?
But by the robbing of the banish'd Duke.
But dead, thy kingdom cannot buy my breath.
But does foul pranks which fair and wise ones do.
But dust was thrown upon his sacred head;
But empty lodgings and unfurnish'd walls,
But ere I last receiv'd the sacrament
But ere the crown he looks for live in peace,
But every puny whipster gets my sword.
But for his own; and for the right of that
But for my sport and profit. I hate the Moor,
But for the handkerchief-
But for thy world enjoying but this land,
But he bears both the sentence and the sorrow
But he that filches from me my good name
But he, my lord, is gone to Ravenspurgh,
But heaven hath a hand in these events,
But here is Carlisle living, to abide
But if I could, by Him that gave me life,
But if I give my wife a handkerchief-
But if you faint, as fearing to do so,
But if you know not this, my manners tell me
But in the balance of great Bolingbroke,
But in this kind to come, in braving arms,
But jealous for they are jealous. 'Tis a monster
But kill him rather. I'll after that same villain,
But let her live.
But let thy spiders, that suck up thy venom,
But little vantage shall I reap thereby,
But lusty, young, and cheerly drawing breath.
But makes one pardon strong.
But men are men; the best sometimes forget.
But neither my good word nor princely favour;
But never more be officer of mine.
But never taint my love. I cannot say "whore."
But none returns. For us to levy power
But not intentively. I did consent,
But not my griefs; still am I king of those.
But not the words.
But notwithstanding with my personal eye
But now I find I had suborn'd the witness,
But now I know thy mind: thou dost suspect
But only they have privilege to live.
But our new heraldry is hands, not hearts.
But pardon me. I do not in position
But partly led to diet my revenge,
But presently prevent the ways to wail.
But riches fineless is as poor as winter
But seeming so, for my peculiar end.
But self-affrighted tremble at his sin.
But since I cannot, be it known unto you
But since correction lieth in those hands
But since it would not, he had none of me.
But sith I am enter'd in this cause so far,
But soft, but see, or rather do not see,
But some uncleanly apprehensions
But stay, here come the gardeners.
But still the house affairs would draw her thence,
But stop no wrinkle in his pilgrimage;
But that I did proceed upon just grounds
But that I love the gentle Desdemona,
But that I was a journeyman to grief?
But that he's well and will be shortly here.
But that is lost for being Richard's friend,
But that my coat is better than thou know'st;
But that our loves and comforts should increase,
But that, belike, Iago in the interim
But the Queen's kindred, and night-walking heralds
But the free comfort which from thence he hears;
But the main article I do approve
But theirs is sweet'ned with the hope to have
But then more 'why?'-why have they dar'd to march
But there, where I have garner'd up my heart,
But they are cruel tears; this sorrow's heavenly,
But they can see a sort of traitors here.
But they must blab-
But thou shouldst please me better wouldst thou weep.
But thou the King. Woe doth the heavier sit
But though they jump not on a just account-
But time will not permit. All is uneven,
But to be free and bounteous to her mind.
But to go hang my head all at one side
But to know so must be my benefit;
But to the next high way, and there I left him.
But tread the stranger paths of banishment.
But we have reason to cool our raging motions, our carnal stings,
But we must win your Grace to go with us
But what it is that is not yet known what,
But what serve for thunder? Precious villain!
But what should go by water. Prithee, tonight
But what thou art, God, thou, and I, do know;
But what's the matter, Clarence? May I know?
But what, a God's name, doth become of this?
But when from under this terrestrial ball
But when he frown'd, it was against the French
But whether they be ta'en or slain we hear not.
But who comes here? The new-delivered Hastings?
But why should honor outlive honesty?
But with a knave of common hire, a gondolier,
But with a little act upon the blood
But with such general warranty of heaven
But words are words; I never yet did hear
But yet I run before my horse to market.
But yet keep time in all. Will you withdraw?
But you gave leave to my unwilling tongue
But, for the concord of my state and time,
But, lords, we hear this fearful tempest sing,
Buys herself bread and clothes. It is a creature
By Bushy, Bagot, and their complices,
By Roderigo, and fellows that are 'scaped;
By Roderigo.
By Signior Angelo.
By all my hopes, most falsely doth he lie
By bare imagination of a feast?
By being in his eye. Most gracious Duke,
By debitor and creditor. This counter-caster,
By drunken prophecies, libels, and dreams,
By envy's hand and murder's bloody axe.
By flatterers; and what they will inform,
By heaven, I'll hate him everlastingly
By his attorneys-general to sue
By his dear absence. Let me go with him.
By marrying her which I must reach unto.
By me that's said or done amiss this night,
By no assay of reason; 'tis a pageant
By pardoning Rutland, my transgressing boy.
By seeing the worst, which late on hopes depended.
By sight of what I have, your noble company.
By so much fills their hearts with deadly hate.
By spells and medicines bought of mountebanks;
By that and all the rites of knighthood else
By that fair sun which shows me where thou stand'st,
By thinking on fantastic summer's heat?
By thinking on the frosty Caucasus?
By this time, had the King permitted us,
By what you see them act. Is there not charms
By which the property of youth and maidhood
By you invited, do attend your presence.
By you unhappied and disfigured clean;
Call all in all sufficient? This the nature
Call him a slanderous coward and a villain;
Call in the letters patents that he hath
Call it not patience, Gaunt-it is despair;
Call thee to answer.
Call'd Roderigo.
Cam'st thou by this ill tidings? Speak, thou wretch.
Came in and satisfied him.
Can arbitrate this cause betwixt us twain;
Can change their moons and bring their times about,
Can gripe the sacred handle of our sceptre,
Can hold the mortise? What shall we hear of this?
Can ransom me into his love again,
Can wash the balm off from an anointed king;
Cannot be truly follow'd. You shall mark
Cannot but feel this wrong as 'twere their own;
Cannot remove nor choke the strong conception
Cannot with safety cast him, for he's embark'd
Cassio came hither. I shifted him away,
Cassio in Othello's place.
Cassio knows you not. I'll not be far from you. Do you find some
Cassio shall have my place. And, sir, tonight,
Cassio's a proper man. Let me see now-
Cassio.
Cassio. Ay, smile upon her, do; I will gyve thee in thine own
Cast off his chains of bondage, and embrace
Change the complexion of her maid-pale peace
Chaos is come again.
Cheated of feature by dissembling nature,
Cherish rebellion, and are rebels all.
Choose out some secret place, some reverend room,
Christian and heathen, must be belee'd and calm'd
Clarence hath not another day to live;
Clarence still breathes; Edward still lives and reigns;
Com'st thou because the anointed King is hence?
Come I appellant to this princely presence.
Come from the Duke. And, see your wife is with him.
Come hither, Moor.
Come home with me to supper; I will lay
Come in and give some help.
Come on, our queen; to-morrow must we part;
Come, Desdemona, 'tis the soldiers' life.
Come, Desdemona, I have but an hour
Come, come, in wooing sorrow let's be brief,
Come, gentlemen, let's all go visit him.
Come, go with me apart; I will withdraw,
Come, guard the door without; let him not pass,
Come, how wouldst thou praise me?
Come, mistress, you must tell's another tale.
Come, mourn with me for what I do lament,
Come, now towards Chertsey with your holy load,
Come, sister-cousin, I would say-pray, pardon me.
Comes at the last, and with a little pin
Comes from my love. But I do see you're moved;
Comes from my pate as birdlime does from frieze;
Comes rushing on this woeful land at once!
Comfort forswear me! Unkindness may do much,
Comfort's in heaven; and we are on the earth,
Commend me to my kind lord. O, farewell!                    Dies.
Commend me to thy brother, Edmund York.
Commit'st thy anointed body to the cure
Committed by your person and your followers
Committed? O thou public commoner!
Complotted and contrived in this land
Comprising all that may be sworn or said,
Concerning this, sir- O well-painted passion!-
Concerning you.
Condemns you to the death. See them delivered over
Confess thy treasons ere thou fly the realm;
Confine yourself but in a patient list.
Conserved of maiden's hearts.
Consuming means, soon preys upon itself.
Containing the deposing of a king
Content thyself awhile. By the mass, 'tis morning;
Controlling majesty. Alack, alack, for woe,
Convey me to my bed, then to my grave.
Convinced or supplied them, cannot choose
Cough, or cry "hem," if anybody come.
Could neither graze nor pierce?
Could not have laid such terms upon his callet.
Countess of Salisbury)
Courageously and with a free desire
Cousin of Hereford, as thy cause is right,
Cousin of Hereford, what dost thou object
Cousin, I am too young to be your father,
Cover your heads, and mock not flesh and blood
Cried, "Cursed fate that gave thee to the Moor!"
Cry woe, destruction, ruin, and decay-
Cry, "O sweet creature!" and then kiss me hard,
Currents that spring from one most gracious head,
Cursed the blood that let this blood from hence!
Cursed the heart that had the heart to do it!
Cut off the heads of too fast growing sprays
Damn'd as thou art, thou hast enchanted her,
Dangerous conceits are in their natures poisons,
Dar'd once to touch a dust of England's ground?
Dar'st thou, thou little better thing than earth,
Darest with thy frozen admonition
Dear earth, I do salute thee with my hand,
Dear for her reputation through the world,
Deep malice makes too deep incision.
Defiance to the traitor, and so die?
Deform'd, unfinish'd, sent before my time
Delighted them in any other form,
Depose him in the justice of his cause.
Deposing thee before thou wert possess'd,
Deputing Cassio in his government.
Descry a sail.
Desires for sport, and frailty, as men have?
Desolate, desolate, will I hence and die;
Despite of death, that lives upon my grave
Destruction on my head, if my bad blame
Destruction straight shall dog them at the heels.
Devesting them for bed; and then, but now
Devour up my discourse; which I observing,
Devouring pestilence hangs in our air
Did I but speak thy deeds. What committed!
Did I my soul and fortunes consecrate.
Did an Egyptian to my mother give;
Did grace our hollow parting with a tear.
Did keep ten thousand men? Was this the face
Did not the one deserve to have an heir?
Did scowl on gentle Richard; no man cried 'God save him!'
Did they not sometime cry 'All hail!' to me?
Did triumph in my face, and they are fled;
Did win what he did spend, and spent not that
Did you and he consent in Cassio's death?
Did you by indirect and forced courses
Didst not mark that?
Direct not him whose way himself will choose.
Directly to his good? Divinity of hell!
Disburs'd I duly to his Highness' soldiers;
Discharge my followers; let them hence away,
Disclaiming here the kindred of the King;
Disorder, horror, fear, and mutiny,
Dispark'd my parks and fell'd my forest woods,
Distinctly speak of her; though I may fear,
Distinguish form. So your sweet Majesty,
Dive, thoughts, down to my soul. Here Clarence comes.
Divides one thing entire to many objects,
Divine his downfall? Say, where, when, and how,
Do deeds to make heaven weep, all earth amazed;
Do grow beneath their shoulders. This to hear
Do it with gentle means and easy tasks.
Do themselves homage. These fellows have some soul,
Do well thrive by them; and when they have lined their coats
Do with so good a wife?
Do wound the bark, the skin of our fruit trees,
Do you go back dismay'd? 'Tis a lost fear.
Do you intend it?
Do you perceive in all this noble company
Do you perceive the gastness of her eye?
Do you see, gentlemen? Nay, guiltiness will speak,
Do you withdraw yourself a little while,
Does challenge much respect. Come, Desdemona,
Does tire the ingener.
Does't not go well? Cassio hath beaten thee,
Dogs, easily won to fawn on any man!
Doing annoyance to the treacherous feet
Dost thou in conscience think- tell me, Emilia-
Doth like a poisonous mineral gnaw my inwards,
Doth more solicit me than your exclaims
Doth not thy embassage belong to me,
Doth that bode weeping?
Doth with a twofold vigour lift me up
Doubly portcullis'd with my teeth and lips;
Draw near,
Draws out our miles, and makes them wearisome;
Draws the sweet infant breath of gentle sleep;
Drew all such humors from him.
Drink, ho!- are nothing to your English.
Drinking my griefs, whilst you mount up on high.
Drop tears as fast as the Arabian trees
Due reference of place and exhibition,
Due to the Moor, my lord.
Duke of Gloucester
Dull not device by coldness and delay.                      Exit.
Each drop she falls would prove a crocodile.
Each syllable that breath made up between them.
Eating the bitter bread of banishment,
Edward's seven sons, whereof thyself art one,
Eight score eight hours? and lovers' absent hours,
Either I must, or have mine honour soil'd
Either for her stay or going. The affair cries haste,
Either from Venice or some unhatch'd practice
Either in discourse of thought or actual deed,
Either, heav'n, with lightning strike the murd'rer dead;
Embrace each other's love in banishment;
Emilia, run you to the citadel,
Emilia, though he be thy husband. How say you, Cassio? Is he not
End in a word: such is the breath of Kings.
Enforce attention like deep harmony.
Enfranchisement immediate on his knees;
Engage it to the trial, if thou dar'st.
Engage it to the trial, if thou darest.
England, bound in with the triumphant sea,
Enter KING and QUEEN, AUMERLE, BUSHY, GREEN, BAGOT,
Entirely honor. I would not be delay'd.
Entirely to her love, but if she lost it
Enwheel thee round!
Ere further leisure yicld them further means
Ere't be disburdened with a liberal tongue.
Esteem as foil wherein thou art to set
Evades them, with a bumbast circumstance
Even as her appetite shall play the god
Even as our days do grow!
Even at his feet to lay my arms and power,
Even fall upon my life.
Even from the east to the west!
Even from the tongueless caverns of the earth,
Even in the best blood chamber'd in his bosom.
Even in the lusty haviour of his son.
Even like thy chastity. O cursed, cursed slave!
Even now, now, very now, an old black ram
Even on the instant.
Even so my bloody thoughts, with violent pace,
Even so, or with much more contempt, men's eyes
Even such, they say, as stand in narrow lanes
Even then this forked plague is fated to us
Even till we make the main and the aerial blue
Even to madness. 'Tis here, but yet confused:
Even to the frozen ridges of the Alps,
Even to the very quality of my lord.
Every way makes my gain. Live Roderigo,
Exceed three days. In faith, he's penitent;
Except Eke curs to tear us all to pieces.
Except the Marshal and such officers
Exist and be a member of his love
Expedient manage must be made, my liege,
Fall like amazing thunder on the casque
Fall to the base earth from the firmament!
Fall'n in the practice of a damned slave,
Falls.
Farewell at once-for once, for all, and ever.
Farewell the neighing steed and the shrill trump,
Farewell the plumed troop and the big wars
Farewell the tranquil mind! Farewell content!
Farewell! Othello's occupation's gone!
Farewell, my blood; which if to-day thou shed,
Farewell, my liege. Now no way can I stray:
Farewell, old Gaunt; thy sometimes brother's wife,
Farewell. If heart's presages be not vain,
Farewell. Our countrymen are gone and fled,
Fathers, from hence trust not your daughters' minds
Fear and be slain-no worse can come to fight;
Fear'd by their breed, and famous by their birth,
Fear, and not love, begets his penitence.
Feed not thy sovereign's foe, my gentle earth,
Fell sorrow's tooth doth never rankle more
Fetch from false Mowbray their first head and spring.
Fill'd it with cursing cries and deep exclaims.
Find shapes of grief more than himself to wail;
First, the fair reverence of your Highness curbs me
Fled from her wish and yet said, "Now I may";
Foh, one may smell in such a will most rank,
For 'tis a damned slave.       Exeunt all but Othello and Emilia.
For 'tis a sign of love; and love to Richard
For 'tis of aspics' tongues!
For 'tis thy presence that exhales this blood
For 'twas that hand that gave away my heart.
For 'twere no charity; yet, to wash your blood
For Christian service and true chivalry,
For Christian shame, put by this barbarous brawl.
For God's sake let us sit upon the ground
For God's sake, fairly let her be entreated.
For I am loath to break our country's laws.
For I am nothing if not critical.
For I attend here, but I'll see you soon.
For I have given here my soul's consent
For I have lost him on a dangerous sea.
For I have none. Let no man speak again
For I have served him, and the man commands
For I mine own gain'd knowledge should profane
For I will make him tell the tale anew,
For I'll refer me to all things of sense,
For Jesu Christ in glorious Christian field,
For Mowbray and myself are like two men
For a small vice.
For all in vain comes counsel to his ear.
For all the Welshmen, hearing thou wert dead,
For an abuser of the world, a practicer
For ancient quarrels and quite lost their hearts.
For both hast thou, and both become the grave.
For daws to peck at: I am not what I am.
For do but stand upon the foaming shore,
For do we must what force will have us do.
For ere the six years that he hath to spend
For even her folly help'd her to an heir.
For ever will I walk upon my knees,
For every man that Bolingbroke hath press'd
For every minute is expectancy
For gay apparel 'gainst the triumph-day.
For gnarling sorrow hath less power to bite
For he conjured her she should ever keep it,
For he is just, and always lov'd us well.
For he was great of heart.
For here's a young and sweating devil here
For his designs crave haste, his haste good hope.
For his quick hunting, stand the putting on,
For if he be not one that truly loves you,
For if of joy, being altogether wanting,
For if she be not honest, chaste, and true,
For if such actions may have passage free,
For let our finger ache, and it indues
For making him egregiously an ass
For me, if I be gor'd with Mowbray's spear.
For my free speech! You must awhile be patient.
For nature so preposterously to err,
For night-owls shriek where mounting larks should sing.
For no thought is contented. The better sort,
For nothing but his Majesty's approach.
For nothing canst thou to damnation add
For nothing hath begot my something grief,
For nought but provender, and when he's old, cashier'd.
For nought did I in hate, but all in honor.
For now hath time made me his numb'ring clock:
For now the devil, that told me I did well,
For often with a solemn earnestness,
For on my heart they tread now whilst I live,
For others' uses. Yet, 'tis the plague of great ones:
For our affairs in hand. If that come short,
For she had eyes and chose me. No, Iago,
For she is with me. No, when light-wing'd toys
For since these arms of mine had seven years' pith,
For sleeping England long time have I watch'd;
For sorrow ends not when it seemeth done.
For sorrow's eye, glazed with blinding tears,
For such proceeding I am charged withal-
For such things in a false disloyal knave
For suffering so the causes of our wreck.
For sure he fills it up with great ability,
For taking so the head, your whole head's length.
For that I do suspect the lusty Moor
For that I heard the clink and fall of swords,
For that I was his father Edward's son;
For that it stands not in such warlike brace,
For that my sovereign liege was in my debt
For that our kingdom's earth should not be soil'd
For that same handkerchief?
For the deposing of a rightful king.
For the fair devil. Now art thou my lieutenant.
For the sea's worth. But, look! What lights come yond?
For the whole world.
For their advantage and your Highness' loss.
For then I'll marry Warwick's youngest daughter.
For there it is, crack'd in a hundred shivers.
For there, they say, he daily doth frequent
For they breathe truth that breathe their words -in pain.
For they succeed on you. To you, Lord Governor,
For they that were your enemies are his,
For this was brief- I found them close together,
For thou hast kill'd the sweetest innocent
For thou hast made the happy earth thy hell
For though it have holp madmen to their wits,
For though mine enemy thou hast ever been,
For thus deluding you.
For thy escape would teach me tyranny,
For thy great bounty, that not only giv'st
For thy solicitor shall rather die
For time hath set a blot upon my pride.
For to deny each article with oath
For too much loving you.
For violent fires soon burn out themselves;
For we will make for Ireland presently.
For well we know no hand of blood and bone
For what I have I need not to repeat,
For when I was a king, my flatterers
For when my outward action doth demonstrate
For why, the senseless brands will sympathize
For you have but mistook me all this while.
For you, my noble Lord of Lancaster,
For young hot colts being rag'd do rage the more.
For your displeasure, but all will sure be well.
For, as I think, they do command him home,
For, in my sense, 'tis happiness to die.
For, sir,
Forbear your conference with the noble Duke.
Forget to pity him, lest thy pity prove
Forget, forgive; conclude and be agreed:
Forgiveness, horse! Why do I rail on thee,
Forsooth, a great arithmetician,
Forth of my heart those charms, thine eyes, are blotted;
Foul disproportion, thoughts unnatural.
Found in his pocket too; and this, it seems,
Found in the pocket of the slain Roderigo,
Found truth in all but one; I, in twelve thousand, none.
Four lagging winters and four wanton springs
Free speech and fearless I to thee allow.
Frighting her pale-fac'd villages with war
From Ravenspurgh to Cotswold will be found
From Richard's night to Bolingbroke's fair day.       Exeunt
From any other foul unlawful touch
From cold and empty veins where no blood dwells;
From forth the ranks of many thousand French,
From forth thy reach he would have laid thy shame,
From giving reins and spurs to my free speech;
From her propriety. What is the matter, masters?
From him that fled some strange indignity,
From jealousy!
From men of royal siege, and my demerits
From my own windows torn my household coat,
From off my hands, here in the view of men
From one that so imperfectly conceits,
From out the fiery portal of the east,
From plume-pluck'd Richard, who with willing soul
From some forefather grief; mine is not so,
From sun to sun. There is my honour's pawn;
From the excess of laughter. Here he comes.
From the most gracious regent of this land,
From the possession of this heavenly sight!
From this time forth I never will speak word.
From whence this present day he is delivered?
From whence this stream through muddy passages
From whence you have them. You are jealous now
From where you do remain let paper show.
From which awak'd, the truth of what we are
From year to year, the battles, sieges, fortunes,
Full of crusadoes; and, but my noble Moor
Further I say, and further will maintain
Gard'ner, for telling me these news of woe,
Gaunt am I for the grave, gaunt as a grave,
Gentlemen, will you go muster men?
Give Richard leave to live till Richard die?
Give him defense against the elements,
Give me a taper! Call up all my people!
Give me advantage of some brief discourse
Give me his gage-lions make leopards tame.
Give me my nightly wearing, and adieu.
Give me some help.
Give me that glass, and therein will I read.
Give renew'd fire to our extincted spirits,
Give some supportance to the bending twigs.
Give sorrow leave awhile to tutor me
Give't me again. Poor lady, she'll run mad
Given to captivity me and my utmost hopes,
Gives but the greater feeling to the worse.
Gives, in your weakness, strength unto your foe,
Go I to fight: truth hath a quiet breast.
Go in, and weep not; all things shall be well.
Go know of Cassio where he supp'd tonight.
Go thou and fill another room in hell.
Go thou, and Eke an executioner
Go to Flint Castle; there I'll pine away;
Go to the bay and disembark my coffers.
Go to the rude ribs of that ancient castle;
Go, count thy way with sighs; I mine with groans.
Go, fellow, get thee home, provide some carts,
Go, leave me.                                        Exit Emilia.
Go, say I sent thee forth to purchase honour,
Go, signify as much, while here we march
Go, vanish into air, away!                      Exeunt Musicians.
God be wi' you; take mine office. O wretched fool,
God for his Richard hath in heavenly pay
God for his mercy, what treachery is here!
God keep all vows unbroke are made to thee!
God knows I had as lief be none as one.
God pardon all oaths that are broke to me!
God save King Henry, unking'd Richard says,
God save the King! Will no man say amen?
God save the King! although I be not he;
Good Brabantio,
Good ancient, you are welcome. [To Emilia.] Welcome, mistress.
Good friend, go to him, for by this light of heaven,
Good heaven, the souls of all my tribe defend
Good king, great king, and yet not greatly good,
Good night to everyone. [To Brabantio.] And, noble signior,
Good night.
Good signior, you shall more command with years
Good sometimes queen, prepare thee hence for France.
Good uncle, help to order several powers
Good uncle, let this end where it begun;
Got my Lord Chamberlain his liberty.
Grace me no grace, nor uncle me no uncle.
Greater he shall not be; if he serve God,
Greater than that.
Grim-visag'd war hath smooth'd his wrinkled front,
Groom, and other Attendants
Grows strong and great in substance and in power.
Guard it, I pray thee, with a lurking adder,
Ha, ha! keep time. How sour sweet music is
Had I thy youtli and cause, I would not stay.
Had he done so to great and growing men,
Had he done so, himself had home the crown,
Had not an ear to hear my true time broke.
Had stomach for them all.
Had tongue at will and yet was never loud,
Had you first died, and he been thus trod down,
Hall to thee, lady! And the grace of heaven,
Hark, canst thou hear me? I will play the swan,
Hark, how these instruments summon to supper!
Harry Bolingbroke, doth humbly kiss thy hand;
Harry, how fares your uncle?
Hast thou tapp'd out, and drunkenly carous'd.
Hast thou, according to thy oath and band,
Hath broken his staff, resign'd his stewardship,
Hath caus'd his death; the which if wrongfully,
Hath clouded all thy happy days on earth.
Hath founded his good fortunes on your love,
Hath from the number of his banish'd years
Hath held his current and defil'd himself!
Hath hither brought.
Hath leap'd into my seat; the thought whereof
Hath love in thy old blood no living fire?
Hath made a shameful conquest of itself.
Hath made the flinty and steel couch of war
Hath mov'd his Highness to commit me now.
Hath now himself met with the fall of leaf;
Hath power enough to serve our turn. But who comes here?
Hath power to keep you king in spite of all.
Hath puddled his clear spirit; and in such cases
Hath raised me from my bed, nor doth the general care
Hath seen a grievous wreck and sufferance
Hath seiz'd the wasteful King. O, what pity is it
Hath ta'en your part- to have so much to do
Hath this extent, no more. Rude am I in my speech,
Hath thus beguiled your daughter of herself
Hath with the King's blood stain'd the King's own land.
Hath yielded up his body to the grave;
Have I deserved at your Highness' hands.
Have I not reason to look pale and dead?
Have I tonight fluster'd with flowing cups,
Have any resting for her true King's queen.
Have been so brief with you to shorten you,
Have ever made me sour my patient cheek
Have felt the worst of death's destroying wound
Have here deliver'd me to my sour cross,
Have no delight to pass away the time,
Have not devised this slander; I'll be hang'd else.
Have sent a dozen sequent messengers
Have stoop'd my neck under your injuries
Have there injointed them with an after fleet.
Have torn their souls by turning them from us,
Have we more sons? or are we like to have?
Have woe to woe, sorrow to sorrow join'd.
Have you forgot all place of sense and duty?
Have you not sometimes seen a handkerchief
Having my freedom, boast of nothing else
He bears the sentence well, that nothing bears
He begg'd of me to steal it.
He calls me to a restitution large
He cannot live, I hope, and must not die
He capers nimbly in a lady's chamber
He comes to bad intent.
He fires the proud tops of the eastern pines
He has done my office. I know not if't be true,
He hath a daily beauty in his life
He hath a person and a smooth dispose
He hath and is again to cope your wife.
He hath commanded me to go to bed,
He hearkens after prophecies and dreams,
He is a good one, and his worthiness
He is a soldier fit to stand by Caesar
He is as like thee as a man may be
He is our subject, Mowbray; so art thou:
He loves you, on my life, and holds you dear
He may surrender; so we shall proceed
He might have chid me so, for in good faith,
He might not but refuse you; but he protests he loves you
He prays but faintly and would be denied;
He robs himself that spends a bootless grief.
He says thou told'st him that his wife was false;
He shall in strangeness stand no farther off
He shortens four years of my son's exile;
He should have found his uncle Gaunt a father
He should have had a volume of farewells;
He should, for that, commit your godfathers.
He that doth naught with her, excepting one,
He that hath suffer'd this disorder'd spring
He that is robb'd, not wanting what is stol'n,
He that no more must say is listen'd more
He that stirs next to carve for his own rage
He thought 'twas witchcraft- but I am much to blame;
He tires betimes that spurs too fast betimes;
He was not so resolv'd when last we spake together.
He will recover straight. When he is gone,
He would unhorse the lustiest challenger.
He wrought upon her.
He'll be as full of quarrel and offense
He'll watch the horologe a double set,
He's almost slain, and Roderigo dead.
He's never anything but your true servant.
He, in good time, must his lieutenant be,
He, when he hears of her, cannot refrain
Heard you not what an humble suppliant
Heaven is my judge, not I for love and duty,
Heaven knows, not I;
Heaven stops the nose at it, and the moon winks;
Help! help, ho! help! O lady, speak again!
Help, ho!- Lieutenant- sir- Montano- sir-
Help, masters!- Here's a goodly watch indeed!
Hence, villain! never more come in my sight.
Henry Bolingbroke
Henry VI; afterwards married to the Duke of Gloucester
Henry of Hereford, Lancaster, and Derby,
Her father and her country and her friends,
Her fruit trees all unprun'd, her hedges ruin'd,
Her knots disordered, and her wholesome herbs
Her pastures' grass with faithful English blood.
Her will, recoiling to her better judgement,
Here am I left to underprop his land,
Here comes his Grace in person. My noble uncle!
Here comes the lady; let her witness it.
Here did she fall a tear; here in this place
Here is my journey's end, here is my butt
Here is the man, this Moor, whom now, it seems,
Here let us rest, if this rebellious earth
Here to make good the boist'rous late appeal,
Here, cousin,
High be our thoughts. I know my uncle York
High sparks of honour in thee have I seen.
High-stomach'd are they both and full of ire,
His Majesty hath straitly given in charge
His barbed steeds to stables, and his heart
His bed shall seem a school, his board a shrift;
His body to that pleasant country's earth,
His brother, Archbishop late of Canterbury,
His burdenous taxations notwithstanding,
His captain, steward, deputy elect,
His charters and his customary rights;
His coming hither hath no further scope
His deputy anointed in His sight,
His eyes do drop no tears, his prayers are in jest;
His face still combating with tears and smiles,
His face thou hast, for even so look'd he,
His glittering arms he will commend to rust,
His golden uncontroll'd enfranchisement,
His hands were guilty of no kindred blood,
His issue disinherited should be;
His livery, and deny his off'red homage,
His noble cousin is right welcome hither;
His plate, his goods, his money, and his lands.
His prayers are full of false hypocrisy;
His present reconciliation take;
His rash fierce blaze of riot cannot last,
His soul is so enfetter'd to her love,
His soul thou canst not have; therefore, be gone.
His time is spent, our pilgrimage must be.
His tongue is now a stringless instrument;
His treasons will sit blushing in his face,
His weary joints would gladly rise, I know;
His words come from his mouth, ours from our breast.
Hold! the general speaks to you! Hold, hold, for shame!
Hold, take my ring.
Holds his soul light; he dies upon his motion.
Honest Iago hath ta'en order for't.
Honest Iago, that look'st dead with grieving,
Honey, you shall be well desired in Cyprus;
Horribly stuff'd with epithets of war,
Hot, hot, and moist. This hand of yours requires
How God and good men hate so foul a liar.
How I did thrive in this fair lady's love
How came you, Cassio, by that handkerchief
How can you say to me I am a king?
How comes this trick upon him?
How dares thy harsh rude tongue sound this unpleasing news?
How didst thou know 'twas she? O, she deceives me
How do you, Desdemona?
How do you, madam? How do you, my good lady?
How does my old acquaintance of this isle?
How far brought you high Hereford on his way?
How happy then were my ensuing death!
How hath your lordship brook'd imprisonment?
How have I been behaved, that he might stick
How he did seem to dive into their hearts
How he upbraids Iago, that he made him
How is it with you, my most fair Bianca?
How is it, general? Have you not hurt your head?
How may the Duke be therewith satisfied,
How near the tidings of our comfort is.
How now, Roderigo!
How quickly should you speed!
How say you, sir? Can you deny all this?
How shall we do for money for these wars?
How silent is this town! Ho! Murther! Murther!
How some have been depos'd, some slain in war,
How soon my sorrow hath destroy'd my face.
How this foul rout began, who set it on,
How to lament the cause. I'll beg one boon,
How to respect you; you are the lord of duty,
How went he under him?
However this may gall him with some check,
I am a child to chiding.
I am a stranger here in Gloucestershire.
I am commanded home. Get you away;
I am denied to sue my livery here,
I am determined to prove a villain
I am disgrac'd, impeach'd, and baffl'd here;
I am glad at soul I have no other child;
I am hitherto your daughter. But here's my husband,
I am in Parliament pledge for his truth
I am most unhappy in the loss of it.
I am no traitor's uncle; and that word 'grace'
I am not bound to that all slaves are free to.
I am sure it was your wife's- did I today
I am sure, is sent for.
I am the King's friend, and will rid his foe.         Exeunt
I am the last of noble Edward's sons,
I am to pray you not to strain my speech
I am too old to fawn upon a nurse,
I can again thy former light restore,
I cannot but be sad; so heavy sad
I cannot do it. Yet I'll hammer it out.
I cannot do it; yet I know no cause
I cannot give it vital growth again,
I cannot mend it, I must needs confess,
I cannot name; 'tis nameless woe, I wot.
I cannot speak enough of this content;
I cannot weep, nor answer have I none
I cannot, 'twixt the heaven and the main,
I care not for thy sword; I'll make thee known,
I could not sleep.
I count myself in nothing else so happy
I crave fit disposition for my wife,
I dare be sworn I think that he is honest.
I dare meet Surrey in a wilderness,
I did confess it, and exactly begg'd
I did full hard forbear him. But I pray you, sir,
I do beseech your lordship, call her back.
I do confess the vices of my blood,
I do defy him, and I spit at him,
I do entreat that we may sup together.
I do love Cassio well, and would do much
I do not so secure me in the error,
I do not think but Desdemona's honest.
I do perceive here a divided duty.
I do remain as neuter. So, fare you well;
I do repent me that I put it to you.
I do repent me; read not my name there;
I doubt not but to ride as fast as York;
I fear the trust Othello puts him in
I fear, I fear-
I find in hardness and do undertake
I find it still when I have list to sleep.
I find myself a traitor with the rest;
I follow him to serve my turn upon him:
I found by fortune and did give my husband,
I found not Cassio's kisses on her lips.
I give thee warrant of thy place, assure thee,
I give this heavy weight from off my head,
I had been still a happy king of men.
I had rather have this tongue cut from my mouth
I had rather to adopt a child than get it.
I had thought to have yerk'd him here under the ribs.
I hate the murderer, love him murdered.
I have a king here to my flatterer.
I have a thousand spirits in one breast
I have been talking with a suitor here,
I have charged thee not to haunt about my doors.
I have done the state some service, and they know't.
I have found great love amongst them. O my sweet,
I have had feeling of my cousin's wrongs,
I have made my way through more impediments
I have no judgement in an honest face.
I have this while with leaden thoughts been press'd;
I have't. It is engender'd. Hell and night
I heard thee say even now, thou like'st not that,
I heard thee say, and vauntingly thou spak'st it,
I heard you say 'Is not my arm of length,
I heard you say that you had rather refuse
I here do give thee that with all my heart
I here engage my words.
I hope the King is not yet shipp'd for Ireland.
I hope you will consider what is spoke
I humbly beseech you, proceed to the affairs of state.
I humbly do beseech you of your pardon
I know not how I lost him. Here I kneel:
I know not what to do. I would to God,
I know not where is that Promethean heat
I know our country disposition well;
I know she is come to pray for your foul sin.
I know this act shows horrible and grim.
I know thou didst not, thou'rt not such a villain.
I like the work well. Ere it be demanded-
I live with bread like you, feel want,
I may command at most. Get weapons, ho!
I mean the Earl of Wiltshire, Bushy, Green.
I meet the captains at the citadel.
I mock my name, great king, to flatter thee.
I must show out a flag and sign of love,
I ne'er might say before. When I came back-
I never did like molestation view
I never gave it him. Send for him hither;
I never in my life did look on him.
I never long'd to hear a word till now;
I nothing but to please his fantasy.
I pardon him.
I play the torturer, by small and small
I pour the helpless balm of my poor eyes.
I prattle out of fashion, and I dote
I pray you, after the lieutenant; go.              Exit Roderigo.
I pray you, bring me on the way a little,
I pray you, turn the key, and keep our counsel.             Exit.
I prithee, call him back.
I prithee, let thy wife attend on her,
I prithee, name the time, but let it not
I prithee, speak to me as to thy thinkings,
I ran it through, even from my boyish days
I saw Othello's visage in his mind,
I saw the handkerchief.
I saw't not, thought it not, it harm'd not me;
I say again, hath made a gross revolt,
I say thy husband. Dost understand the word?
I say, but mark his gesture. Marry, patience,
I scarce did know you, uncle; there lies your niece,
I see old Gaunt alive. O, then, my father,
I see some sparks of better hope, which elder years
I see thy glory like a shooting star
I see thy grieved heart. Thy sad aspect
I see your brows are full of discontent,
I shall promulgate- I fetch my life and being
I shall remember more. Bid him- ah, what?-
I shall then have to prefer them, and the impediment most
I should but teach him how to tell my story,
I should have found in some place of my soul
I should make very forges of my cheeks,
I should to Plashy too,
I slept the next night well, was free and merry;
I slew him not, but to my own disgrace
I speak no more than every one doth know.
I speak to subjects, and a subject speaks,
I spy life peering; but I dare not say
I stand accountant for as great a sin,
I swear 'tis better to be much abused
I take my leave before I have begun,
I talk but idly, and you laugh at me.
I thank you for this profit, and from hence
I that am cruel am yet merciful;
I therefore apprehend and do attach thee
I think it doth. Is't frailty that thus errs?
I think it is. And doth affection breed it?
I think my wife be honest, and think she is not;
I think she stirs again. No. What's best to do?
I think that thou art just, and think thou art not.
I think upon't, I think, I smell't, O villainy!
I thought so then. I'll kill myself for grief.
I thus would play and trifle with your reverence.
I took by the throat the circumcised dog
I took you for that cunning whore of Venice
I tore it from the traitor's bosom, King;
I understand a fury in your words,
I wander from the jewels that I love.
I warrant they have made peace with Bolingbroke.
I was too strict to make mine own away;
I was, unhandsome warrior as I am,
I wasted time, and now doth time waste me;
I will a round unvarnish'd tale deliver
I will appeach the villain.
I will attempt the doing it.                                Exit.
I will be found most cunning in my patience;
I will be satisfied; let me see the writing.
I will bestow you where you shall have time
I will but spend a word here in the house
I will deliver or else lie for you.
I will deny thee nothing.
I will despair, and be at enmity
I will go on. I lay with Cassio lately
I will in Cassio's lodging lose this napkin,
I will make proof of thine.           Draws, and wounds Roderigo.
I will perform it to enfranchise you.
I will unfold some causes of your deaths:
I will your serious and great business scant
I won his daughter.
I would appeach him.
I would attach you all and make you stoop
I would keep from thee. For your sake, jewel,
I would my skill were subject to thy curse.
I would not have thee linger in thy pain.
I would not have your free and noble nature
I would not kill thy unprepared spirit.
I would not my unhoused free condition
I would on great occasion speak with you.            Exit Cassio.
I would to God, my lords, he might be found.
I would to heaven he were!
I'faith, sweet love, I was coming to your house.
I'ld not have sold her for it.
I'ld whistle her off and let her down the wind
I'll answer thee in any fair degree
I'll dispose of you. Gentlemen, go muster up your men
I'll fetch the general's surgeon. [To Bianca.] For you, mistress,
I'll give my jewels for a set of beads,
I'll have our Michael Cassio on the hip,
I'll have some proof. Her name, that was as fresh
I'll in to urge his hatred more to Clarence
I'll intermingle everything he does
I'll love no friend sith love breeds such offense.
I'll make a corse of him that disobeys!
I'll make a voyage to the Holy Land,
I'll make thee an example.
I'll not be long behind; though I be old,
I'll not believe't.
I'll not endure it. Would I were satisfied!
I'll pour this pestilence into his ear,
I'll see before I doubt; when I doubt, prove;
I'll send for you anon. Sir, I obey the mandate,
I'll set a bank of rue, sour herb of grace.
I'll set her on;
I'll tell you what-I think it is our way,
I'll watch him tame and talk him out of patience;
I-that am curtail'd of this fair proportion,
I-that am rudely stamp'd, and want love's majesty
Iago set him on.
Iago, look with care about the town,
If I be traitor or unjustly fight!
If I dare eat, or drink, or breathe, or live,
If I do die before thee, prithee shroud me
If I do find him fit, I'll move your suit,
If I do vow a friendship, I'll perform it
If I had said I had seen him do you wrong?
If I have any grace or power to move you,
If I know how or which way to order these affairs
If I quench thee, thou flaming minister,
If I would time expend with such a snipe
If after every tempest come such calms,
If any plague hang over us, 'tis he.
If any wretch have put this in your head,
If consequence do but approve my dream,
If drink rock not his cradle.
If e'er my will did trespass 'gainst his love
If ever he have child, abortive be it,
If ever he have wife, let her be made
If ever mortal eyes do see them bolster
If guilty dread have left thee so much strength
If haply you my father do suspect
If he appeal the Duke on ancient malice,
If he can carry't thus!
If he may be repeal'd to try his honour.
If heaven will take the present at our hands.
If heaven would make me such another world
If honour may be shrouded in a hearse;
If imputation and strong circumstances,
If it be so, out with it boldly, man;
If it hath ruffian'd so upon the sea,
If it prove lawful prize, he's made forever.
If more thou dost perceive, let me know more;
If my offense be of such mortal kind
If not, I'll use the advantage of my power
If not, he foams at mouth, and by and by
If on the first, how heinous e'er it be,
If she be fair and wise, fairness and wit,
If she be false, O, then heaven mocks itself!
If she be in her chamber or your house,
If she come in, she'll sure speak to my wife.
If she confess that she was half the wooer,
If she in chains of magic were not bound,
If that my cousin king be King in England,
If that the earth could teem with woman's tears,
If that thou be'st a devil, I cannot kill thee.      Wounds Iago.
If then we shall shake off our slavish yoke,
If there be any cunning cruelty
If this be known to you, and your allowance,
If this poor trash of Venice, whom I trace
If thou but think'st him wrong'd and makest his ear
If thou delight to view thy heinous deeds,
If thou deniest it twenty times, thou liest;
If thy offences were upon record,
If to preserve this vessel for my lord
If virtue no delighted beauty lack,
If we be not, show us the hand of God
If we prevail, their heads shall pay for it.
If we will keep in favour with the King,
If wives do fall; say that they slack their duties
If you do find me foul in her report,
If you do wrongfully seize Hereford's rights,
If you think fit, or that it may be done,
If't be your pleasure and most wise consent,
Ill in myself to see, and in thee seeing ill.
Ill mayst thou thrive, if thou grant any grace!
Imp out our drooping country's broken wing,
Impudent strumpet!
In Brittany, receiv'd intelligence
In London streets, that coronation-day,
In Ross and Willoughby, wanting your company,
In Venice they do let heaven see the pranks
In all this presence that hath mov'd me so.
In an extravagant and wheeling stranger
In an ungracious mouth is but profane.
In any honest suit. She's framed as fruitful
In braving arms against thy sovereign.
In complement extern, 'tis not long after
In deadly hate the one against the other;
In double knavery- How, how?- Let's see-
In earth as quiet as thy father's skull.
In fearful sense.
In following him, I follow but myself;
In gross rebellion and detested treason.
In haste whereof, most heartily I pray
In her prophetic fury sew'd the work;
In him, a royal prince, and many moe
In honest plainness thou hast heard me say
In humours like the people of this world,
In lists on Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk,
In me defunct- and proper satisfaction;
In me it seems it will make wise men mad.
In mine own comforts. I prithee, good Iago,
In mouths of wisest censure. What's the matter,
In murders and in outrage boldly here;
In my whole course of wooing, thou criedst, "Indeed!"
In name of lendings for your Highness' soldiers,
In night, and on the court and guard of safety!
In one of those same sheets.
In opposition bloody. I cannot speak
In peace was never gentle lamb more mild,
In proof whereof, there is my honour's pawn;
In quarter, and in terms like bride and groom
In rage, deaf as the sea, hasty as fire.
In simple and pure soul I come to you.
In sleep I heard him say, "Sweet Desdemona,
In some large measure to thy father's death
In speaking for myself. Yet, by your gracious patience,
In stiff unwieldy arms against thy crown;
In such gross kind?
In suff'ring thus thy brother to be slaught'red,
In that I live, and for that will I die.
In that dead time when Gloucester's death was plotted
In that thou seest thy wretched brother die,
In the base court? Base court, where kings grow base,
In the base court? Come down? Down, court! down, king!
In the deep bosom of the ocean buried.
In the devotion of a subject's love,
In the due reverence of a sacred vow                      Kneels.
In the remembrance of a weeping queen.                Exeunt
In this appeal as thou art an unjust;
In this time of the night? Bring him away;
In this your cousin's death.
In thy heart-blood, through being all too base
In war was never lion rag'd more fierce,
In weeping after this untimely bier.                  Exeunt
In wholesome counsel to his unstaid youth?
In winter's tedious nights sit by the fire
In your lord's scale is nothing but himself,
Infusing him with self and vain conceit,
Inquire at London, 'mongst the taverns there,
Into his ruin'd ears, and thus deliver:
Into the vale of years- yet that's not much-
Into this breathing world scarce half made up,
Into your favor.
Is a bold spirit in a loyal breast.
Is a foul traitor to proud Hereford's king;
Is a strange brooch in this all-hating world.
Is all his soldiership. But he, sir, had the election;
Is all unpossible.
Is come on shore; the Moor himself at sea,
Is coming towards me, and my inward soul
Is crack'd, and all the precious liquor spilt;
Is dangerous treason; he is come to open
Is doom'd a prisoner by proud Bolingbroke.
Is foul as slander.
Is free of speech, sings, plays, and dances well;
Is full of weeds; her fairest flowers chok'd up,
Is gone to meet the King, who lately landed
Is hack'd down, and his summer leaves all faded,
Is he not honest?
Is he not like thee? Is he not thine own?
Is hush'd within the hollow mine of earth,
Is it not more than shame to shame it so?
Is made my gaoler to attend on me.
Is mustering in his clouds on our behalf
Is my kinsman, whom the King hath wrong'd,
Is my strict fast-I mean my children's looks;
Is near the hate of those love not the King.
Is not Gaunt dead? and doth not Hereford live?
Is not his heir a well-deserving son?
Is not my teeming date drunk up with time?
Is not the King's name twenty thousand names?
Is not to leave't undone, but keep't unknown.
Is nought but bitterness. Now, Roderigo,
Is now leas'd out-I die pronouncing it-
Is numb'ring sands and drinking oceans dry.
Is of a constant, loving, noble nature,
Is of so flood-gate and o'erbearing nature
Is once to be resolved. Exchange me for a goat
Is pale cold cowardice in noble breasts.
Is pointing still, in cleansing them from tears.
Is spied in populous cities.
Is spotless reputation; that away,
Is that she will to virtuous Desdemona
Is that the rebels have consum'd with fire
Is the immediate jewel of their souls.
Is the next way to draw new mischief on.
Is there division 'twixt my lord and Cassio?
Is this the face which fac'd so many follies
Is to become her husband and her father;
Is true of mind and made of no such baseness
Is tupping your white ewe. Arise, arise!
Is wise and virtuous, and his noble queen
Is yet but unfelt thanks, which, more enrich'd,
Is't come to this? Well, well.
It adds more sorrow to my want of joy;
It doth abhor me now I speak the word;
It doth contain a king; King Richard lies
It doth remember me the more of sorrow;
It follows in his thought that I am he.
It is a business of some heat. The galleys
It is a matter of small consequence
It is a sword of Spain, the ice-brook's temper-
It is as sure as you are Roderigo,
It is hypocrisy against the devil.
It is impossible to bear it out.
It is impossible you should see this
It is judgement maim'd and most imperfect,
It is most true; true, I have married her;
It is not honesty in me to speak
It is so too. And have not we affections,
It is such crimson tempest should bedrench
It is the cause. Yet I'll not shed her blood,
It is the green-eyed monster, which doth mock
It is too little, helping him to all;
It issues from the rancour of a villain,
It makes us, or it mars us; think on that,
It must be granted I am Duke of Lancaster.
It must be great that can inherit us
It must needs wither; I'll smell it on the tree.      Kisses her.
It must not be. If Cassio do remain,
It plucks out brains and all. But my Muse labors,
It seems not meet, nor wholesome to my place,
It shall be full of poise and difficult weight,
It shall be his. You shall close prisoner rest,
It shall be still thy true love's recompense.
It speaks against her with the other proofs.
It stops me here; it is too much of joy.
It strikes where it doth love. She wakes.
It was a handkerchief, an antique token
It was my hint to speak- such was the process-
It were a shame to let this land by lease;
It were an honest action to say
It were not for your quiet nor your good,
It will be well.
It will the woefullest division prove
John of Gaunt, afterwards King Henry IV
Join with the present sickness that I have;
Judge me the world, if 'tis not gross in sense
Justice design the victor's chivalry.
Justice to break her sword! One more, one more;
Keep law and form and due proportion,
Keep leets and law-days, and in session sit
Keep yet their hearts attending on themselves,
Keeps Death his court; and there the antic sits,
Keeps good old York there with his men of war?
Killing myself, to die upon a kiss.
King Richard, he is in the mighty hold
Knavery's plain face is never seen till used.               Exit.
Know of your love?
Lament we may, but not revenge thee dead.
Landlord of England art thou now, not King.
Lascivious metres, to whose venom sound
Lay be these-
Lay down my soul at stake. If you think other,
Lay hold upon him. If he do resist,
Lay not your blame on me. If you have lost him,
Lay on my bed my wedding sheets. Remember,
Lay on our royal sword your banish'd hands;
Lead him off.                             Exit Montano, attended.
Lead to the Sagittary the raised search,
Learn him forbearance from so foul a wrong.
Leave procreants alone and shut the door;
Left I his title out.
Left in the conduct of the bold Iago,
Lend me a light. Know we this face or no?
Lend me thy handkerchief.
Lest by his clamor- as it so fell out-
Lest child, child's children, cry against you woe.
Lest you be cropp'd before you come to prime.
Lest you mistake. The heavens are over our heads.
Lest, being like one of heaven, the devils themselves
Lest, being over-proud in sap and blood,
Let heaven and men and devils, let them all,
Let heaven requite it with the serpent's curse!
Let heaven revenge; for I may never lift
Let him confess a truth.
Let him not know't and he's not robb'd at all.
Let housewives make a skillet of my helm,
Let it alone. Come, I'll go in with you.
Let it be hid. Gratiano, keep the house,
Let it command a mirror hither straight,
Let it go all.
Let it not gall your patience, good Iago,
Let loose on me the justice of the state
Let me be thought too busy in my fears-
Let me but bind it hard, within this hour
Let me have speech with you. Come, my dear love,
Let me not name it to you, you chaste stars!
Let me unkiss the oath 'twixt thee and me;
Let not to-morrow then ensue to-day;
Let us be wary, let us hide our loves";
Let's choose executors and talk of wills;
Let's march without the noise of threat'ning drum,
Let's purge this choler without letting blood-
Let's step into the shadow of these trees.
Let's talk of graves, of worms, and epitaphs;
Let's teach ourselves that honorable stop,
Lies in their purses; and whoso empties them,
Lieutenant to the warlike Moor, Othello,
Light on the man! Come hither, gentle mistress.
Light vanity, insatiate cormorant,
Light, I say, light!                                  Exit above.
Light, gentlemen; I'll bind it with my shirt.
Like a false traitor and injurious villain.
Like a full soldier. Let's to the seaside, ho!
Like an unseasonable stormy day
Like perspectives which, rightly gaz'd upon,
Like the base Indian, threw a pearl away
Like to a tenement or pelting farm.
Like to my followers in prosperity,
Limps after in base imitation.
Little are we beholding to your love,
Live in thy shame, but die not shame with thee!
Lo, as at English feasts, so I regreet
Lo, in these windows that let forth thy life
Lo, this is all- nay, yet depart not so;
Long mayst thou live in Richard's seat to sit,
Look in my face.
Look on my wrongs with an indifferent eye.
Look on the tragic loading of this bed;
Look to your house, your daughter, and your bags!
Look to your wife; observe her well with Cassio;
Look what thy soul holds dear, imagine it
Look, here it is.
Look, if my gentle love be not raised up!
Look, where he comes!
Looking awry upon your lord's departure,
Lord Hastings was, for her delivery?
Lord Marshal, command our officers-at-arms
Lords, I protest my soul is full of woe
Love loving not itself, none other can.
Love they to live that love and honour have.
Made a divorce betwixt his queen and him;
Made demonstrable here in Cyprus to him,
Made glorious summer by this sun of York;
Made glory base, and sovereignty a slave,
Made him a man; and though thou livest and breathest,
Made to write "whore" upon? What committed?
Make dust our paper, and with rainy eyes
Make head against my estimation!
Make her amends; she weeps.
Make it a darling like your precious eye;
Make love's quick pants in Desdemona's arms,
Make me, that nothing have, with nothing griev'd,
Make pale our cheek, chasing the royal blood
Make the Moor thank me, love me, and reward me
Makes him speak fondly, like a frantic man;
Makes me with heavy nothing faint and shrink.
Making it light to Cassio. Cassio, I love thee,
Making the hard way sweet and delectable.
Man but a rush against Othello's breast,
Mann'd with three hundred men, as I have heard;
Many a duteous and knee-crooking knave,
Many a time hath banish'd Norfolk fought
March on, and mark King Richard how he looks.
March sadly after; grace my mournings here
Marcus Luccicos, is not he in town?
Mark'd with a blot, damn'd in the book of heaven.
Mark, silent king, the moral of this sport-
Marry, I would not do such a thing for a joint-ring, nor for
Marry, before your ladyship I grant,
Marry, would the word 'farewell' have length'ned hours
Matching thy inference. 'Tis not to make me jealous
May be a precedent and witness good
May be abused? Have you not read, Roderigo,
May be more free.
May deem that you are worthily depos'd.
May draw with you. There's millions now alive
May fall to match you with her country forms,
May fright the hopeful mother at the view,
May happily bring forth. But who comes here?
May hourly trample on their sovereign's head;
May it please you, lords, to grant the commons' suit?
May she give that?
May speak unbonneted to as proud a fortune
May tear a passage through the flinty ribs
May the winds blow till they have waken'd death!
May trumpet to the world. My heart's subdued
May unfold me to him; there stand I in much peril.
Me cause to wail, but teachest me the way
Me rather had my heart might feel your love
Meaning the King at Pomfret. Come, let's go.
Meantime let this defend my loyalty-
Meantime, have patience.
Meantime, this deep disgrace in brotherhood
Measure our confines with such peaceful steps?
Men are but gilded loam or painted clay.
Men do their broken weapons rather use
Men's natures wrangle with inferior things,
Merely in hate, 'gainst any of us an,
Methinks King Richard and myself should meet
Methinks it should be now a huge eclipse
Michael, good night. Tomorrow with your earliest
Might from our quiet confines fright fair peace
Mine honour is my life; both grow in one;
Mine honour lives when his dishonour dies,
Mine's not an idle cause. The Duke himself,
Mock not my senseless conjuration, lords.
Montano and myself being in speech,
Moor are now making the beast with two backs.
Moor, she was chaste; she loved thee, cruel Moor;
More are men's ends mark'd than their lives before.
More direful hap betide that hated wretch
More fell than anguish, hunger, or the sea!
More hath he spent in peace than they in wars.
More miserable by the death of him
More of this matter cannot I report.
More sins for this forgiveness prosper may.
More tedious than the dial eight score times?
More than a spinster; unless the bookish theoric,
More than indeed belong'd to such a trifle,
More than it is, ere foul sin gathering head
More than my dancing soul doth celebrate
More than pertains to feats of broil and battle;
More than their own! What then? how then?
More than thou hast, and with it joy thy life;
More than with parting from my lord the King.
More than your lord's departure weep not-more is not seen;
Most humbly therefore bending to your state,
Most mighty liege, and my companion peers,
Most mighty prince, my Lord Northumberland,
Mount, mount, my soul! thy seat is up on high;
Mounted upon a hot and fiery steed
Much castigation, exercise devout,
Much will be seen in that. In the meantime,
Music do I hear?
Music.
Must I not serve a long apprenticehood
Must be to loathe her. O curse of marriage,
Must bring this monstrous birth to the world's light.
My Desdemona must I leave to thee.
My Lady Grey his wife, Clarence, 'tis she
My Lord of Hereford here, whom you call king,
My Lord of Westminster, be it your charge
My acts, decrees, and statutes, I deny.
My advocation is not now in tune;
My blood begins my safer guides to rule,
My boat sails freely, both with wind and stream.
My body shall make good upon this earth,
My brain I'll prove the female to my soul,
My brother Gloucester, plain well-meaning soul-
My care is loss of care, by old care done;
My dangerous cousin, let your mother in.
My daughter is not for thee; and now, in madness,
My death's sad tale may yet undeaf his ear.
My downright violence and storm of fortunes
My fair rose wither. Yet look up, behold,
My father gave my mother.
My father's goods are all distrain'd and sold;
My figur'd goblets for a dish of wood,
My friend, thy husband, honest, honest Iago.
My gay apparel for an almsman's gown,
My general will forget my love and service.
My gorgeous palace for a hermitage,
My gracious lord-
My gracious sovereign, my most loving liege!
My heart is not confederate with my hand.
My heart this covenant makes, my hand thus seals it.
My house is not a grange.
My husband say that she was false!
My inch of taper will be burnt and done,
My letters say a hundred and seven galleys.
My life and education both do learn me
My life thou shalt command, but not my shame:
My lord is not my lord, nor should I know him
My lord, I say! Othello!
My lord, I see you're moved.
My loving lord, I take my leave of you;
My manors, rents, revenues, I forgo;
My medicine, work! Thus credulous fools are caught,
My mistress here lies murther'd in her bed-
My mother, and my nurse, that bears me yet!
My name be blotted from the book of life,
My native English, now I must forgo;
My oil-dried lamp and time-bewasted light
My parts, my title, and my perfect soul
My sceptre for a palmer's walking staff,
My services, which I have done the signiory,
My soul hath her content so absolute
My soul the father; and these two beget
My speculative and officed instruments,
My speech should fall into such vile success
My spirit and my place have in them power
My stooping duty tenderly shall show.
My subjects for a pair of carved saints,
My thoughts are minutes; and with sighs they jar
My thrice-driven bed of down. I do agnize
My tongue cleave to my roof within my mouth,
My tongue hath but a heavier tale to say.
My very noble and approved good masters,
My waters-on the earth, and not on him.
My wayward husband hath a hundred times
My weav'd-up follies? Gentle Northumberland,
My wife must move for Cassio to her mistress-
My wife to France, from whence set forth in pomp,
My wife! My wife! What wife? I have no wife.
My wretchedness unto a row of pins,
Myself the crying fellow did pursue,
Myself the while to draw the Moor apart,
Myself will straight aboard, and to the state
Myself-a prince by fortune of my birth,
Namely, to appeal each other of high treason.
Nature would not invest herself in such shadowing passion without
Nay, all of you that stand and look upon me
Nay, get thee gone. [Exit Roderigo.] Two things are to be done:
Nay, good lieutenant! God's will, gentlemen!
Nay, if I turn mine eyes upon myself,
Nay, if you stare, we shall hear more anon.
Nay, that's not next. Hark, who is't that knocks?
Ne'er feels retiring ebb, but keeps due on
Near to the King in blood, and near in love
Neglected my sworn duty in that case.
Neglecting an attempt of ease and gain,
Neither my place nor aught I heard of business
Never believe me. Both are my kinsmen.
Never did captive with a freer heart
Never lack'd gold and yet went never gay,
Never pray more; abandon all remorse;
News, friends: our wars are done, the Turks are drown'd.
No deeper wrinkles yet? Hath sorrow struck
No further harm.
No joyful tongue gave him his welcome home;
No more of that. I pray you, in your letters,
No more than he'll unswear.
No word like 'pardon' for kings' mouths so meet.
No, I will speak as liberal as the north;
No, by my faith, Bianca.
No, he must die. Be't so. I hear him coming.
No, heaven forfend! I would not kill thy soul.
No, not that name was given me at the font-
None else of name and noble estimate.
Nonsuits my mediators; for, "Certes," says he,
Nor Gaunt's rebukes, nor England's private wrongs,
Nor I, nor any man that but man is,
Nor all the drowsy syrups of the world,
Nor do I thee. Though I did wish him dead,
Nor for my manhood, honesty, or wisdom,
Nor friends nor foes, to me welcome you are.
Nor from mine own weak merits will I draw
Nor made to court an amorous looking-glass-
Nor never by advised purpose meet
Nor never look upon each other's face;
Nor never write, regreet, nor reconcile
Nor no man's lord; I have no name, no tide-
Nor of them look for such observancy
Nor purposed merit in futurity
Nor scar that whiter skin of hers than snow
Nor set down aught in malice. Then must you speak
Nor shall not be the last; like silly beggars
Nor shall not, whilst 'tis in my custody.
Nor the division of a battle knows
Nor the prevention of poor Bolingbroke
Nor to comply with heat- the young affects
Nor with thy sweets comfort his ravenous sense;
Noses, ears, and lips. Is't possible? Confess? Handkerchief? O
Not Gloucester's death, nor Hereford's banishment,
Not able to endure the sight of day,
Not all the water in the rough rude sea
Not like to me, or any of my kin,
Not only take away, but let your sentence
Not out of absolute lust, though peradventure
Not sick, although I have to do with death,
Not the world's mass of vanity could make me.
Not to affect many proposed matches
Not to be pardoned, am content withal.
Not to outsport discretion.
Not to pick bad from bad, but by bad mend!                Exeunt.
Not with the empty hollowness, but weight.
Not with vain thanks, but with acceptance bounteous,
Note if your lady strain his entertainment
Now are our brows bound with victorious wreaths;
Now by my sceptre's awe I make a vow,
Now by my seat's right royal majesty,
Now comes the sick hour that his surfeit made;
Now do I see 'tis true. Look here, Iago,
Now for the rebels which stand out in Ireland,
Now hath my soul brought forth her prodigy;
Now is this golden crown like a deep well
Now mark me how I will undo myself:
Now prisoner to the palsy, chastise the
Now shall he try his friends that flatter'd him.
Now sir, the sound that tells what hour it is
Now swallow down that lie. For Gloucester's death-
Now will I question Cassio of Bianca,
Now, Bagot, freely speak thy mind-
Now, Thomas Mowbray, do I turn to thee,
Now, afore God-God forbid I say true!-
Now, by mine honour, by my life, my troth,
Now, how dost thou look now? O ill-starr'd wench!
Now, if this suit lay in Bianco's power,
O Desdemon! dead, Desdemon! dead!
O God, which this blood mad'st, revenge his death!
O Iago, the pity of it, Iago!
O Richard! York is too far gone with grief,
O earth, which this blood drink'st, revenge his death!
O heaven, that such companions thou'ldst unfold,
O loyal father of a treacherous son!
O monstrous world! Take note, take note, O world,
O murtherous coxcomb! What should such a fool
O perjured woman! Thou dost stone my heart,
O that I were a mockery king of snow,
O thou, the earthly author of my blood,
O villainy, villainy!
O weary reckoning!
O! O! O!
O'erthrows thy joys, friends, fortune, and thy state;
O, 'tis the spite of hell, the fiend's arch-mock,
O, I were damn'd beneath all depth in hell,
O, balmy breath, that dost almost persuade
O, belike his Majesty hath some intent
O, call back yesterday, bid time return,
O, cursed be the hand that made these holes!
O, full of careful business are his looks!
O, gentlemen, see, see! Dead Henry's wounds
O, had it been a stranger, not my child,
O, had thy grandsire with a prophet's eye
O, he hath kept an evil diet long
O, here it is. Uncle, I must come forth.
O, how it ern'd my heart, when I beheld,
O, if you raise this house against this house,
O, insupportable! O heavy hour!
O, no! the apprehension of the good
O, sit my husband's wrongs on Hereford's spear,
O, then how quickly should this arm of mine,
O- Desdemona-
Obedience bids I should not bid again.
Observ'd his courtship to the common people;
Of Bolingbroke, covering your fearful land
Of Bolingbroke. Their fortunes both are weigh'd.
Of Edward's heirs the murderer shall be.
Of a night-brawler? Give me answer to it.
Of all that I do know. Nor know I aught
Of arts inhibited and out of warrant.
Of being taken by the insolent foe
Of capital treason we arrest you here.
Of civil wounds plough'd up with neighbours' sword;
Of double-fatal yew against thy state;
Of feather'd Cupid seel with wanton dullness
Of fire and water, when their thund'ring shock
Of gold and jewels that I bobb'd from him,
Of good old Abraham! Lords appellants,
Of hair-breadth 'scapes i' the imminent deadly breach,
Of her own clime, complexion, and degree,
Of here and everywhere. Straight satisfy yourself:
Of his bright passage to the occident.
Of holy reverence; who, I cannot learn.
Of human dealings. If I do prove her haggard,
Of law and course of direct session
Of love, of worldly matters and direction,
Of modern seeming do prefer against him.
Of more arrivance.
Of mortal breathing. Seize it, if thou dar'st.
Of moving accidents by flood and field,
Of my whole course of love: what drugs, what charms,
Of noble Richard! Then true noblesse would
Of noble blood in this declining land.
Of one entire and perfect chrysolite,
Of one not easily jealous, but, being wrought,
Of one that loved not wisely but too well;
Of our two cousins' coming into London.
Of pain. Nay, we must think men are not gods,
Of sky-aspiring and ambitious thoughts,
Of some such thing?
Of spirit so still and quiet that her motion
Of such a thing as thou- to fear, not to delight.
Of such as have before endur'd the like.
Of sun and moon, and that the affrighted globe
Of that proud man that did usurp his back?
Of that sweet way I was in to despair!
Of the world's ransom, blessed Mary's Son;
Of this hard world, my ragged prison walls;
Of those physicians that first wounded thee:
Of thy adverse pernicious enemy.
Of very expert and approved allowance;
Of wat'ry Neptune, is now bound in with shame,
Of what degree soever, with your brother.
Of what it is not. Then, thrice-gracious Queen,
Of whom thy father, Prince of Wales, was first.
Of woeful ages long ago betid;
Of years, of country, credit, everything-
Of you, my noble cousin, Lord Aumerle;
Off goes his bonnet to an oyster-wench;
Offend you in my life; never loved Cassio
Old Gaunt, indeed; and gaunt in being old.
Olympus-high, and duck again as low
On Tuesday noon, or night, on Wednesday morn.
On both his knees doth kiss King Richard's hand,
On equal terms to give him chastisement?
On horror's head horrors accumulate;
On most part of their fleet.
On pain to be found false and recreant,
On pain to be found false and recreant,
On some apparent danger seen in him
On some known ground of treachery in him?
On some odd time of his infirmity
On the enchafed flood.
On this side my hand, and on that side thine.
On what condition stands it and wherein?
On yon proud man should take it off again
On, good Roderigo, I'll deserve your pains.               Exeunt.
Once did I lay an ambush for your life,
Once more well met at Cyprus.
Once more, adieu; the rest let sorrow say.            Exeunt
Once more, the more to aggravate the note,
One Michael Cassio, a Florentine
One day too late, I fear me, noble lord,
One flourishing branch of his most royal root,
One is too poor, too weak for my revenge.
One kiss shall stop our mouths, and dumbly part;
One of our souls had wand'red in the air,
One of this kind is Cassio.
One that excels the quirks of blazoning pens,
One vial full of Edward's sacred blood,
Open the door, or I will break it open.
Open their congeal'd mouths and bleed afresh.
Or Cassio him, or each do kill the other,
Or I shall say you are all in all in spleen,
Or I'll be buried in the king's high way,
Or any creeping venom'd thing that lives!
Or any of my brothers of the state,
Or any other ground inhabitable
Or as a moat defensive to a house,
Or bend one wrinkle on my sovereign's face.
Or breed itself so out of circumstances,
Or came it by request, and such fair question
Or chivalrous design of knightly trial;
Or cloy the hungry edge of appetite
Or daring-hardy as to touch the lists,
Or did the letters work upon his blood,
Or do but lift this arm, the best of you
Or else break out in peevish jealousies,
Or else dries up; to be discarded thence!
Or else he never would compare between-
Or else the devil will make a grandsire of you.
Or failing so, yet that I put the Moor
Or feed on nourishing dishes, or keep you warm,
Or feed upon such nice and waterish diet,
Or heard him say- as knaves be such abroad,
Or here, or elsewhere to the furthest verge
Or if it be, 'tis with false sorrow's eye,
Or if of grief, being altogether had,
Or in thy piteous heart plant thou thine ear,
Or keep it as a cistern for foul toads
Or like a cunning instrument cas'd up
Or made a gift of it, my father's eye
Or my divine soul answer it in heaven-
Or my sham'd life in his dishonour lies.
Or not remember what I must be now!
Or put upon you what restraint and grievance
Or scant our former having in despite,
Or seven fair branches springing from one root.
Or shall we play the wantons with our woes
Or something hath the nothing that I grieve;
Or sound so base a parle, my teeth shall tear
Or stand so mammering on. What? Michael Cassio,
Or sue to you to do a peculiar profit
Or that I could forget what I have been!
Or that I do not yet, and ever did,
Or that mine eyes, mine ears, or any sense,
Or those that be not, would they might seem none!
Or voluntary dotage of some mistress,
Or wallow naked in December snow
Or with pale beggar-fear impeach my height
Or with some dram conjured to this effect,
Or worthily, as a good subject should,
Or, being open, put into his hands
Or, by Saint Paul, I'll strike thee to my foot
Or, by the worth of man's eternal soul,
Or, earth, gape open wide and eat him quick,
Or, if misfortune miss the first career,
Or, naked as I am, I will assault thee.
Order the trial, Marshal, and begin.
Othello, leave some officer behind,
Othello, the fortitude of the place is best known to you; and
Our Uncle York Lord Governor of England;
Our bodies are gardens, to the which our wills are gardeners; so
Our bruised arms hung up for monuments;
Our coronation. Lords, prepare yourselves.
Our cousin Hereford and fell Mowbray fight.
Our doctors say this is no month to bleed.
Our dreadful marches to delightful measures.
Our fair appointments may be well perus'd.
Our friends at least.
Our holy lives must win a new world's crown,
Our knees still kneel till to the ground they grow.
Our lands, our lives, and an, are Bolingbroke's.
Our other healthful members even to that sense
Our part therein we banish with yourselves,
Our prayers do out-pray his; then let them have
Our sighs and they shall lodge the summer corn
Our stern alarums chang'd to merry meetings,
Our substitutes at home shall have blank charters;
Our town of Ciceter in Gloucestershire;
Ours of true zeal and deep integrity.
Ourself, and Bushy, Bagot here, and Green,
Out of his scattering and unsure observance.
Out of my sight!
Out of self-bounty be abused. Look to't.
Out of the way, that your converse and business
Out of their best- is not almost a fault
Outran my purpose; and I return'd the rather
Over my thigh, and sigh'd and kiss'd; and then
Over the glittering helmet of my foe!
Pale as thy smock! When we shall meet at compt,
Pale ashes of the house of Lancaster!
Palestine for a touch of his nether lip.
Pardon is all the suit I have in hand.
Pardon me, if you please; if not, I, pleas'd
Part us, Northumberland; I towards the north,
Parted our fellowship- But, hark! a sail.
Past thought! What said she to you? Get more tapers.
Patience awhile, good Cassio. Come, come;
Patience her injury a mockery makes.
Patience is stale, and I am weary of it.
Patience, thou young and rose-lipp'd cherubin,
Peace shall go sleep with Turks and infidels,
Perchance, Iago, I will ne'er go home.
Perhaps he sees it not, or his good nature
Perhaps they had ere this, but that they stay
Perplex'd in the extreme; of one whose hand,
Persuades me I was better when a king;
Persuades me it is otherwise. Howe'er it be,
Pierc'd to the soul with slander's venom'd spear,
Pioners and all, had tasted her sweet body,
Pish! But, sir, be you ruled by me. I have brought you from
Pity may move thee 'pardon' to rehearse.
Plague him with flies. Though that his joy be joy,
Players in your housewifery, and housewives in your beds.
Plays fondly with her tears and smiles in meeting,
Please it your Grace, on to the state affairs;
Pleasure and action make the hours seem short.
Plies Desdemona to repair his fortune,
Plots have I laid, inductions dangerous,
Pluck'd four away. [To BOLINGBROKE] Six frozen winters spent,
Pluck'd from my arms perforce, and given away
Poison or fire, or suffocating streams,
Poor Cassio's smiles, gestures, and light behavior
Poor key-cold figure of a holy king!
Post you to London, and you will find it so;
Potations pottle-deep; and he's to watch.
Pray God the plants thou graft'st may never grow!
Pray God we may make haste, and come too late!
Pray you, let Cassio be received again.
Preferment goes by letter and affection,
Prerogatived are they less than the base;
Presuming on an ague's privilege,
Prevent it, resist it, let it not be so,
Prick'd to't by foolish honesty and love,
Pride, pomp, and circumstance of glorious war!
Prithee, hie thee; he'll come anon-
Prithee, unpin me- have grace and favor in them.
Prizes the virtue that appears in Cassio
Probal to thinking, and indeed the course
Proclaim him in the streets, incense her kinsmen,
Procure me some access.
Procure your sureties for your days of answer.
Prodigious, and untimely brought to light,
Proportionable to the enemy
Proud majesty a subject, state a peasant.
Prove armed soldiers, ere her native king
Provided that my banishment repeal'd
Provokes this deluge most unnatural.
Puff'd his own brother. And can he be angry?
Put into circumscription and confine
Put out the light, and then put out the light.
Put we our quarrel to the will of heaven;
Quick is mine ear to hear of good towards him.
Quick, quick; fear nothing; I'll be at thy elbow.
Quite in the wrong. How do you now, lieutenant?
Rain'd from the wounds of slaughtered Englishmen;
Raise all my kindred. Are they married, think you?
Raz'd out my imprese, leaving me no sign
Receive it from me. I speak not yet of proof.
Receive thy lance; and God defend the right!
Recover breath; tell us how near is danger,
Redeem from broking pawn the blemish'd crown,
Remains the censure of this hellish villain,
Remove your thought; it doth abuse your bosom.
Renowned for their deeds as far from home,
Repair there to me.
Report of fashions in proud Italy,
Rescued the Black Prince, that young Mars of men,
Rest you, whiles I lament King Henry's corse.
Retire thee; go where thou art billeted.
Return with welcome home from banishment.
Revolt our subjects? That we cannot mend;
Rich men look sad, and ruffians dance and leap-
Richard not far from hence hath hid his head.
Richard of Bordeaux, by me hither brought.
Richer than all his tribe; of one whose subdued eyes,
Right noble is thy merit, well I wot.
Robs me of that which not enriches him
Roderigo meant to have sent this damned villain;
Roderigo! When these mutualities so marshal the way, hard at hand
Roderigo? No- yes, sure. O heaven! Roderigo.
Ross. And living too; for now his son is Duke.
Rot half a grain a day! He lies to the heart.
Rough quarries, rocks, and hills whose heads touch heaven,
Rouse him, make after him, poison his delight,
Rouse up thy youthful blood, be valiant, and live.
Rue, even for ruth, here shortly shall be seen,
Run from her guardage to the sooty bosom
Runs posting on in Bolingbroke's proud joy,
Saddle my horse.
Saints in your injuries, devils being offended,
Sans witchcraft could not.
Save back to England, an the world's my way.            Exit
Save bidding farewell to so sweet a guest
Save men's opinions and my living blood
Save our deposed bodies to the ground?
Save that, they say, the wars must make example
Save you your labor. He that lies slain here, Cassio,
Say 'pardon' first, and afterwards 'stand up.'
Say 'pardon,' King; let pity teach thee how.
Say, Scroop, where lies our uncle with his power?
Say, is my kingdom lost? Why, 'twas my care,
Says that this deed is chronicled in hell.
Scoffing his state and grinning at his pomp;
Scorns to unsay what once it hath deliver'd.
See Cassio wipe his beard with.
See suitors following and not look behind;
See, see, King Richard doth himself appear,
Seeing you coming.
Seek you to seize and gripe into your hands
Seems to cast water on the burning bear,
Seen how his son's son should destroy his sons,
Sees and knows more, much more, than he unfolds.
Send for the lady to the Sagittary,
Send for the man, and ask him.
Sent back like Hallowmas or short'st of day.
Sent from my brother Worcester, whencesoever.
Set on thy wife to observe. Leave me, Iago.
Set on towards London. Cousin, is it so?
Setting aside his high blood's royalty,
Shall I obtain it?
Shall I seem crest-fallen in my father's sight?
Shall I so much dishonour my fair stars
Shall I, for love, speak treason to thy face?
Shall be accomplish'd without contradiction.
Shall be extinct with age and endless night;
Shall be your love and labour's recompense.
Shall break into corruption. Thou shalt think
Shall ever medicine thee to that sweet sleep
Shall falter under foul rebellion's arms.
Shall feel this day as sharp to them as thorn.
Shall here inhabit, and this land be call'd
Shall ill become the flower of England's face,
Shall kin with kin and kind with kind confound;
Shall lose me. What! in a town of war,
Shall make their way seem short, as mine hath done
Shall manifest me rightly. Is it they?
Shall ne'er look back, ne'er ebb to humble love,
Shall not regreet our fair dominions,
Shall nothing wrong him. Thus it is, general.
Shall out-tongue his complaints. 'Tis yet to know-
Shall point on me and gild my banishment.
Shall see us rising in our throne, the east,
Shall sink in my rebuke. Give me to know
Shall tender duty make me suffer wrong?
Shall thy old dugs once more a traitor rear?
Shall we call back Northumberland, and send
Shall wound my honour with such feeble wrong
Shapes faults that are not- that your wisdom yet,
Shared dangers with you-
She came adorned hither like sweet May,
She comes more nearer earth than she was wont
She false with Cassio? Did you say with Cassio?
She gave me for my pains a world of sighs;
She has deceived her father, and may thee.
She is abused, stol'n from me and corrupted
She loved me for the dangers I had pass'd,
She loved them most.
She may be honest yet. Tell me but this;
She may, I think, bestow't on any man.
She might lie by an emperor's side, and command him tasks.
She puts her tongue a little in her heart
She says enough; yet she's a simple bawd
She shall undo her credit with the Moor.
She swore, in faith, 'twas strange, 'twas passing strange;
She that could think and ne'er disclose her mind,
She that in wisdom never was so frail
She that so young could give out such a seeming,
She that, being anger'd, her revenge being nigh,
She was a charmer, and could almost read
She was a wight, if ever such wight were-
She was in love, and he she loved proved mad
She was too fond of her most filthy bargain.
She wish'd she had not heard it, yet she wish'd
She'ld come again, and with a greedy ear
She'll find a white that shall her blackness fit.
She's gone. I am abused, and my relief
Shore his old thread in twain; did he live now,
Shorten my days thou canst with sullen sorrow
Should I repent me; but once put out thy light,
Should fear to seize thee. Therefore be double-damn'd;
Should grace the triumph of great Bolingbroke?
Should hazard such a place as his own second
Should hold her loathed and his spirits should hunt
Should nothing privilege him nor partialize
Should run thy head from thy unreverent shoulders.
Should show so heinous, black, obscene a deed!
Should so profane the word, that taught me craft
Should so with civil and uncivil arms
Should yawn at alteration.
Show me thy thought.
Show minutes, times, and hours; but my time
Show nothing but confusion-ey'd awry,
Showing an outward pity-yet you Pilates
Showing, as in a model, our firm estate,
Shows us but this: I am sworn brother, sweet,
Silence that dreadful bell; it frights the isle
Simple, plain Clarence, I do love thee so
Since foes have scope to beat both thee and me.
Since guiltiness I know not; but yet I feel I fear.
Since it is bankrupt of his majesty.
Since last I went to France to fetch his queen:
Since presently your souls must part your bodies-
Since pride must have a fall, and break the neck
Since that our brother dubb'd them gentlewomen,
Since the more fair and crystal is the sky,
Since thou dost seek to kill my name in me,
Since thou hast far to go, bear not along
Since thou, created to be aw'd by man,
Since we can not atone you, we shall see
Since, wedding it, there is such length in grief.
Sir John Norbery, Sir Robert Waterton, and Francis Quoint-
Sir Stephen Scroop, besides a clergyman
Sir Thomas Erpingham, Sir John Ramston,
Sir, for your hurts, myself will be your surgeon.
Sir, she can turn and turn, and yet go on,
Sirrah, get thee to Plashy, to my sister Gloucester;
Six years we banish him, and he shall go.
Sluic'd out his innocent soul through streams of blood;
Small showers last long, but sudden storms are short;
Snakes, in my heart-blood warm'd, that sting my heart!
So I had nothing known. O, now forever
So Judas did to Christ; but he, in twelve,
So as thou liv'st in peace, die free from strife;
So be thy fortune in this royal fight!
So come my soul to bliss, as I speak true;
So dissolute a crew.
So get thee gone; good night. Mine eyes do itch;
So help me every spirit sanctified,
So high above his limits swells the rage
So is it in the music of men's lives.
So it be new, there's no respect how vile-
So justly to your grave ears I'll present
So many blows upon this face of mine
So many greedy looks of young and old
So many miles upon her peaceful bosom,
So may he with more facile question bear it,
So may you by my dull and heavy eye,
So much I challenge that I may profess
So much as of a thought of ill in him.
So much for that. Now for our Irish wars.
So my untruth had not provok'd him to it,
So opposite to marriage that she shunn'd
So shall I clothe me in a forced content
So shall you have a shorter journey to your desires by the means
So speaking as I think, I die, I die.                       Dies.
So sweet was ne'er so fatal. I must weep,
So that, dear lords, if I be left behind,
So to the Moor.
So was I bid report here to the state
So weeping-smiling greet I thee, my earth,
So when this thief, this traitor, Bolingbroke,
So wildly?
So will I turn her virtue into pitch,
So, now I have mine own again, be gone.
So, so.
Soft, by and by. Let me the curtains draw.
Solicit for it straight.
Soliciting his wife. Ay, that's the way;
Some base notorious knave, some scurvy fellow.
Some bloody passion shakes your very frame.
Some busy and insinuating rogue,
Some cogging, cozening slave, to get some office,
Some good man bear him carefully from hence;
Some haunted by the ghosts they have depos'd,
Some horrible conceit. If thou dost love me,
Some of those branches by the Destinies cut;
Some of those seven are dried by nature's course,
Some one way, some another. Do you know
Some poison'd by their wives, some sleeping kill'd,
Some unborn sorrow, ripe in fortune's womb,
Some way of common trade, where subjects' feet
Some wine, boys!
Some wine, ho!
Something of moment then. I will go meet him.
Sometimes intrude not? Who has a breast so pure,
Sometimes to do me service. Nine or ten times
Sons to the King
Speak 'pardon' as 'tis current in our land;
Speak like a true knight, so defend thee heaven!
Speak of me as I am; nothing extenuate,
Speak sweetly, man, although thy looks be sour.
Speak to his gentle hearing kind commends.
Speak truly on thy knighthood and thy oath;
Speak with me, pity me, open the door.
Speak, for my heart is full.
Speak: who began this? On thy love, I charge thee.
Spotted with strawberries in your wife's hand?
Spur post, and get before him to the King,
Spurr'd, gall'd, and tir'd, by jauncing Bolingbroke.
Stabb'd by the self-same hand that made these wounds.
Stand bare and naked, trembling at themselves?
Stand in bold cure.
Stand ranks of people, and they cry, "A sail!"
Standing before the sun of Bolingbroke
Stands for my bounty. But who comes here?
Stands here for God, his sovereign, and himself,
Stay and be secret, and myself will go.
Stay you, good gentlemen. Look you pale, mistress?
Stay, the King hath thrown his warder down.
Stays but the summons of the appelant's trumpet.
Steep'd me in poverty to the very lips,
Steering with due course toward the isle of Rhodes,
Steps in to Cassio and entreats his pause.
Still as the grave. Shall she come in? were't good?
Still question'd me the story of my life
Stirr'd up by God, thus boldly for his king.
Stood heir to the first. Now, sir, be judge yourself
Stood in your action.
Stoop with oppression of their prodigal weight;
Streaming the ensign of the Christian cross
Strike off this score of absence. Sweet Bianca,
Strive to speak big, and clap their female joints
Strives Bolingbroke to be as great as we?
Subdue and poison this young maid's affections?
Subdue him at his peril.
Succeeds in unknown fate.
Such as it is, being tender, raw, and young;
Such neighbour nearness to our sacred blood
Suddenly taken; and hath sent poste-haste
Suggest his soon-believing adversaries,
Suppose the singing birds musicians,
Sure there's some wonder in this handkerchief;
Swallow them up. Now, by yond marble heaven,
Swarming with caterpillars?
Swear by the duty that you owe to God,
Swear thou art honest.
Sweet Desdemona! O sweet mistress, speak!
Sweet York, sweet husband, be not of that mind.
Swell'st thou, proud heart? I'll give thee scope to beat,
Swords out, and tilting one at other's breast,
T'one is my sovereign, whom both my oath
T'undeck the pompous body of a king;
Take Hereford's rights away, and take from Time
Take from my mouth the wish of happy years.
Take heed of perjury; thou are on thy deathbed.
Take hence the rest, and give them burial here.       Exeunt
Take hold on me; for my particular grief
Take honour from me, and my life is done:
Take it, and do't; and leave me for this time.
Take leave, and part; for you must part forthwith.
Take me this work out.
Take special care my greetings be delivered.
Take the correction mildly, kiss the rod,
Take up this mangled matter at the best:
Taken from Paul's to be interred there;
Takes on the point of honour to support
Taste grief, need friends: subjected thus,
Teach thy necessity to reason thus:
Teaching stern murder how to butcher thee.
Tears show their love, but want their remedies.
Tell Bolingbroke, for yon methinks he stands,
Tell her I send to her my kind commends;
Tell me, Othello. I wonder in my soul,
Tell thou the lamentable tale of me,
Tempests themselves, high seas, and howling winds,
Ten thousand bloody crowns of mothers' sons
Tend'ring my person's safety, hath appointed
Tend'ring the precious safety of my prince,
Th' untimely fall of virtuous Lancaster.
Than Bolingbroke to England. Lords, farewell.
Than Bolingbroke's return to England;
Than I am made by my young lord and thee!
Than I can wish to adders, spiders, toads,
Than a delightful measure or a dance;
Than an unstringed viol or a harp;
Than answer my waked wrath!
Than but to know't a little.
Than can my care-tun'd tongue deliver him.
Than for his lineal royalties, and to beg
Than for myself I dare. Let that suffice you.
Than give thy cause away.
Than hope enjoy'd. By this the weary lords
Than in a politic distance.
Than it should do offense to Michael Cassio;
Than keep a corner in the thing I love
Than my poor life must answer.
Than my unpleas'd eye see your courtesy.
Than their bare hands.
Than these thin habits and poor likelihoods
Than they whom youth and ease have taught to glose;
Than this weak arm. Discomfort guides my tongue,
Than thou wast worthy her.
Than to suspicion.
Than twenty times your stop. But, O vain boast!
Than was that young and princely gentleman.
Than what he found himself was apt and true.
Than when he bites, but lanceth not the sore.
Than with your weapons.
Than your good words. But who comes here?
That Cassio's not alive.
That England, that was wont to conquer others,
That Harry Duke of Hereford, Rainold Lord Cobham,
That I being absent and my place supplied,
That I do groan withal. Thou art to die.
That I extend my manners; 'tis my breeding
That I have been disloyal to thy bed
That I have pass'd.
That I have ta'en away this old man's daughter,
That I have worn so many winters out,
That I may save my speech. Do but go after,
That I may speak with you, O, good my lord!
That I may strive to kill it with a groan.
That I was cast. And even but now he spake
That I will shortly send thy soul to heaven,
That I would all my pilgrimage dilate,
That Mowbray hath receiv'd eight thousand nobles
That Norfolk lies. Here do I throw down this,
That Rhodes is dress'd in. If we make thought of this,
That all the treasons for these eighteen years
That any harm should stain so fair a show!
That as it more concerns the Turk than Rhodes,
That bids me be of comfort any more.
That blood already, like the pelican,
That blood should sprinkle me to make me grow.
That brings me food to make misfortune live?
That bucket down and fun of tears am I,
That by your virtuous means I may again
That came awooing with you, and so many a time
That can thy light relume. When I have pluck'd the rose,
That can torment him much and hold him long,
That cannot say as much. This is a subtle whore,
That chamberers have, or for I am declined
That commonly rebels. 'Tis a good hand,
That do demonstrate thinly.
That dogs bark at me as I halt by them-
That done, I will be walking on the works;
That dotes on Cassio, as 'tis the strumpet's plague
That doting on his own obsequious bondage
That dwell in every region of his face;
That e'er did lift up eye.
That e'er our hearts shall make!
That either makes me or fordoes me quite.                 Exeunt.
That errs in ignorance and not in cunning,
That even his stubbornness, his checks, his frowns-
That ever fell upon this cursed earth.
That ever was survey'd by English eye-
That every day under his household roof
That every stride he makes upon my land
That fear to hate; and hate turns one or both
That from this castle's tottered battlements
That gives me this bold show of courtesy.             Kisses her.
That gives them credit.
That grew upon my lips; then laid his leg
That had not God, for some strong purpose, steel'd
That hand shall burn in never-quenching fire
That hast such noble sense of thy friend's wrong!
That hath dismiss'd us from our stewardship;
That have the office opposite to Saint Peter,
That he did plot the Duke of Gloucester's death,
That he had not so trimm'd and dress'd his land
That he hath left part of his grief with me
That he is a traitor, foul and dangerous,
That he is bound to? Wife, thou art a fool.
That he is too familiar with his wife.
That he may bless this bay with his tall ship,
That he would steal away so guilty-like,
That he you hurt is of great fame in Cyprus
That hearing how our plaints and prayers do pierce,
That heaven had made her such a man; she thank'd me,
That hold their honors in a wary distance,
That horse that I so carefully have dress'd!
That horse that thou so often hast bestrid,
That in a Christian climate souls refin'd
That in their sleeps will mutter their affairs;
That is not quickly buzz'd into his ears?
That it engluts and swallows other sorrows,
That it may enter Mowbray's waxen coat
That it may enter butcher Mowbray's breast!
That it may show me what a face I have
That it shall render vengeance and revenge
That jade hath eat bread from my royal hand;
That judgement cannot cure. Which thing to do,
That know the strong'st and surest way to get.
That knows no touch to tune the harmony.
That laid the sentence of dread banishment
That late broke from the Duke of Exeter,
That lie shall lie so heavy on my sword
That lift your vassal hands against my head
That like the sun did make beholders wink?
That livest to make thine honesty a vice!
That look too lofty in our commonwealth:
That made him send Lord Hastings to the Tower,
That make ambition virtue! O, farewell,
That makes me ugly; and besides, the Moor
That makes us wretched by the death of thee
That many have and others must sit there;
That marks thee out for hell. I say thou liest,
That married with Othello. [Raises his voice.] You, mistress,
That may offend the isle. But here they come.
That men must lay their murthers on your neck.
That mercy which true prayer ought to have.
That mettle, that self mould, that fashion'd thee,
That my disports corrupt and taint my business,
That my youth suffer'd. My story being done,
That never set a squadron in the field,
That nightly lie in those unproper beds
That no man enter till my tale be done.
That no man shall have private conference,
That nor my service past nor present sorrows
That not another comfort like to this
That owes two buckets, filling one another;
That paragons description and wild fame,
That passion cannot rule.
That policy may either last so long,
That power I have, discharge; and let them go
That profit's yet to come 'tween me and you.
That quicken even with blowing. O thou weed,
That reacheth from the restful English Court
That rise thus nimbly by a true king's fall.
That rounds the mortal temples of a king
That seem'd in eating him to hold him up,
That sets the word itself against the word!
That shall enmesh them all.
That she loves him, 'tis apt and of great credit.
That she may make, unmake, do what she list,
That she repeals him for her body's lust;
That she reserves it evermore about her
That she was false. O, she was heavenly true!
That she with Cassio hath the act of shame
That so approve the Moor! O, let the heavens
That so neglected you.
That sought at Oxford thy dire overthrow.
That speaks thy words again to do thee harm!
That staggers thus my person. Exton, thy fierce hand
That stands upon your royal grandsire's bones,
That sticks on filthy deeds.
That strew the green lap of the new come spring?
That stroke would prove the worst!
That sun that warms you here shall shine on me,
That swells with silence in the tortur'd soul.
That tell black tidings.
That tempers him to this extremity.
That the bruised heart was pierced through the ear.
That the magnifico is much beloved,
That the probation bear no hinge nor loop
That the sense aches at thee, would thou hadst ne'er been born!
That their designment halts. A noble ship of Venice
That their events can never fall out good.              Exit
That there be women do abuse their husbands
That there he dropp'd it for a special purpose
That they are not the first of fortune's slaves,
That they have let the dangerous enemy
That they may break his foaming courser's back
That thinks men honest that but seem to be so,
That this is from some mistress, some remembrance.
That thou hast practiced on her with foul charms,
That thou respect'st not spilling Edward's blood.
That thou returnest no greeting to thy friends?
That thou wert cause of noble Gloucester's death.
That thou, Aumerle, didst send two of thy men
That trudge betwixt the King and Mistress Shore.
That turn'd your wit the seamy side without,
That vow a long and weary pilgrimage.
That waits upon your Grace?
That was at last out-fac'd by Bolingbroke?
That was my wife's?
That we can call these delicate creatures ours,
That we may arm us to encounter it.
That weaken motion. I'll have't disputed on;
That were the cause of my imprisonment.
That when the searching eye of heaven is hid,
That which his noble ancestors achiev'd with blows.
That which in mean men we entitle patience
That which so often you did bid me steal.
That will confess perfection so could err
That will the King severely prosecute
That with some mixtures powerful o'er the blood,
That with this little arm and this good sword
That words seem'd buried in my sorrow's grave.
That would divorce this terror from my heart';
That would to cinders burn up modesty,
That wounds me with the flatteries of his tongue.
That you in pity may dissolve to dew,
That you should be new-christ'ned in the Tower.
That you unlace your reputation thus,
That, by confessing them, the souls of men
That, from the sense of all civility,
That, to pay grief, must of poor patience borrow.
That, with the little godliness I have,
The Anthropophagi, and men whose heads
The Duke of York, to know what pricks you on
The Duke's in council, and your noble self,
The Earl of Wiltshire is already there.
The King had cut off my head with my brother's.
The King is not himself, but basely led
The King is sickly, weak, and melancholy,
The King reposeth all his confidence in thee.
The King shall be contented. Must he lose
The King shall do it. Must he be depos'd?
The Lord Northumberland, his son young Henry Percy,
The Lords of Ross, Beaumond, and Willoughby,
The Moor already changes with my poison:
The Moor hath kill'd my mistress! Murther, murther!
The Moor is of a free and open nature,
The Moor! I know his trumpet.
The Moor's abused by some most villainous knave,
The Moor, howbeit that I endure him not,
The Senate hath sent about three several quests
The Welshmen are dispers'd; and Salisbury
The accuser and the accused freely speak.
The badges of his grief and patience,
The banish'd Bolingbroke repeals himself,
The bawdy wind, that kisses all it meets,
The bay trees in our country are all wither'd,
The best way is to venge my Gloucester's death.
The better shall my purpose work on him.
The bitter clamour of two eager tongues,
The blood is hot that must be cool'd for this.
The blood of English shall manure the ground,
The bloody office of his timeless end.
The breath of worldly men cannot depose
The business of the state does him offense,
The cares I give I have, though given away;
The caterpillars of the commonwealth,
The cause of his arrival here in arms;
The cheapest of us is ten groats too dear.
The chidden billow seems to pelt the clouds;
The chopping French we do not understand.
The cloak of night being pluck'd from off their backs,
The clogging burden of a guilty soul.
The daintiest last, to make the end most sweet.
The dateless limit of thy dear exile;
The death of Cassio to be undertook
The deputy elected by the Lord.
The desperate tempest hath so bang'd the Turks,
The devil their virtue tempts and they tempt heaven.
The divine Desdemona.
The emptier ever dancing in the air,
The execution of his wit, hands, heart,
The favours of these men. Were they not mine?
The field of Golgotha and dead men's skulls.
The first departing of the King for Ireland.
The flowers fair ladies, and thy steps no more
The fountain from the which my current runs,
The fresh green lap of fair King Richard's land,
The general and his wife are talking of it,
The general were put in mind of it.
The goodness of the night upon you, friends!
The grass whereon thou tread'st the presence strew'd,
The gravity and stillness of your youth
The guilt of conscience take thou for thy labour,
The gutter'd rocks, and congregated sands,
The heads of Brocas and Sir Bennet Seely;
The heads of Salisbury, Spencer, Blunt, and Kent.
The hearts of men, they must perforce have melted,
The heavy accent of thy moving tongue,
The honourable father to my foe,
The hopeless word of 'never to return'
The household of the King.
The ills we do, their ills instruct us so.
The immortal Jove's dread clamors counterfeit,
The importancy of Cyprus to the Turk,
The inclining Desdemona to subdue
The jealous o'er-worn widow, and herself,
The language I have learnt these forty years,
The last leave of thee takes my weeping eye.          Exeunt
The law, with all his might to enforce it on,
The lethargy must have his quiet course.
The lieutenant tonight watches on the court of guard. First, I
The lining of his coffers shall make coats
The lion dying thrusteth forth his paw
The love of wicked men converts to fear;
The man that mocks at it and sets it light.
The manner of their taking may appear
The means that heaven yields must be embrac'd
The meat it feeds on. That cuckold lives in bliss
The messengers of Venice stay the meat.
The mightiest of thy greatest enemies,
The mounting Bolingbroke ascends my throne,
The murderers, EXTON and servants, rush in, armed
The name of king? A God's name, let it go.
The native act and figure of my heart
The next news is, I have to London sent
The nobles they are fled, the commons they are cold
The noise was here. Ha! no more moving?
The noisome weeds which without profit suck
The offer of an hundred thousand crowns
The one as long as the other. 'Tis pity of him.
The one in fear to lose what they enjoy,
The one my duty owes; but my fair name,
The one's for use, the other useth it.
The open ear of youth doth always listen;
The other down, unseen, and full of water.
The other part reserv'd I by consent,
The other to enjoy by rage and war.
The pale-fac'd moon looks bloody on the earth,
The plate, coin, revenues, and moveables,
The pleasure that some fathers feed upon
The precious jewel of thy home return.
The present benefit which I possess;
The pride of kingly sway from out my heart;
The proffered means of succour and redress.
The purchase made, the fruits are to ensue;
The purest treasure mortal times afford
The purple testament of bleeding war;
The rage be his, whilst on the earth I rain
The readiest way to make the wench amends
The resignation of thy state and crown
The revenue whereof shall furnish us
The riches of the ship is come on shore!
The rites for which I love him are bereft me,
The robb'd that smiles steals something from the thief;
The royal banner, and all quality,
The royalties and rights of banish'd Hereford?
The setting sun, and music at the close,
The shadow of my sorrow? Ha! let's see.
The shadow of your face.
The shot of accident nor dart of chance
The slavish motive of recanting fear,
The sly slow hours shall not determinate
The small'st opinion on my least misuse?
The smallest fear or doubt of her revolt;
The soil's fertility from wholesome flowers.
The spirit-stirring drum, the ear-piercing fife,
The state in inclination of the day;
The sun sets weeping in the lowly west,
The sun to course two hundred compasses,
The swelling difference of your settled hate;
The tediousness and process of my travel.
The thing I am by seeming otherwise.
The thoughts of people. She told her, while she kept it,
The time shall not be many hours of age
The time, the place, the torture. O, enforce it!
The town might fall in fright. He, swift of foot,
The town will rise. God's will, lieutenant, hold!
The traitor lives, the true man's put to death.
The treason that my haste forbids me show.
The trust, the office I do hold of you,
The uglier seem the clouds that in it fly.
The unstooping firmness of my upright soul.
The very elements of this warlike isle,
The very head and front of my offending
The very time Aumerle and you did talk.
The waste is no whit lesser than thy land.
The wealthy, curled darlings of our nation,
The weeds which his broad-spreading leaves did shelter,
The which he hath detain'd for lewd employments
The which he promised. Do but encave yourself
The which how far off from the mind of Bolingbroke
The which no balm can cure but his heart-blood
The which will I-not all so much for love
The wind-shaked surge, with high and monstrous mane,
The word is short, but not so short as sweet;
The world hath noted, and your name is great
The worms were hallow'd that did breed the silk,
The worst is death, and death will have his day.
The worst is worldly loss thou canst unfold.
The worst of words.
Their backward course, bearing with frank appearance
Their dearest action in the tented field,
Their fruits of duty. Superfluous branches
Their medicinal gum. Set you down this;
Their mortal natures, letting go safely by
Their purposes toward Cyprus. Signior Montano,
Their watches on unto mine eyes, the outward watch,
Their wives have sense like them; they see and smell
Then all too late comes counsel to be heard
Then am I king'd again; and by and by
Then let them use us well; else let them know,
Then let us take a ceremonious leave
Then murders, treasons, and detested sins,
Then thieves and robbers range abroad unseen
Then treasons make me wish myself a beggar,
Then wherefore dost thou hope he is not shipp'd?
Then with directions to repair to Ravenspurgh.
Then, dear my liege, mine honour let me try;
There are a kind of men so loose of soul,
There comes a fellow crying out for help,
There is my gage, Aumerle, in gage to thine.
There is my gage, the manual seal of death
There is no boot.
There is no virtue like necessity.
There lies the substance; and I thank thee, king,
There lives or dies, true to King Richard's throne,
There shall your swords and lances arbitrate
There shouldst thou find one heinous article,
There's matter in't indeed if he be angry.
There's no man happy; the purest of their wives
There, give it your hobbyhorse. Wheresoever you had it, I'll take
Therefore commend me; let him not come there
Therefore confess thee freely of thy sin,
Therefore my hopes, not surfeited to death,
Therefore no dancing, girl; some other sport.
Therefore no no, for I resign to thee.
Therefore these stops of thine fright me the more;
Therefore we banish you our territories.
Therefore we will disperse ourselves. Farewell.
These accusations, and these grievous crimes
These are portents; but yet I hope, I hope,
These bloody accidents must excuse my manners,
These high wild hills and rough uneven ways
These may be counterfeits; let's think't unsafe
These present wars against the Ottomites.
These sentences, to sugar or to gall,
These signs forerun the death or fall of kings.
These terms of treason doubled down his throat.
These words hereafter thy tormentors be!
These, as I learn, and such like toys as these
They are all but stomachs and we all but food;
They are not ever jealous for the cause,
They belch us. Look you! Cassio and my husband.
They break their faith to God as well as us.
They dare not show their husbands; their best conscience
They do not point on me.
They do suggest at first with heavenly shows,
They eat us hungerly, and when they are full
They have it very oft that have it not.
They might have Ev'd to bear, and he to taste
They shall not live within this world, I swear,
They shall subscribe them for large sums of gold,
They tend the crown, yet still with me they stay.
They that mean virtuously and yet do so,
They will talk of state, for every one doth so
They're close dilations, working from the heart,
Thieves are not judg'd but they are by to hear,
Thieves! Thieves!
Thine eye begins to speak, set thy tongue there;
Thine intellect? Hath he been in thy heart?
Things past redress are now with me past care.        Exeunt
Think I am dead, and that even here thou takest,
Think every bearded fellow that's but yoked
Think not the King did banish thee,
Think that I am unking'd by Bolingbroke,
Think'st thou I'ld make a life of jealousy,
Thinking his prattle to be tedious;
This Lodovico is a proper man.
This accident is not unlike my dream;
This ague fit of fear is over-blown;
This and much more, much more than twice all this,
This arm shall do it, or this life be spent.
This blessed plot, this earth, this realm, this England,
This conduct to convey me to th' Tower.
This day should Clarence closely be mew'd up-
This dead King to the living King I'll bear.
This deadly blot in thy digressing son.
This deed of thine is no more worthy heaven
This earth of majesty, this seat of Mars,
This earth shall have a feeling, and these stones
This feast of battle with mine adversary.
This fest'red joint cut off, the rest rest sound;
This fortress built by Nature for herself
This hand hath made him proud with clapping him.
This happy breed of men, this little world,
This heavy act with heavy heart relate.                   Exeunt.
This is a trick to put me from my suit.
This is his second fit; he had one yesterday.
This is my fault. As for the rest appeal'd,
This is some token from a newer friend.
This is thy work. The object poisons sight;
This land of such dear souls, this dear dear land,
This let alone will all the rest confound.
This likewise is a friend.
This look of thine will hurl my soul from heaven,
This louring tempest of your home-bred hate;
This music mads me. Let it sound no more;
This nurse, this teeming womb of royal kings,
This only is the witchcraft I have used.
This other Eden, demi-paradise,
This precious stone set in the silver sea,
This prison where I live unto the world
This royal throne of kings, this scept'red isle,
This sight would make him do a desperate turn,
This swears he, as he is a prince, is just;
This tongue that runs so roundly in thy head
This very night at one another's heels;
This was her first remembrance from the Moor.
This we prescribe, though no physician;
Thomas of Norfolk, what say'st thou to this?
Those legs that brought me to a part of it!
Thou art a banish'd man, and here art come
Thou art a traitor and a miscreant,
Thou art no soldier.
Thou bloodless remnant of that royal blood!
Thou can'st help time to furrow me with age,
Thou cunning'st pattern of excelling nature,
Thou dost beguile me! Was this face the face
Thou dost deliver more or less than truth,
Thou gavest to Cassio.
Thou goest to Coventry, there to behold
Thou hadst been better have been born a dog
Thou hadst but power over his mortal body,
Thou hast a traitor in thy presence there.
Thou hast no weapon, and perforce must suffer.
Thou kill'st me in his life; giving him breath,
Thou know'st we work by wit and not by witchcraft,
Thou map of honour, thou King Richard's tomb,
Thou said'st- O, it comes o'er my memory,
Thou sheer, immaculate, and silver fountain,
Thou showest the naked pathway to thy life,
Thou teachest me. Minion, your dear lies dead,
Thou, old Adam's likeness, set to dress this garden,
Though Cassio did some little wrong to him,
Though I am bound to every act of duty,
Though I do hate him as I do hell pains,
Though I lost twenty lives. Help! help, ho! help!
Though I perchance am vicious in my guess,
Though I should swear I saw't. 'Tis very much.
Though Richard my life's counsel would not hear,
Though banish'd, yet a trueborn English man.          Exeunt
Though death be poor, it ends a mortal woe.
Though great ones are their object. 'Tis even so;
Though he divide the realm and give thee half
Though he had twinn'd with me, both at a birth,
Though it be fit that Cassio have his place,
Though other things grow fair against the sun,
Though rebels wound thee with their horses' hoofs.
Though some of you, with Pilate, wash your hands,
Though that her jesses were my dear heartstrings,
Though this be all, do not so quickly go;
Though tongues were out of use.
Though you are old enough to be my heir.
Thoughts tending to ambition, they do plot
Thoughts tending to content flatter themselves
Three Judases, each one thrice worse than Judas!
Three lads of Cyprus, noble swelling spirits,
Three parts of that receipt I had for Calais
Threw dust and rubbish on King Richard's head.
Through brazen trumpet send the breath of parley
Through casements darted their desiring eyes
Through the false passage of thy throat, thou liest.
Throw death upon thy sovereign's enemies.
Throw down, my son, the Duke of Norfolk's gage.
Throw your vile guesses in the devil's teeth,
Throwing restraint upon us, or say they strike us,
Thrown such despite and heavy terms upon her,
Thus disorderly thrust into my hands,
Thus give I mine, and thus take I thy heart.
Thus plated in habiliments of war;
Thus play I in one person many people,
Thy bed lust-stain'd shall with lust's blood be spotted.
Thy buried fear. Herein all breathless lies
Thy death-bed is no lesser than thy land
Thy deeds inhuman and unnatural
Thy friends are fled, to wait upon thy foes;
Thy honesty and love doth mince this matter,
Thy kingly doom, and sentence of his pride.
Thy match was mortal to him, and pure grief
Thy overflow of good converts to bad;
Thy sorrow in my breast. Come, ladies, go
Thy state of law is bondslave to the law;
Thy very beadsmen learn to bend their bows
Thy word is current with him for my death,
Thy words are but as thoughts; therefore be bold.
Till Bolingbroke have pardon'd thee. Away, be gone.
Till George be pack'd with posthorse up to heaven.
Till I am even'd with him, wife for wife.
Till I have told this slander of his blood
Till Norfolk be repeal'd-repeal'd he shall be
Till now some nine moons wasted, they have used
Till that a capable and wide revenge
Till that the nature of your fault be known
Till they have fretted us a pair of graves
Till thou give joy; until thou bid me joy
Till thou the lie-giver and that lie do he
Till time lend friends, and friends their helpful swords.
Till twice five summers have enrich'd our fields
Till we assign you to your days of trial
Till you did make him misinterpret me-
To Bolingbroke are we sworn subjects now,
To Bolingbroke.
To Bristow Castle, which they say is held
To Desdemona hath tonight caroused
To Fortune's alms.
To God of heaven, King Richard, and to me.
To God, his sovereign, and to him disloyal,
To God, my King, and my succeeding issue,
To Henry Bolingbroke.
To Italy; and there, at Venice, gave
To Julius Caesar's ill-erected tower,
To Oxford, or where'er these traitors are.
To a dear friend of the good Duke of York's
To all his lands and signories. When he is return'd,
To alter this, for counsel is but vain.
To answer this your charge?
To answer twenty thousand such as you.
To assist my simpleness.
To atone them, for the love I bear to Cassio.
To be a party in this injury.
To be call'd whore? Would it not make one weep?
To be direct and honest is not safe.
To be her men and wear her livery:
To be o'erpow'r'd; and wilt thou, pupil-like,
To be produced- as, if I stay, I shall-
To be sent after me.
To be suspected- framed to make women false.
To bear him easily hence!
To bear the tidings of calamity.
To beggarly divorcement, love him dearly,
To beguile many and be beguiled by one.
To breathe the abundant dolour of the heart.
To breathe this news; yet what I say is true.
To bring him in! Trust me, I could do much-
To bring me to him?
To bring them to that prospect. Damn them then,
To bring you in again.
To bury mine intents, but also to effect
To change blows with thee for our day of doom.
To change the cod's head for the salmon's tail;
To check time broke in a disorder'd string;
To come at traitors' calls, and do them grace.
To come in to the cry without more help.
To counsel Cassio to this parallel course,
To counterfeit oppression of such grief
To crop at once a too long withered flower.
To cure him of this evil- But, hark! What noise?
To dark dishonour's use thou shalt not have.
To deck our soldiers for these Irish wars.
To dim his glory and to stain the track
To do no contrived murther. I lack iniquity
To do the act that might the addition earn
To do what service am I sent for hither?
To draw from her a prayer of earnest heart
To drive away the heavy thought of care?
To dwell in solemn shades of endless night.
To ear the land that hath some hope to grow,
To entertain these fair well-spoken days,
To entreat your Majesty to visit him.
To execute the noble Duke at Calais.
To execute upon him. Sir, this gentleman
To execution and the hand of death.
To faithful service of your Majesty.
To fall in love with what she fear'd to look on!
To fear the foe, since fear oppresseth strength,
To fight with Glendower and his complices.
To find out practices of cunning hell
To find out right with wrong-it may not be;
To follow still the changes of the moon
To foreign passages; and in the end,
To fright the souls of fearful adversaries,
To furnish me with some swift means of death
To get good guard and go along with me.
To get his place, and to plume up my will
To give it her. I did so, and take heed on't;
To grim Necessity; and he and
To grosser issues nor to larger reach
To hang a doubt on; or woe upon thy life!
To hang clogs on them. I have done, my lord.
To have him see me woman'd.
To have me filch it?
To have some conference with your Grace alone.
To have their balmy slumbers waked with strife.
To hear the lamentations of poor Anne,
To help him to his grave immediately!
To him that ever fears he shall be poor.
To his conveyance I assign my wife,
To his most royal person; hither come
To incur a private check. When shall he come?
To insinuate, flatter, bow, and bend my knee.
To keep him safely till his day of trial.
To keep the oath that we administer:
To keep us in false gaze. When we consider
To kill the King at Oxford.
To kiss and talk to. I'll have the work ta'en out,
To kiss in private?
To knot and gender in! Turn thy complexion there,
To lash the rascals naked through the world
To lay aside life-harming heaviness
To lead their business; in which regard,
To leave me but a little to myself.
To leave that latest which concerns him first,
To lengthen out the worst that must be spoken:
To let you know my thoughts.
To lie that way thou goest, not whence thou com'st.
To lift shrewd steel against our golden crown,
To lip a wanton in a secure couch,
To look so poorly and to speak so fair?
To look upon my sometimes royal master's face.
To lose't or give't away were such perdition
To love the Moor.
To make a second fall of cursed man?
To make my end too sudden. Learn, good soul,
To make the base earth proud with kissing it.
To make this bitter to thee.
To manage private and domestic quarrel,
To me for justice and rough chastisement;
To meet at London London's King in woe.
To melt myself away in water drops!
To monarchize, be fear'd, and kill with looks;
To more approved service and desert.
To mourn a mischief that is past and gone
To my inheritance of free descent.
To my unfolding lend your prosperous ear,
To offer service to the Duke of Hereford;
To pay their awful duty to our presence?
To plant unrightful kings, wilt know again,
To please the palate of my appetite,
To plot, contrive, or complot any ill,
To pluck him headlong from the usurped throne.
To point his slow unmoving finger at!
To prey at fortune. Haply, for I am black
To prove him, in defending of myself,
To prove it on thee to the extremest point
To prove myself a loyal gentleman
To prove the Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Mowbray,
To prove, by God's grace and my body's valour,
To put him to ill thinking.
To put my father in impatient thoughts
To raze one title of your honour out.
To reach at victory above my head,
To read a lecture of them? If thou wouldst,
To rid the realm of this pernicious blot?
To rouse his wrongs and chase them to the bay.
To say 'King Richard.' Alack the heavy day
To say my wife is fair, feeds well, loves company,
To scan this thing no further; leave it to time.
To scarlet indignation, and bedew
To search you out.
To see this business. To-morrow next
To see you here before me. O my soul's joy!
To seek out sorrow that dwells every where.
To seel her father's eyes up close as oak-
To send in to your wife. My suit to her
To serve me last, that I may longest keep
To set my brother Clarence and the King
To show the love and duty that I bear you
To show the world I am a gentleman.
To smooth his fault I should have been more mild.
To speak with you; may it please you to come down?
To speak your bosom freely.
To spend with thee. We must obey the time.
To spy into abuses, and oft my jealousy
To stain the temper of my knightly sword.
To stand upon my kingdom once again.
To start my quiet.
To stir against the butchers of his life!
To stop devoted charitable deeds?
To strut before a wanton ambling nymph-
To such exsufflicate and blown surmises,
To suffer with him. Good love, call him back.
To swear him in the justice of his cause.
To take advantage of the absent time,
To take on me to keep and kill thy heart.
To take the safest occasion by the front
To tell it o'er. Go to; well said, well said.
To the Propontic and the Hellespont,
To the Venetian state. Come, bring away.
To the felt absence now I feel a cause.
To the gross clasps of a lascivious Moor-
To the lascivious pleasing of a lute.
To the last article. My lord shall never rest;
To the possession of thy royal hand.
To the very moment that he bade me tell it:
To think our former state a happy dream;
To this extremity. Thy husband knew it all.
To this submission. Yet I well remember
To thread the postern of a small needle's eye.'
To tie thee to my strong correction.
To try me with affliction, had they rain'd
To tyrannous hate! Swell, bosom, with thy fraught,
To upstart unthrifts? Wherefore was I born?
To wake and wage a danger profitless.
To wake our peace, which in our country's cradle
To wash this blood off from my guilty hand.
To watch the fearful bending of thy knee,
To wayward sickliness and age in him.
To whose flint bosom my condemned lord
To whose high will we bound our calm contents.
To win the Moor again? For 'tis most easy
To win the Moor, were't to renounce his baptism,
To win thy after-love I pardon thee.
To worthy danger and deserved death.
To wrong'd Othello's service! Let him command,
To you I am bound for life and education;
To you, my lord, I come-what lord you will-
To you, preferring you before her father,
To your own person. Nay, when I have a suit
To-day, as I came by, I called there-
To-day, to-day, unhappy day, too late,
Too far in years to be a pupil now.
Too good to be so, and too bad to live,
Too hideous to be shown. Thou dost mean something.
Took once a pliant hour, and found good means
Touches me deeper than you can imagine.
Touching the Turkish loss, yet he looks sadly
Towards our assistance we do seize to us
Tradition, form, and ceremonious duty;
Traitors ensteep'd to clog the guiltless keel,
Transform'd and weak'ned? Hath Bolingbroke depos'd
Transported with no worse nor better guard
Treason, foul treason! Villain! traitor! slave!
Turns to the sourest and most deadly hate.
Twice saying 'pardon' doth not pardon twain,
Two kinsmen digg'd their graves with weeping eyes.
Two of the dangerous consorted traitors
Tying her duty, beauty, wit, and fortunes
Uncle, farewell; and, cousin, adieu;
Uncle, for God's sake, speak comfortable words.
Uncle, give me your hands; nay, dry your eyes:
Uncle, you say the Queen is at your house;
Under whose colours he had fought so long.
Unfit for mine own purposes.
Unless a pardon ere I rise or speak.
Unless he do profane, steal, or usurp.
Unless self-charity be sometimes a vice,
Unless to spy my shadow in the sun
Unless you call it good to pity him,
Unless you please to enter in the castle,
Unlikely wonders: how these vain weak nails
Unpeopled offices, untrodden stones?
Unreconciled as yet to heaven and grace,
Until the heavens, envying earth's good hap,
Unto the sovereign mercy of the King;
Up, cousin, up; your heart is up, I know,
Upon a soldier's thigh. I have seen the day
Upon his bad life to make all this good,
Upon his party.
Upon his visage; and that all the walls
Upon malicious bravery, dost thou come
Upon my head and all this famous land.
Upon my soul, a lie, a wicked lie!
Upon remainder of a dear account
Upon some present business of the state
Upon the grassy carpet of this plain.
Upon their spotted souls for this offence!
Upon this overweening traitor's foot
Utter my thoughts? Why, say they are vile and false;
Venetian be not too hard for my wits and all the tribe of hell,
Venice.
Venice. Watch you tonight; for the command, I'll lay't upon you.
Very obedient. Proceed you in your tears.
Villain, thy own hand yields thy death's instrument.
Virtue with valour couched in thine eye.
Vouch with me, heaven, I therefore beg it not
Wanting the manage of unruly jades.
Was it not she and that good man of worship,
Was it not so?
Was my dear friend; what malice was between you?
Was not Gaunt just? and is not Harry true?
Wash me in steep-down gulfs of liquid fire!
Wast born to bear? I was not made a horse;
Watching breeds leanness, leanness is an gaunt.
We all have strongly sworn to give him aid;
We are enforc'd to farm our royal realm;
We are not safe, Clarence; we are not safe.
We cannot all be masters, nor all masters
We have done our course; there's money for your pains.
We have your wrong rebuke. Do not believe
We lack'd your counsel and your help tonight.
We lop away, that bearing boughs may live;
We lose it not so long as we can smile.
We must not now displease him.
We must not think the Turk is so unskillful
We must supplant those rough rug-headed kerns,
We pray with heart and soul, and all beside.
We say that Shore's wife hath a pretty foot,
We see the wind sit sore upon our sails,
We speak no treason, man; we say the King
We then have done you bold and saucy wrongs;
We three are but thyself, and, speaking so,
We three here part that ne'er shall meet again.
We will for Ireland; and 'tis time, I trow.
We'll calm the Duke of Norfolk, you your son.
We'll keep him here. Then what is that to him?
We'll make foul weather with despised tears;
We'll serve him too, and be his fellow so.
Weak men must fall; for heaven still guards the right.
Wear thy good rapier bare, and put it home.
Wear your eye thus, not jealous nor secure.
Wears out his time, much like his master's ass,
Weep thou for me in France, I for thee here;
Welcome to Cyprus.
Welcome, Harry. What, will not this castle yield?
Welcome, my lord. How far off lies your power?
Welcome, my lord. What is the news?
Well are you welcome to the open air.
Well struck in years, fair, and not jealous;
Well, somewhat we must do.-Come, cousin,
Were I but now lord of such hot youth
Were I the Moor, I would not be Iago.
Were as seven vials of his sacred blood,
Were best to do it secretly alone.
Were brass impregnable; and, humour'd thus,
Were enough noble to be upright judge
Were he in favor as in humor alter'd.
Were he my brother, nay, my kingdom's heir,
Were it my cue to fight, I should have known it
Were it to call King Edward's widow sister-
Were then but subjects; being now a subject,
Were they as prime as goats, as hot as monkeys,
Wert thou not brother to great Edward's son,
What Eve, what serpent, hath suggested the
What I can do I will; and more I will
What I have seen and known. You shall observe him,
What I have spoke or thou canst worst devise.
What answer shall I make to this base man?
What art thou? and how comest thou hither,
What bloody business ever.                             They rise.
What cannot be preserved when Fortune takes,
What conjuration, and what mighty magic-
What do you mean by this haunting of me?
What had he done to you?
What he might be: if what he might he is not,
What is become of Bushy? Where is Green?
What is the matter there?
What is the matter with our cousin now?
What is the news?
What is thy sentence, then, but speechless death,
What may you be? Are you of good or evil?
What more remains?
What my tongue speaks, my right drawn sword may prove.
What news from Oxford? Do these justs and triumphs hold?
What place? What time? What form? What likelihood?
What power the Duke of York had levied there;
What reverence he did throw away on slaves,
What ribs of oak, when mountains melt on them,
What say you now? What comfort have we now?
What says King Bolingbroke? Will his Majesty
What shall I do to win my lord again?
What shall I say? To safeguard thine own life
What shall I say? Where's satisfaction?
What shall be said to thee?
What subject can give sentence on his king?
What thou dost know of noble Gloucester's death;
What though I kill'd her husband and her father?
What tidings can you tell me of my lord?
What will ensue hereof there's none can tell;
What would you have me do? I am a subject,
What wound did ever heal but by degrees?
What you will have, I'll give, and willing too;
What you would ask me, that I should deny,
What, are there no posts dispatch'd for Ireland?
What, do you shake at that?
What, keep a week away? seven days and nights?
What, was I born to this, that my sad look
Whate'er you be, I am obedient.
Whatever I shall happen to devise.
Whatever shall become of Michael Cassio,
When Bolingbroke rode on roan Barbary-
When Cassio left my wife. What didst not like?
When I did speak of some distressful stroke
When I do see the very book indeed
When I have spoke of you dispraisingly
When I shall turn the business of my soul
When devils will the blackest sins put on,
When he perceives the envious clouds are bent
When it hath blown his ranks into the air
When my poor heart no measure keeps in grief;
When our sea-walled garden, the whole land,
When remedies are past, the griefs are ended
When she shall lack it.
When such a sacred king should hide his head!
When the tongue's office should be prodigal
When they are gone, then must I count my gains.         Exit
When they change us for others? Is it sport?
When this advice is free I give and honest,
When thou wert king; who, travelling towards York,
When time is broke and no proportion kept!
When time shall call him home from banishment,
When triumph is become an alehouse guest?
When violence assails us.
When we do quicken. Desdemona comes:
When weeping made you break the story off,
When you shall these unlucky deeds relate,
When you yourself did part them.
When your eyes roll so. Why I should fear I know not,
When, being not at your lodging to be found,
Where a malignant and a turban'd Turk
Where all my sins are writ, and that's myself.
Where art thou?                                 Unlocks the door.
Where didst thou see her? O unhappy girl!
Where doth the world thrust forth a vanity-
Where either I must live or bear no life;
Where ever Englishman durst set his foot.
Where fearing dying pays death servile breath.
Where is he? In his bed?
Where is the Earl of Wiltshire? Where is Bagot?
Where it perceives it is but faintly home.
Where it was forged, with my rapier's point.
Where most you owe obedience?
Where no man never comes but that sad dog
Where nothing lives but crosses, cares, and grief.
Where one on his side fights, thousands will fly.
Where rude misgoverned hands from windows' tops
Where shame doth harbour, even in Mowbray's face.
Where shivering cold and sickness pines the clime;
Where virtue is, these are more virtuous.
Where we may apprehend her and the Moor?
Where will doth mutiny with wit's regard.
Where words are scarce, they are seldom spent in vain;
Where'er I wander, boast of this I can:
Where, how, how oft, how long ago, and when
Wherein I mean to touch your love indeed,
Wherein I spake of most disastrous chances,
Wherein of antres vast and deserts idle,
Wherein the toged consuls can propose
Wherein thou liest in reputation sick;
Whereof by parcels she had something heard,
Whereof our uncle Gaunt did stand possess'd.
Whereon, I do beseech thee, grant me this,
Whereto my finger, like a dial's point,
Whereto thy tongue a party-verdict gave.
Whereto we see in all things nature tends-
Whereto, when they shall know what men are rich,
Wherewith I reign'd? I hardly yet have learn'd
Whether I in any just term am affined
Whether a maid so tender, fair, and happy,
Whether our kinsman come to see his friends.
Which God defend a knight should violate!-
Which I first gave her. I saw it in his hand,
Which I have here recover'd from the Moor.
Which I have sworn to weed and pluck away.
Which I with some unwillingness pronounce:
Which art a lion and the king of beasts?
Which art possess'd now to depose thyself.
Which at the first are scarce found to distaste,
Which blood, like sacrificing Abel's, cries,
Which breath'd this poison.
Which done, God take King Edward to his mercy,
Which elder days shall ripen, and confirm
Which else would post until it had return'd
Which even now stands in act, that, for their souls,
Which ever as she could with haste dispatch,
Which false hope lingers in extremity.
Which fear, not reverence, makes thee to except.
Which finds it an enforced pilgrimage.
Which for some reasons I would not have seen.
Which for things true weeps things imaginary.
Which gently laid my knighthood on my shoulder
Which he, young wanton and effeminate boy,
Which heaven hath forbid the Ottomites?
Which his aspiring rider seem'd to know,
Which his hell-govern'd arm hath butchered.
Which his triumphant father's hand had won.
Which honour and allegiance cannot think.
Which in myself I boldly will defend,
Which is indeed but sign. That you shall surely find him,
Which is the bell. So sighs, and tears, and groans,
Which lead directly to the door of truth,
Which live like venom where no venom else
Which made the fault that we cannot correct,
Which makes the silver rivers drown their shores,
Which my thoughts aim not at. Cassio's my worthy friend-
Which ne'er I did remember; to my knowledge,
Which on thy royal party granted once,
Which our profane hours here have thrown down.
Which patience could not pass.
Which renders good for bad, blessings for curses.
Which robs my tongue from breathing native breath?
Which serves as paste and cover to our bones.
Which serves it in the office of a wall,
Which shows like grief itself, but is not so;
Which since we cannot do to make you friends,
Which so rous'd up with boist'rous untun'd drums,
Which then blew bitterly against our faces,
Which then our leisure would not let us hear,
Which they dare swear peculiar. Your case is better.
Which thou owedst yesterday.
Which tired majesty did make thee offer-
Which to maintain, I would allow him odds
Which waste of idle hours hath quite thrown down.
Which with such gentle sorrow he shook off,
Which with usurping steps do trample thee;
Which wrought to his desire.
Which, I protest, hath very much beguil'd
Which, as I think, you know not. Here is a letter
Which, as a grise or step, may help these lovers
Which, but thou hast already, with all my heart
Which, like unruly children, make their sire
Which, look'd on as it is, is nought but shadows
Which, till my infant fortune comes to years,
Which, when I know that boasting is an honor,
While I spare speech, which something now offends me-
While I stand fooling here, his Jack of the clock.
While we return these dukes what we decree.
Whiles kites and buzzards prey at liberty.
Whilst Bolingbroke, through our security,
Whilst I awhile obsequiously lament
Whilst all tongues cried 'God save thee, Bolingbroke!'
Whilst he, from the one side to the other turning,
Whilst my gross flesh sinks downward, here to die.
Whilst others come to make him lose at home.
Whilst that my wretchedness doth bait myself,
Whilst we were wand'ring with the Antipodes,
Whilst you have fed upon my signories,
Whilst you were here o'erwhelmed with your grief-
Whip me such honest knaves. Others there are
Whip me, ye devils,
White-beards have arm'd their thin and hairless scalps
Who all this while hath revell'd in the night,
Who art so lovely fair and smell'st so sweet
Who can control his fate? 'Tis not so now.
Who dotes, yet doubts, suspects, yet strongly loves!
Who gently would dissolve the bands of life,
Who having, by their own importunate suit,
Who hither come engaged by my oath-
Who lately came from the King, commands the contrary.
Who steals my purse steals trash; 'tis something, nothing;
Who strongly hath set footing in this land.
Who they should be that have thus mangled you?
Who was the model of thy father's life.
Who wrought it with the King, and who perform'd
Who's that that rings the bell?- Diablo, ho!
Who, certain of his fate, loves not his wronger;
Who, sitting in the stocks, refuge their shame,
Who, trimm'd in forms and visages of duty,
Who, weak with age, cannot support myself.
Who, when they see the hours ripe on earth,
Whom I with all the office of my heart
Whom conscience and my kindred bids to right.
Whom fair befall in heaven 'mongst happy souls!-
Whom love hath turn'd almost the wrong side out,
Whom passion could not shake? whose solid virtue
Whose breath indeed these hands have newly stopp'd.
Whose compass is no bigger than thy head;
Whose double tongue may with a mortal touch
Whose duty is deceivable and false.
Whose footing here anticipates our thoughts
Whose hollow womb inherits nought but bones.
Whose icy current and compulsive course
Whose manners still our tardy apish nation
Whose messengers are here about my side,
Whose rocky shore beats back the envious siege
Whose state and honour I for aye allow.
Whose ugly and unnatural aspect
Whose want even kills me.
Whose youthful spirit, in me regenerate,
Why I should welcome such a guest as grief,
Why at our justice seem'st thou then to lour?
Why dost thou say King Richard is depos'd?
Why have those banish'd and forbidden legs
Why he hath thus ensnared my soul and body?
Why should hard-favour'd grief be lodg'd in thee,
Why should he call her whore? Who keeps her company?
Why this should be. I therefore vouch again
Why, I have lost him too.
Why, I, in this weak piping time of peace,
Why, cousin, wert thou regent of the world,
Why, foolish boy, the King is left behind,
Why, it contains no king?
Why, that the Moor first gave to Desdemona,
Why, thou silly gentleman!
Why, we have galls, and though we have some grace,
Wife to thy Edward, to thy slaughtered son,
Will I look to't.
Will I make good against thee, arm to arm,
Will but remember me what a deal of world
Will do as if for surety. He holds me well,
Will give him cable.
Will give you satisfaction, you may have't.
Will keep a league till death. Hie thee to France,
Will not go from my mind; I have much to do
Will rain hot vengeance on offenders' heads.
Will shake this island.
Will the hateful commons perform for us,
Will you go along with us?
Will you go on? [Aside.] This is the night
Will you permit that I shall stand condemn'd
Will you, I pray, demand that demi-devil
Wilt thou conceal this dark conspiracy?
Wilt thou not hide the trespass of thine own?
Wipe off the dust that hides our sceptre's gilt,
With 'Thanks, my countrymen, my loving friends';
With Cain go wander thorough shades of night,
With Cassio's suit. Therefore be merry, Cassio,
With Desdemona alone.
With a foul traitor's name stuff I thy throat;
With all good speed at Plashy visit me.
With all swift speed you must away to France.
With all the gracious utterance thou hast
With all the rest of that consorted crew,
With all their powerful friends, are fled to him.
With any strong or vehement importunity;
With as little a web as this will I ensnare as great a fly as
With being nothing.                    [The music plays]
With clog of conscience and sour melancholy,
With cozening hope-he is a flatterer,
With eager feeding food doth choke the feeder;
With eight tall ships, three thousand men of war,
With foul and violent tempest.
With franker spirit. Therefore, as I am bound,
With fresh suspicions? No! To be once in doubt
With fury from his native residence.
With good old folks, and let them tell thee tales
With hard bright steel and hearts harder than steel.
With harsh-resounding trumpets' dreadful bray,
With heads, and not with hands; those whom you curse
With her companion, Grief, must end her life.
With his free duty recommends you thus,
With his weak function. How am I then a villain
With humble and familiar courtesy;
With inky blots and rotten parchment bonds;
With letters of your love to her at large.
With lies well steel'd with weighty arguments;
With meditations lawful?
With mine own breath release all duteous oaths;
With mine own hands I give away my crown,
With mine own tears I wash away my balm,
With mine own tongue deny my sacred state,
With much ado at length have gotten leave
With no less terror than the elements
With nothing shall be pleas'd till he be eas'd
With nothing trembles. At some thing it grieves
With one of an ingraft infirmity.
With painted imagery had said at once
With rival-hating envy, set on you
With scruples, and do set the word itself
With slow but stately pace kept on his course,
With solemn reverence; throw away respect,
With some few private friends upon this coast.
With such accommodation and besort
With such loud reason to the Cyprus wars,
With such things else of quality and respect
With tears drawn from her eyes by your foul wrongs;
With that dear blood which it hath fostered;
With that recognizance and pledge of love
With that which he hath drunk tonight already,
With the Moor, say'st thou? Who would be a father!
With the attainder of his slanderous lips.
With too much riches it confound itself;
With too much urging your pernicious lives,
With unrestrained loose companions,
With what else needful your good Grace shall think
With words of sooth! O that I were as great
Withdraw with us; and let the trumpets sound
Within me grief hath kept a tedious fast;
Within my mouth you have engaol'd my tongue,
Within the earth; and, therein laid-there lies
Within the limits of yon lime and stone;
Within these three days let me hear thee say
Without a prompter. Where will you that I go
Without more certain and more overt test
Without suspicion.
Witness that here Iago doth give up
Witness, you ever-burning lights above,
Witnessing storms to come, woe, and unrest;
Woo'd me to steal it; but she so loves the token,
Wooing poor craftsmen with the craft of smiles
Words, life, and all, old Lancaster hath spent.
Worst in this royal presence may I speak,
Would Desdemona seriously incline;
Would God that any in this noble presence
Would ever have, to incur a general mock,
Would he not stumble? would he not fall down,
Would it not shame thee in so fair a troop
Would not this ill do well? Well, well, I see
Would take no notice, nor build yourself a trouble
Would they make peace? Terrible hell make war
Would they were clyster-pipes for your sake! [Trumpet within.]
Would you have been so brief with him, he would
Would you would bear your fortune like a man!
Would you, the supervisor, grossly gape on?
Writ in remembrance more than things long past.
Write sorrow on the bosom of the earth.
Ye favourites of a king; are we not high?
Ye men of Cyprus, let her have your knees.
Yea, curse his better angel from his side,
Yea, distaff-women manage rusty bills
Yea, look'st thou pale? Let me see the writing.
Yet am I sick for fear. Speak it again.
Yet art thou slain in him. Thou dost consent
Yet best beseeming me to speak the truth.
Yet blessing on his heart that gives it me!
Yet can I not of such tame patience boast
Yet could I bear that too, well, very well;
Yet do I hold it very stuff o' the conscience
Yet for necessity of present life,
Yet fruits that blossom first will first be ripe.
Yet have we some revenge. Let husbands know
Yet he is come.
Yet know-my master, God omnipotent,
Yet seek no shelter to avoid the storm;
Yet she must die, else she'll betray more men.
Yet surely Cassio, I believe, received
Yet throw such changes of vexation on't
Yet wild, the people's hearts brimful of fear,
Yet, I persuade myself, to speak the truth
Yet, if you please to hold him off awhile,
Yield stinging nettles to mine enemies;
Yield up, O love, thy crown and hearted throne
You are my father, for methinks in you
You are welcome, sir, to Cyprus. Goats and monkeys!
You elements that clip us round about,
You have a son, Aumerle, my noble cousin;
You have in manner with your sinful hours
You have known him long; and be you well assured
You have misled a prince, a royal king,
You lose a thousand well-disposed hearts,
You make a leg, and Bolingbroke says ay.
You may my glories and my state depose,
You may partake of any thing we say:
You must to Pomfret, not unto the Tower.
You never shall, so help you truth and God,
You pluck a thousand dangers on your head,
You promis'd, when you parted with the King,
You rise to play, and go to bed to work.
You shall by that perceive him and his means.
You shall not only take the sacrament
You shall yourself read in the bitter letter
You thus employ'd, I will go root away
You urg'd me as a judge; but I had rather
You were best go in.
You will be shamed forever.
You would be satisfied?
You would have bid me argue like a father.
You would have thought the very windows spake,
You'ld have enough.
You'll never meet a more sufficient man.
You, cousin Hereford, upon pain of life,
Your Grace's pardon; and I hope I had it.
Your Highness to assign our trial day.
Your care is gain of care, by new care won.
Your children yet unborn and unbegot,
Your daughter, if you have not given her leave,
Your differences shall all rest under gage
Your dinner, and the generous islanders
Your heart is burst, you have lost half your soul;
Your hearts of sorrow, and your eyes of tears.
Your husband, he is gone to save far off,
Your mother well hath pray'd, and prove you true.
Your mystery, your mystery; nay, dispatch.           Exit Emilia.
Your officer, Iago, can inform you-
Your power and your command is taken off,
Your son-in-law is far more fair than black.
Your special mandate for the state affairs
Your sword upon a woman?
Your trusty and most valiant servitor,
Your uncle York is join'd with Bolingbroke;
[Sings.]   "And let me the canakin clink, clink;
[Sings.]   "King Stephen was and-a worthy peer,
[Sings.]   "Sing all a green willow must be my garland.
[Sings.]   "Sing willow, willow, willow-"
[To AUMERLE] We do debase ourselves, cousin, do we not,
[To Brabantio.] I did not see you; welcome, gentle signior;
[To Lodovico and Gratiano.] What are you there?
[Touching his own head] Thus high at least, although your
a most profane and liberal counselor?
a pleasure, me a sport. There are many events in the womb of time
about my neck-
abused, begin to heave the gorge, disrelish and abhor the Moor;
accident; wherein none can be so determinate as the removing of
affair.
affection? Why, none, why, none- a slipper and subtle knave, a
again to inflame it and to give satiety a fresh appetite,
alehouse. What miserable praise hast thou for her that's foul and
all which the Moor is defective in. Now, for want of these
amazed at it, but go along with me; I will show you such a
an injury, I never found man that knew how to love himself. Ere I
ancient, this is my right hand, and this is my left. I am not
and I retell thee again and again, I hate the Moor. My cause is
and a frail vow betwixt an erring barbarian and a supersubtle
and by them answer.
and discourse fustian with one's own shadow? O thou invisible
and given up himself to the contemplation, mark, and denotement
and hath all those requisites in him that folly and green minds
and it hurts my hand. O, the world hath not a sweeter creature.
and our noble general Othello!                            Exeunt.
and say he lies here or he lies there, were to lie in mine own
and the condition of this country stands, I could heartily wish
and the ingredient is a devil.
and, my fortunes against any lay worth naming, this crack of your
answerable sequestration- put but money in thy purse. These Moors
any more.
are changeable in their wills- fill thy purse with money. The
articles.
be a sect or scion.
be saved before the ancient. Let's have no more of this; let's to
be'st valiant- as they say base men being in love have then a
belie her. Lie with her! 'Zounds, that's fulsome! Handkerchief-
beneficial news, it is the celebration of his nuptial. So much
better stead thee than now. Put money in thy purse; follow thou
broken joint between you and her husband entreat her to splinter;
but it is not in my virtue to amend it.
but, as they say, to hear music the general does not greatly
by midnight.
care.
choice. Now sir, this granted- as it is a most pregnant and
choice. She must have change, she must; therefore put money in
come into no true taste again but by the displanting of Cassio.
come when you are next prepared for.                        Exit.
comes the master and main exercise, the incorporate conclusion.
commander with so slight, so drunken, and so indiscreet an
condition!
condition.
confessions- handkerchief! To confess and be hanged for his labor-
conscionable than in putting on the mere form of civil and humane
continue her love to the Moor- put money in thy purse- nor he his
counterfeit advantages, though true advantage never present
coursers for cousins, and gennets for germans.
courtesy! 'tis so, indeed. Yet again your fingers to your lips?
courtship. You say true; 'tis so, indeed. If such tricks as these
custom of entertainment.
devil wrath: one unperfectness shows me another, to make me
devil!
doing.
drunk now; I can stand well enough, and I speak well enough.
drunk.                                                      Exit.
drunkard! Had I as many mouths as Hydra, such an answer would
enemy in their mouths to steal away their brains! that we should,
ever, I mean purpose, courage, and valor, this night show it; if
exception; but yet, I protest, have dealt most directly in thy
expedition.
fair Desdemona, unless his abode be lingered here by some
fed; and what delight shall she have to look on the devil? When
fellow,
fetch his necessaries ashore. Farewell.
finder out of occasions, that has an eye can stamp and
first, to be hanged, and then to confess. I tremble at it.
food that to him now is as luscious as locusts, shall be to him
foolish?
for drinking. I could well wish courtesy would invent some other
for thee. If the gentlewoman that attends the general's wife be
forthwith. Dismiss your attendant there; look it be done.
fortune as Cassio does? A knave very voluble; no further
fortunes if they check me here.
frankly despise myself.
free, so kind, so apt, so blessed a disposition, she holds it a
general cast us thus early for the love of his Desdemona; who let
general. I may say so in this respect, for that he hath devoted
hanged in compassing thy joy than to be drowned and go without
have been tonight exceedingly well cudgeled; and I think the
have more of this tomorrow. Adieu.
have we a prescription to die when death is our physician.
hearted; thine hath no less reason. Let us be conjunctive in our
her.
him already.
his brains.
history of lust and foul thoughts. They met so near with their
hunts, but one that fills up the cry. My money is almost spent; I
i' the dark.
if the devil bid you. Because we come to do you service and you
importune her help to put you in your place again. She is of so
in the authority of her merit did justly put on the vouch of very
in thee indeed, which I have greater reason to believe now than
industry, why, the power and corrigible authority of this lies in
instant do build on thee a better opinion than ever before. Give
into beasts!
is an idle and most false imposition; oft got without merit and
issue will be, I shall have so much experience for my pains; and
it on him. It is now high supper-time, and the night grows to
it.
itself- a devilish knave! Besides, the knave is handsome, young,
lips that their breaths embraced together. Villainous thoughts,
look after- a pestilent complete knave, and the woman hath found
lord on his behalf and hope all will be well.
lost without deserving. You have lost no reputation at all,
love shall grow stronger than it was before.
loveliness in favor, sympathy in years, manners, and beauties-
make her husband a cuckold to make him a monarch? I should
malice itself?
many, either to have it sterile with idleness or manured with
masters, here's money for you; and the general so likes your
me thy hand, Roderigo. Thou hast taken against me a most just
me. Ha, ha, ha!
means. The jewels you have had from me to deliver to Desdemona
measures of lawn, nor for gowns, petticoats, nor caps, nor any
might quickly make it right.
money in thy purse. It cannot be that Desdemona should long
mood, a punishment more in policy than in malice; even so as one
most apt to play the sir in. Very good. Well kissed! an excellent
music, that he desires you, for love's sake, to make no more
must tell thee this: Desdemona is directly in love with him.
my suit and repent my unlawful solicitation; if not, assure
myself fopped in it.
necessity in his death that you shall think yourself bound to put
needle, an admirable musician. O, she will sing the savageness
night, Iago.
no longer endure it; nor am I yet persuaded to put up in peace
nobility in their natures more than is native to them- list me.
noise with it.
not kissed your three fingers so oft, which now again you are
not without wit and judgement. But, Roderigo, if thou hast that
not yet of his honorable fortune. If you will watch his going
obey.
occasion to anger Cassio, either by speaking too loud, or
of her parts and graces. Confess yourself freely to her;
of our prosperity.
of quality- I hope to be saved.
of speech. Wilt thou do this?
of your new fortunes with this more stubborn and boisterous
offend, for, if it touch not you, it comes near nobody.
officer. Drunk? and speak parrot? and squabble? swagger? swear?
one, you may take him at your pleasure; I will be near to second
our affairs. God forgive us our sins! Gentlemen, let's look to
our business. Do not think, gentlemen, I am drunk: this is my
our natures would conduct us to most preposterous conclusions.
our unbitted lusts; whereof I take this, that you call love, to
our wills. If the balance of our lives had not one scale of
out no work on't.
out of a bear. Of so high and plenteous wit and invention-
own good.
pass.
perdition of the Turkish fleet, every man put himself into
performances are no kin together.
petty exhibition; but, for the whole world- why, who would not
potting. Your Dane, your German, and your swag-bellied Hollander-
praise couldst thou bestow on a deserving woman indeed, one that
praise me?
prating? Let not thy discreet heart think it. Her eye must be
presently a beast! O strange! Every inordinate cup is unblest,
profitably removed, without the which there were no expectation
promise.
provocation.
pudding! Didst thou not see her paddle with the palm of his hand?
puppies. I have professed me thy friend, and I confess me knit to
qualified too, and behold what innovation it makes here. I am
quarrel, but nothing wherefore. O God, that men should put an
rather, as it seems to me now, keepest from me all conveniency
reason to poise another of sensuality, the blood and baseness of
received them and returned me expectations and comforts of sudden
remains is bestial. My reputation, Iago, my reputation!
reputation! I have lost the immortal part of myself, and what
required conveniences, her delicate tenderness will find itself
respect and acquaintance; but I find none.
revenge against him. If thou canst cuckold him, thou dost thyself
same?
saved, and there be souls must not be saved.
seeming, for the better compass of his salt and most hidden loose
seven years, and since I could distinguish betwixt a benefit and
she had been blest, she would never have loved the Moor. Blest
she hath contaminated.
she shall not live. No, my heart is turned to stone; I strike it,
shortly as acerb as the coloquintida. She must change for youth;
so, with no money at all and a little more wit, return again to
soldier than in the scholar.
soldier.
some instruction. It is not words that shakes me thus. Pish!
spirit of wine, if thou hast no name to be known by, let us call
sport and revels his addiction leads him; for besides these
stabbing.
stirring, tell her there's one Cassio entreats her a little favor
stop them all. To be now a sensible man, by and by a fool, and
stope of wine, and here without are a brace of Cyprus gallants
strike at you. Provoke him, that he may; for even out of that
strip you out of your lieutenantry, it had been better you had
sweats not to overthrow your Almain; he gives your Hollander a
tainting his discipline, or from what other course you please,
take it. I must take out the work? A likely piece of work that
tell you what you shall do. Our general's wife is now the
telling her fantastical lies. And will she love him still for
than suppliest me with the least advantage of hope. I will indeed
that if we will plant nettles or sow lettuce, set hyssop and weed
that nose of yours, but not that dog I shall throw it to.
that same handkerchief you gave me even now? I was a fine fool to
that upon certain tidings now arrived, importing the mere
that would fain have a measure to the health of black Othello.
that's brief; and bid "Good morrow, general."
the blood is made dull with the act of sport, there should be,
the other day talking on the sea bank with certain Venetians, and
the virtuous Desdemona to undertake for me. I am desperate of my
the wars; defeat thy favor with an usurped beard. I say, put
thee devil!
thence, which his will fashion to fall out between twelve and
there is full liberty of feasting from this present hour of five
there! This is some minx's token, and I must take out the work?
they speak i' the nose thus?
think we are ruffians, you'll have your daughter covered with a
think you think I love you.
this had not befallen; but since it is as it is, mend it for your
this world with treachery and devise engines for my life.
thither comes the bauble, and, by this hand, she falls me thus
those things. Well, God's above all, and there be souls must be
thou shalt enjoy her- therefore make money. A pox of drowning
thou the next night following enjoy not Desdemona, take me from
though we have there a substitute of most allowed sufficiency,
throat.
thy deserving with cables of perdurable toughness; I could never
thy purse. If thou wilt needs damn thyself, do it a more delicate
thyself! It is clean out of the way. Seek thou rather to be
till the bell have told eleven. Heaven bless the isle of Cyprus
to Desdemona. If she will return me my jewels, I will give over
to Venice.
to her. It was a violent commencement, and thou shalt see an
to him again, and he's yours.
to my wit; do not think it so unwholesome. Ha, ha, ha!
to notify unto her.
tonight with a harlotry, and thither will I go to him. He knows
triumph; some to dance, some to make bonfires, each man to what
twiggen bottle.
unforced position- who stands so eminently in the degree of this
unfortunate in the infirmity, and dare not task my weakness with
unless you repute yourself such a loser. What, man! there are
up thyme, supply it with one gender of herbs or distract it with
us not therefore blame. He hath not yet made wanton the night
venture purgatory for't.
very nature will instruct her in it and compel her to some second
vice in her goodness not to do more than she is requested. This
voice on you. You must therefore be content to slubber the gloss
vomit ere the next pottle can be filled.
was his pleasure should be proclaimed. All offices are open, and
waste. About it.
watch.
way than drowning. Make all the money thou canst. If sanctimony
ways to recover the general again. You are but now cast in his
well used. Exclaim no more against it. And, good lieutenant, I
well. By this hand, I say 'tis very scurvy, and begin to find
what already I have foolishly suffered.
when she is sated with his body, she will find the error of her
which the time shall more favorably minister.
which will be delivered. Traverse, go, provide thy money. We will
will I cause these of Cyprus to mutiny, whose qualification shall
will marry her, out of her own love and flattery, not out of my
will. Come, be a man! Drown thyself? Drown cats and blind
with her, and she is sport for Jove.
with her, lest her body and beauty unprovide my mind again. This
with joy, pleasance, revel, and applause, transform ourselves
with what violence she first loved the Moor, but for bragging and
with you.
withal
woman your wife! She gave it him, and he hath given it his whore.
woman! a sweet woman!
world for your labor, 'tis a wrong in your own world, and you
would beat his offenseless dog to affright an imperious lion. Sue
would change my humanity with a baboon.
would half have corrupted a votarist. You have told me she hath
would say I would drown myself for the love of a guinea hen, I
wound; there is more sense in that than in reputation. Reputation
yet opinion, a sovereign mistress of effects, throws a more safer
you should find it in your chamber and not know who left it
your attempt, and he shall fall between us. Come, stand not
yourself I will seek satisfaction of you.
Exeunt.
Faints.
The trumpets sound. Enter BOLINGBROKE, Duke of Hereford,
A YOUNG DAUGHTER OF CLARENCE (Margaret Plantagenet,
A YOUNG SON OF CLARENCE (Edward, Earl of Warwick)
ABBOT OF WESTMINSTER                  LORD MARSHAL
ABBOT. A woeful pageant have we here beheld.
ABBOT. My lord,
ALL.                                    Dead?
ALL.                   We are very sorry for't.
ALL. Amen.                                              Exeunt
ALL. Excellent well.
ALL. O heavens forfend!
ANNE. Foul devil, for God's sake, hence and trouble us not;
ANNE. Set down, set down your honourable load-
ANNE. Villain, thou knowest nor law of God nor man:
ANNE. What black magician conjures up this fiend
ANNE. What, do you tremble? Are you all afraid?
ANOTHER LORD. I task the earth to the like, forsworn Aumerle;
AUMERLE. 'Farewell.'
AUMERLE. An if I do not, may my hands rot of
AUMERLE. Comfort, my liege, why looks your Grace so pale?
AUMERLE. Comfort, my liege; remember who you are.
AUMERLE. Cousin, farewell; what presence must not know,
AUMERLE. Excepting one, I would he were the best
AUMERLE. Faith, none for me; except the north-east wind,
AUMERLE. Fitzwater, thou art damn'd to hell for this.
AUMERLE. For aught I know, my lord, they do.
AUMERLE. For ever may my knees grow to the earth,
AUMERLE. God save your Grace! I do beseech your Majesty,
AUMERLE. Good mother, be content; it is no more
AUMERLE. He means, my lord, that we are too remiss;
AUMERLE. I brought high Hereford, if you call him so,
AUMERLE. I do beseech you, pardon me; I may not show it.
AUMERLE. I do beseech your Grace to pardon me;
AUMERLE. If God prevent not, I purpose so.
AUMERLE. Is Bushy, Green, and the Earl of Wiltshire dead?
AUMERLE. Madam, I know not, nor I greatly care not.
AUMERLE. My father hath a power; inquire of him,
AUMERLE. My liege, one word.
AUMERLE. My lord, 'tis nothing.
AUMERLE. No, good my lord; let's fight with gentle words
AUMERLE. Northumberland comes back from Bolingbroke.
AUMERLE. Princes, and noble lords,
AUMERLE. Remember, as thou read'st, thy promise pass'd.
AUMERLE. Some honest Christian trust me with a gage
AUMERLE. Stay thy revengeful hand; thou hast no cause to fear.
AUMERLE. Then give me leave that I may turn the key,
AUMERLE. Thou dar'st not, coward, live to see that day.
AUMERLE. Unto my mother's prayers I bend my knee.
AUMERLE. Where is the Duke my father with his power?
AUMERLE. Where is the King?
AUMERLE. Who sets me else? By heaven, I'll throw at all!
AUMERLE. Why then, the champions are prepar'd, and stay
AUMERLE. Yea, at all points; and longs to enter in.
AUMERLE. Yea, my lord. How brooks your Grace the air
AUMERLE. You holy clergymen, is there no plot
BAGOT -     "      "   "     "
BAGOT. And that is the wavering commons; for their love
BAGOT. I fear me, never.                                Exeunt
BAGOT. If judgment lie in them, then so do we,
BAGOT. My Lord Aumerle, I know your daring tongue
BAGOT. No; I will to Ireland to his Majesty.
BAGOT. Then set before my face the Lord Aumerle.
BERKELEY. Mistake me not, my lord; 'tis not my meaning
BERKELEY. My Lord of Hereford, my message is to you.
BIANCA.                          But that you do not love me.
BIANCA.                       Why, I pray you?
BIANCA.                    Why, whose is it?
BIANCA.                  O Cassio, whence came this?
BIANCA. 'Tis very good; I must be circumstanced.            Exeunt.
BIANCA. Alas, he faints! O Cassio, Cassio, Cassio!
BIANCA. An you'll come to supper tonight, you may; an you will not,
BIANCA. And I was going to your lodging, Cassio.
BIANCA. He supp'd at my house; but I therefore shake not.
BIANCA. I am no strumpet, but of life as honest
BIANCA. Leave you! wherefore?
BIANCA. Let the devil and his dam haunt you! What did you mean by
BIANCA. O my dear Cassio, my sweet Cassio! O Cassio, Cassio,
BIANCA. Save you, friend Cassio!
BIANCA. What is the matter, ho? Who is't that cried?
BOLINGBROKE My gracious uncle, let me know my fault;
BOLINGBROKE. An offer, uncle, that we will accept.
BOLINGBROKE. And what said the gallant?
BOLINGBROKE. Are you contented to resign the crown?
BOLINGBROKE. As I was banish'd, I was banish'd Hereford;
BOLINGBROKE. As dissolute as desperate; yet through both
BOLINGBROKE. Bagot, forbear; thou shalt not take it up.
BOLINGBROKE. Bring forth these men.
BOLINGBROKE. But for our trusty brother-in-law and the Abbot,
BOLINGBROKE. Call forth Bagot.
BOLINGBROKE. Can no man tell me of my unthrifty son?
BOLINGBROKE. Carlisle, this is your doom:
BOLINGBROKE. Cousin, stand forth, and look upon that man.
BOLINGBROKE. Evermore thanks, the exchequer of the poor;
BOLINGBROKE. Exton, I thank thee not; for thou hast wrought
BOLINGBROKE. Fetch hither Richard, that in common view
BOLINGBROKE. First-heaven be the record to my speech!
BOLINGBROKE. Go some of you and fetch a looking-glass.
BOLINGBROKE. Go, some of you convey him to the Tower.
BOLINGBROKE. Good aunt, stand up.
BOLINGBROKE. Good aunt, stand up.
BOLINGBROKE. Harry of Hereford, Lancaster, and Derby,
BOLINGBROKE. Have thy desire.
BOLINGBROKE. How far is it, my lord, to Berkeley now?
BOLINGBROKE. How long a time lies in one little word!
BOLINGBROKE. I have too few to take my leave of you,
BOLINGBROKE. I know it, uncle; and oppose not myself
BOLINGBROKE. I pardon him, as God shall pardon me.
BOLINGBROKE. I shall not need transport my words by you;
BOLINGBROKE. I swear.
BOLINGBROKE. I thank thee, gentle Percy; and be sure
BOLINGBROKE. I thought you had been willing to resign.
BOLINGBROKE. In God's name, I'll ascend the regal throne.
BOLINGBROKE. Intended or committed was this fault?
BOLINGBROKE. Joy absent, grief is present for that time.
BOLINGBROKE. Kind uncle York, the latest news we hear
BOLINGBROKE. Look what I speak, my life shall prove it true-
BOLINGBROKE. Lord Marshal, let me kiss my sovereign's hand,
BOLINGBROKE. Lords, you that here are under our arrest,
BOLINGBROKE. Many years of happy days befall
BOLINGBROKE. Mine innocence and Saint George to thrive!
BOLINGBROKE. Mistake not, uncle, further than you should.
BOLINGBROKE. My Lord Northumberland, see them dispatch'd.
BOLINGBROKE. My gracious lord, I come but for mine own.
BOLINGBROKE. My gracious uncle!-
BOLINGBROKE. My heart will sigh when I miscall it so,
BOLINGBROKE. My lord, my answer is-'to Lancaster';
BOLINGBROKE. Name it, fair cousin.
BOLINGBROKE. Nay, rather, every tedious stride I make
BOLINGBROKE. Norfolk, so far as to mine enemy.
BOLINGBROKE. O heinous, strong, and bold conspiracy!
BOLINGBROKE. O, God defend my soul from such deep sin!
BOLINGBROKE. O, let no noble eye profane a tear
BOLINGBROKE. O, who can hold a fire in his hand
BOLINGBROKE. Of much less value is my company
BOLINGBROKE. On Wednesday next we solemnly set down
BOLINGBROKE. Our scene is alt'red from a serious thing,
BOLINGBROKE. Pale trembling coward, there I throw my gage,
BOLINGBROKE. Part of your cares you give me with your crown.
BOLINGBROKE. Rise up, good aunt.
BOLINGBROKE. Royally!
BOLINGBROKE. So far be mine, my most redoubted lord,
BOLINGBROKE. So that by this intelligence we learn
BOLINGBROKE. Stand all apart,
BOLINGBROKE. Strong as a tower in hope, I cry amen.
BOLINGBROKE. Sweet peace conduct his sweet soul to the bosom
BOLINGBROKE. Thanks, gentle uncle. Come, lords, away,
BOLINGBROKE. The shadow of your sorrow hath destroy'd
BOLINGBROKE. Then, England's ground, farewell; sweet soil, adieu;
BOLINGBROKE. These differences shall all rest under gage
BOLINGBROKE. They love not poison that do poison need,
BOLINGBROKE. Thy pains, Fitzwater, shall not be forgot;
BOLINGBROKE. To men in joy; but grief makes one hour ten.
BOLINGBROKE. Urge it no more, my Lord Northumberland.
BOLINGBROKE. We thank thee, gentle Percy, for thy pains;
BOLINGBROKE. Welcome, my lords. I wot your love pursues
BOLINGBROKE. What is the matter, uncle? Speak;
BOLINGBROKE. What means our cousin that he stares and looks
BOLINGBROKE. What says his Majesty?
BOLINGBROKE. What shrill-voic'd suppliant makes this eager cry?
BOLINGBROKE. Whither?
BOLINGBROKE. Why, Bishop, is Norfolk dead?
BOLINGBROKE. With all my heart
BOLINGBROKE. Withdraw yourselves, and leave us here alone.
BOLINGBROKE. Yea, my good lord.
BOLINGBROKE. Yet ask.
BOLINGBROKE. You shall.
BOLINGBROKE. Your will be done. This must my comfort be-
BOLINGBROKE. [Drawing] Villain, I'll make thee safe.
BOLINGBROKE. [To NORTHUMBERLAND] Noble lord,
BRABANTIO.                                    Ay, to me.
BRABANTIO.                         Down with him, thief!
BRABANTIO.                     The worser welcome.
BRABANTIO.                    To prison, till fit time
BRABANTIO.                   Why? Wherefore ask you this?
BRABANTIO.                  God be with you! I have done.
BRABANTIO.                How? The Duke in council?
BRABANTIO.               But thou must needs be sure
BRABANTIO.               I pray you, hear her speak.
BRABANTIO.               Strike on the tinder, ho!
BRABANTIO.              Humbly I thank your Grace.
BRABANTIO.              I'll not have it so.
BRABANTIO.            A maiden never bold,
BRABANTIO. Call up my brother. O, would you had had her!
BRABANTIO. It is too true an evil: gone she is,
BRABANTIO. Look to her, Moor, if thou hast eyes to see;
BRABANTIO. My daughter! O, my daughter!
BRABANTIO. Not I. What are you?
BRABANTIO. Nothing, but this is so.
BRABANTIO. O heaven! How got she out? O treason of the blood!
BRABANTIO. O thou foul thief, where hast thou stow'd my daughter?
BRABANTIO. Pray you, lead on. At every house I'll call;
BRABANTIO. So did I yours. Good your Grace, pardon me:
BRABANTIO. So let the Turk of Cyprus us beguile;
BRABANTIO. This thou shalt answer; I know thee, Roderigo.
BRABANTIO. Thou are a villain.
BRABANTIO. What is the reason of this terrible summons?
BRABANTIO. What profane wretch art thou?
BRABANTIO. What tell'st thou me of robbing? This is Venice;
BRABANTIO. What, have you lost your wits?
BRAKENBURY. I beseech your Graces both to pardon me:
BRAKENBURY. I do beseech your Grace to pardon me, and
BRAKENBURY. What one, my lord?
BRAKENBURY. With this, my lord, myself have naught to do.
BUSHY - favourites of King Richard
BUSHY. 'Tis nothing but conceit, my gracious lady.
BUSHY. At Ely House.
BUSHY. Despair not, madam.
BUSHY. Each substance of a grief hath twenty shadows,
BUSHY. Madam, your Majesty is too much sad.
BUSHY. More welcome is the stroke of death to me
BUSHY. Old John of Gaunt is grievous sick, my lord,
BUSHY. That's as York thrives to beat back Bolingbroke.
BUSHY. The wind sits fair for news to go to Ireland.
BUSHY. Thither will I with you; for little office
BUSHY. Well, we may meet again.
BUSHY. Wherein the King stands generally condemn'd.
BUSHY. Why have you not proclaim'd Northumberland
CAPTAIN of a band of Welshmen         TWO GARDENERS
CAPTAIN. 'Tis thought the King is dead; we will not stay.
CAPTAIN. My Lord of Salisbury, we have stay'd ten days
CARDINAL BOURCHIER, ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY
CARLISLE. As surely as I live, my lord.
CARLISLE. Fear not, my lord; that Power that made you king
CARLISLE. Marry, God forbid!
CARLISLE. My lord, wise men ne'er sit and wail their woes,
CARLISLE. That honourable day shall never be seen.
CARLISLE. The woe's to come; the children yet unborn
CASSIO.                                    To who?
CASSIO.                          Go to, woman!
CASSIO.                          What make you from home?
CASSIO.                         Alas, poor caitiff!
CASSIO.                       Ay, but, lady,
CASSIO.                       I am much bound to you.
CASSIO.                      See for the news.
CASSIO.                    Bounteous madam,
CASSIO.                  Yet, I beseech you,
CASSIO.                 I pray you, sir, go forth,
CASSIO.               I found it in my chamber;
CASSIO.              Pardon me, Bianca.
CASSIO.             Most heathenish and most gross!
CASSIO.             The Duke does greet you, general,
CASSIO.            Ancient, what makes he here?
CASSIO. 'Fore God, an excellent song.
CASSIO. 'Fore God, they have given me a rouse already.
CASSIO. 'Tis but a little way that I can bring you,
CASSIO. 'Tis such another fitchew! marry, a perfumed one.
CASSIO. 'Tis truly so.
CASSIO. 'Zounds! You rogue! You rascal!
CASSIO. A knave teach me my duty! But I'll beat the knave into a
CASSIO. Alas, poor rogue! I think, i'faith, she loves me.
CASSIO. An inviting eye; and yet methinks right modest.
CASSIO. Ay, but, by your leave, not before me; the lieutenant is to
CASSIO. Ay, past all surgery.
CASSIO. Dear general, I never gave you cause.
CASSIO. Do, good my friend.                             Exit Clown.
CASSIO. Dost thou hear, my honest friend?
CASSIO. Dost thou prate, rogue?                   Strikes Roderigo.
CASSIO. Drunk?                                          They fight.
CASSIO. Faith, I intend so.
CASSIO. Faith, I must; she'll rail i' the street else.
CASSIO. For mine own part- no offense to the general, nor any man
CASSIO. Good night, honest Iago.                              Exit.
CASSIO. Ha, ha, ha!
CASSIO. He has had most favorable and happy speed:
CASSIO. He is not yet arrived, nor know I aught
CASSIO. He speaks home, madam. You may relish him more in the
CASSIO. Here comes another troop to seek for you.
CASSIO. Here, here! for heaven's sake, help me!
CASSIO. His bark is stoutly timber'd, and his pilot
CASSIO. How now, my sweet Bianca! how now! how now!
CASSIO. I am maim'd forever. Help, ho! Murther! Murther!
CASSIO. I do attend here on the general;
CASSIO. I do not understand.
CASSIO. I have drunk but one cup tonight, and that was craftily
CASSIO. I have well approved it, sir. I drunk!
CASSIO. I humbly thank you for't. [Exit Iago.] I never knew
CASSIO. I humbly thank your ladyship.
CASSIO. I know not, sweet. I found it in my chamber.
CASSIO. I know not.
CASSIO. I marry her! What? A customer! I prithee, bear some charity
CASSIO. I pray you, pardon me; I cannot speak.
CASSIO. I remember a mass of things, but nothing distinctly; a
CASSIO. I think it freely; and betimes in the morning I will beseech
CASSIO. I think that one of them is hereabout,
CASSIO. I will ask him for my place again; he shall tell me I am a
CASSIO. I will rather sue to be despised than to deceive so good a
CASSIO. I'll do't, but it dislikes me.                        Exit.
CASSIO. Iago hath direction what to do;
CASSIO. Iago? O, I am spoil'd, undone by villains!
CASSIO. Indeed she's a most fresh and delicate creature.
CASSIO. Is your Englishman so expert in his drinking?
CASSIO. It hath pleased the devil drunkenness to give place to the
CASSIO. Let me go, sir, or I'll knock you o'er the mazzard.
CASSIO. Lo, where he comes!
CASSIO. Madam, I'll take my leave.
CASSIO. Madam, my former suit: I do beseech you
CASSIO. Madam, not now. I am very ill at ease,
CASSIO. Masters, play here, I will content your pains; Something
CASSIO. Most fortunately: he hath achieved a maid
CASSIO. My hopes do shape him for the governor.
CASSIO. My leg is cut in two.
CASSIO. No, for I hold him to be unworthy of his place that does
CASSIO. No.
CASSIO. None in the world; nor do I know the man.
CASSIO. Not that I love you not.
CASSIO. Not tonight, good Iago. I have very poor and unhappy brains
CASSIO. O, help!
CASSIO. O, help, ho! Light! A surgeon!
CASSIO. Prithee, come; will you?
CASSIO. Prithee, keep up thy quillets. There's a poor piece of gold
CASSIO. Prithee, say true.
CASSIO. Reputation, reputation, reputation! O, I have lost my
CASSIO. Rub him about the temples.
CASSIO. She is indeed perfection.
CASSIO. She that I spake of, our great captain's captain,
CASSIO. She was here even now; she haunts me in every place. I was
CASSIO. She's a most exquisite lady.
CASSIO. So hangs and lolls and weeps upon me; so hales and pulls
CASSIO. Something from Cyprus, as I may divine;
CASSIO. Thanks, you the valiant of this warlike isle,
CASSIO. That thrust had been mine enemy indeed,
CASSIO. That's one of them.
CASSIO. The great contention of the sea and skies
CASSIO. The worser that you give me the addition
CASSIO. There is besides in Roderigo's letter,
CASSIO. This did I fear, but thought he had no weapon;
CASSIO. This is the monkey's own giving out. She is persuaded I
CASSIO. To the health of our general!
CASSIO. Welcome, Iago; we must to the watch.
CASSIO. Well, I must leave her company.
CASSIO. What's the matter?
CASSIO. What, ho! No watch? No passage? Murther! Murther!
CASSIO. Where are they?
CASSIO. Why, no; the day had broke
CASSIO. Why, this is a more exquisite song than the other.
CASSIO. Why, very well then; you must not think then that I am
CASSIO. You advise me well.
CHRISTOPHER URSWICK, a priest
CLARENCE. Because my name is George.
CLARENCE. By heaven, I think there is no man is secure
CLARENCE. His Majesty,
CLARENCE. I know it pleaseth neither of us well.
CLARENCE. I must perforce. Farewell.
CLARENCE. We know thy charge, Brakenbury, and will
CLARENCE. Yea, Richard, when I know; for I protest
CLOWN. Are these, I pray you, wind instruments?
CLOWN. He's a soldier; and for one to say a soldier lies, is
CLOWN. I dare not say he lies anywhere.
CLOWN. I know not where he lodges, and for me to devise a lodging,
CLOWN. I will catechize the world for him; that is, make questions
CLOWN. If you have any music that may not be heard, to't again;
CLOWN. Marry, sir, by many a wind instrument that I know. But,
CLOWN. No, I hear not your honest friend; I hear you.
CLOWN. O, thereby hangs a tail.
CLOWN. She is stirring, sir. If she will stir hither, I shall seem
CLOWN. Then put up your pipes in your bag, for I'll away.
CLOWN. To do this is within the compass of man's wit, and therefore
CLOWN. To tell you where he lodges, is to tell you where I lie.
CLOWN. Why, masters, have your instruments been in Naples, that
DESDEMONA.                                      My lord?
DESDEMONA.                               No, unpin me here.
DESDEMONA.                         Why, sweet Othello?
DESDEMONA.                       How? unlawfully?
DESDEMONA.                       Nay, heaven doth know.
DESDEMONA.                       No, as I am a Christian.
DESDEMONA.                      Indeed! is't true?
DESDEMONA.                      My noble father,
DESDEMONA.                     Is't possible?
DESDEMONA.                   O good Iago,
DESDEMONA.                   What's the matter?
DESDEMONA.                  My dear Othello!
DESDEMONA.                  No, as I shall be saved.
DESDEMONA.                  No, by this heavenly light!
DESDEMONA.                  The heavens forbid
DESDEMONA.                  They are loves I bear to you.
DESDEMONA.                  Why, this is not a boon;
DESDEMONA.                 A man that all his time
DESDEMONA.                 I pray, talk me of Cassio.
DESDEMONA.                He found it then;
DESDEMONA.               Heaven doth truly know it.
DESDEMONA.               No, by my life and soul!
DESDEMONA.               Well, my good lord.
DESDEMONA.              Why do you speak so faintly?
DESDEMONA.            Alas, she has no speech.
DESDEMONA.            How now, my dear Othello!
DESDEMONA.            I thank you, valiant Cassio.
DESDEMONA.           Alas, thrice-gentle Cassio!
DESDEMONA.           By heaven, you do me wrong.
DESDEMONA.          In troth, I think thou wouldst not.
DESDEMONA.         What horrible fancy's this?
DESDEMONA.      Nor I. I would not there reside
DESDEMONA. 'Tis meet I should be used so, very meet.
DESDEMONA. A guiltless death I die.
DESDEMONA. A most unhappy one. I would do much
DESDEMONA. Alas the day, I never gave him cause!
DESDEMONA. Alas the heavy day! Why do you weep?
DESDEMONA. Alas, he is betray'd, and I undone!
DESDEMONA. Alas, my lord, what may you mean by that?
DESDEMONA. Alas, what ignorant sin have I committed?
DESDEMONA. All's one. Good faith, how foolish are our minds!
DESDEMONA. Am I that name, Iago?
DESDEMONA. And have you mercy too! I never did
DESDEMONA. And what's the news, good cousin Lodovico?
DESDEMONA. And yet I fear you, for you are fatal then
DESDEMONA. Ay, but not yet to die.
DESDEMONA. Ay, my lord.
DESDEMONA. Ay, sooth; so humbled
DESDEMONA. Be thou assured, good Cassio, I will do
DESDEMONA. Believe me, I had rather have lost my purse
DESDEMONA. Beshrew me, if I would do such a wrong
DESDEMONA. But half an hour!
DESDEMONA. But shall't be shortly?
DESDEMONA. But while I say one prayer!
DESDEMONA. By my troth, I am glad on't.
DESDEMONA. Can anything be made of this?
DESDEMONA. Can you inquire him out and be edified by report?
DESDEMONA. Come on, assay- There's one gone to the harbor?
DESDEMONA. Come, come,
DESDEMONA. Cousin, there's fall'n between him and my lord
DESDEMONA. Do not doubt that. Before Emilia here
DESDEMONA. Do you know, sirrah, where Lieutenant Cassio lies?
DESDEMONA. Emilia, come. Be as your fancies teach you;
DESDEMONA. Faith, half asleep.
DESDEMONA. Faith, that's with watching; 'twill away again.
DESDEMONA. Go to! Where lodges he?
DESDEMONA. Good night, good night. Heaven me such uses send,
DESDEMONA. He says he will return incontinent.
DESDEMONA. He speaks well.
DESDEMONA. He will not say so.
DESDEMONA. Heaven bless us!
DESDEMONA. Heaven keep that monster from Othello's mind!
DESDEMONA. Here, my lord.
DESDEMONA. How now, good Cassio! What's the news with you?
DESDEMONA. How now, my lord!
DESDEMONA. I am not merry, but I do beguile
DESDEMONA. I am very sorry that you are not well.
DESDEMONA. I cannot speak of this. Come now, your promise.
DESDEMONA. I cannot tell. Those that do teach young babes
DESDEMONA. I do not know; I am sure I am none such.
DESDEMONA. I do not think there is any such woman.
DESDEMONA. I have heard it said so. O, these men, these men!
DESDEMONA. I have it not about me.
DESDEMONA. I have none. Do not talk to me, Emilia;
DESDEMONA. I have not deserved this.
DESDEMONA. I have sent to bid Cassio come speak with you.
DESDEMONA. I hope my noble lord esteems me honest.
DESDEMONA. I know't: I thank you. You do love my lord:
DESDEMONA. I ne'er saw this before.
DESDEMONA. I prithee, do so.                             Exit Iago.
DESDEMONA. I say, it is not lost.
DESDEMONA. I will go seek him. Cassio, walk hereabout.
DESDEMONA. I will not leave him now till Cassio
DESDEMONA. I will so. What's the matter?
DESDEMONA. I will, my lord.
DESDEMONA. If 'twere no other-
DESDEMONA. If any such there be, heaven pardon him!
DESDEMONA. If you say so, I hope you will not kill me.
DESDEMONA. In sooth, you are to blame.
DESDEMONA. It is my wretched fortune.
DESDEMONA. It is not lost; but what an if it were?
DESDEMONA. It was his bidding; therefore, good Emilia,
DESDEMONA. It yet has felt no age nor known no sorrow.
DESDEMONA. Kill me tomorrow; let me live tonight!
DESDEMONA. Let's meet him and receive him.
DESDEMONA. My lord, what is your will?
DESDEMONA. My lord?
DESDEMONA. My lord?
DESDEMONA. My lord?
DESDEMONA. My lord?
DESDEMONA. My mother had a maid call'd Barbary;
DESDEMONA. Nay, stay and hear me speak.
DESDEMONA. No, faith, my lord.
DESDEMONA. Nobody; I myself. Farewell;
DESDEMONA. O heavy ignorance! Thou praisest the worst best. But what
DESDEMONA. O most lame and impotent conclusion! Do not learn of him,
DESDEMONA. O, banish me, my lord, but kill me not!
DESDEMONA. O, but I fear- How lost you company?
DESDEMONA. O, falsely, falsely murther'd!
DESDEMONA. O, fie upon thee, slanderer!
DESDEMONA. O, heaven forgive us!
DESDEMONA. O, my fear interprets! What, is he dead?
DESDEMONA. O, that's an honest fellow. Do not doubt, Cassio,
DESDEMONA. Seek him, bid him come hither. Tell him I have moved my
DESDEMONA. Shall I deny you? No. Farewell, my lord.
DESDEMONA. Shall't be tonight at supper?
DESDEMONA. So would not I. My love doth so approve him,
DESDEMONA. Such as she says my lord did say I was.
DESDEMONA. Talk you of killing?
DESDEMONA. That I did love the Moor to live with him,
DESDEMONA. That death's unnatural that kills for loving.
DESDEMONA. Then Lord have mercy on me!
DESDEMONA. Then heaven have mercy on me!
DESDEMONA. Then would to God that I had never seen't!
DESDEMONA. These are old fond paradoxes to make fools laugh i' the
DESDEMONA. To do what?
DESDEMONA. To whom, my lord? with whom? how am I false?
DESDEMONA. Tomorrow dinner then?
DESDEMONA. Tonight, my lord?
DESDEMONA. Upon my knees, what doth your speech import?
DESDEMONA. Well praised! How if she be black and witty?
DESDEMONA. Well, do your discretion.                   Exit Cassio.
DESDEMONA. What is your pleasure?
DESDEMONA. What wouldst thou write of me, if thou shouldst
DESDEMONA. What, is he angry?
DESDEMONA. What, my lord?
DESDEMONA. Where should I lose that handkerchief, Emilia?
DESDEMONA. Who is thy lord?
DESDEMONA. Who's there? Othello?
DESDEMONA. Who, he? I think the sun where he was born
DESDEMONA. Why do you speak so startingly and rash?
DESDEMONA. Why then tomorrow night, or Tuesday morn,
DESDEMONA. Why, man?
DESDEMONA. Why, so I can, sir, but I will not now.
DESDEMONA. Why, your lieutenant, Cassio. Good my lord,
DESDEMONA. Will you come to bed, my lord?
DESDEMONA. With who?
DESDEMONA. Worse and worse.
DESDEMONA. Wouldst thou do such a deed for all the world?
DESDEMONA. Wouldst thou do such a deed for all the world?
DESDEMONA. You may, indeed, say so;
DESDEMONA. Your honor is most welcome.
DESDEMONA. Your wife, my lord, your true and loyal wife.
DESDEMONA. [Going.] I will not stay to offend you.
DESDEMONA. [Sings.]
DESDEMONA. [Sings.]
DUCHESS OF GLOUCESTER, widow of Thomas of Woodstock,
DUCHESS OF YORK
DUCHESS OF YORK, mother to King Edward IV
DUCHESS. A god on earth thou art.
DUCHESS. After, Aumerle! Mount thee upon his horse;
DUCHESS. Alack, poor Richard! where rode he the whilst?
DUCHESS. At that sad stop, my lord,
DUCHESS. Come, my old son; I pray God make thee new.      Exeunt
DUCHESS. Dost thou teach pardon pardon to destroy?
DUCHESS. Finds brotherhood in thee no sharper spur?
DUCHESS. Hadst thou groan'd for him
DUCHESS. He shall be none;
DUCHESS. Here comes my son Aumerle.
DUCHESS. I do not sue to stand;
DUCHESS. I will not peace. What is the matter, Aumerle?
DUCHESS. My Lord, you told me you would tell the rest,
DUCHESS. Not yet, I thee beseech.
DUCHESS. O King, believe not this hard-hearted man!
DUCHESS. O happy vantage of a kneeling knee!
DUCHESS. Pleads he in earnest? Look upon his face;
DUCHESS. Strike him, Aumerle. Poor boy, thou art amaz'd.
DUCHESS. Sweet York, be patient. Hear me, gentle liege.
DUCHESS. Thy life answer!
DUCHESS. Welcome, my son. Who are the violets now
DUCHESS. What is the matter, my lord?
DUCHESS. What is the matter?
DUCHESS. What should you fear?
DUCHESS. Where then, alas, may I complain myself?
DUCHESS. Why then, I will. Farewell, old Gaunt.
DUCHESS. Why, York, what is it, my lord?
DUCHESS. Why, York, what wilt thou do?
DUCHESS. Yet one word more- grief boundeth where it falls,
DUCHESS. [Within] A woman, and thine aunt, great King; 'tis I.
DUCHESS. [Within] I What ho, my liege, for God's sake, let me in.
DUCHESS. do not say 'stand up';
DUKE OF AUMERLE, son of the Duke of York
DUKE OF BUCKINGHAM
DUKE OF NORFOLK
DUKE OF SURREY
DUKE.                                Now, what's the business?
DUKE.                          If you please,
DUKE.                        This night.
DUKE.                     Fetch Desdemona hither.
DUKE.                     Why, what's the matter?
DUKE.                  Let it be so.
DUKE.                  To vouch this is no proof,
DUKE. 'Tis certain then for Cyprus.
DUKE. And mine, a hundred and forty.
DUKE. At nine i' the morning here we'll meet again.
DUKE. Be it as you shall privately determine,
DUKE. How say you by this change?
DUKE. I think this tale would win my daughter too.
DUKE. Let me speak like yourself, and lay a sentence
DUKE. Nay, in all confidence, he's not for Rhodes.
DUKE. Nay, it is possible enough to judgement.
DUKE. Say it, Othello.
DUKE. The Turk with a most mighty preparation makes for Cyprus.
DUKE. There is no composition in these news
DUKE. Valiant Othello, we must straight employ you
DUKE. What would you, Desdemona?
DUKE. Whoe'er he be that in this foul proceeding
DUKE. Write from us to him, post-post-haste dispatch.
DUKE. [To Othello.] What in your own part can you say to this?
EARL BERKELEY
EARL OF NORTHUMBERLAND
EARL OF OXFORD
EARL OF SALISBURY
EARL OF SURREY, his son
EARL RIVERS, brother to King Edward's Queen
EDMUND LANGLEY, Duke of York - uncle to the King
EDWARD THE FOURTH
EDWARD, PRINCE OF WALES afterwards KING EDWARD V
ELIZABETH, Queen to King Edward IV
EMILIA.                                    Alas, who knows?
EMILIA.                                   Alas, what cry is that?
EMILIA.                                Never, my lord.
EMILIA.                          I will not.
EMILIA.                          Look, where he comes.
EMILIA.                          My husband?
EMILIA.                          Thou art rash as fire, to say
EMILIA.                         'Twill out, 'twill. I peace?
EMILIA.                        Come, come, you talk.
EMILIA.                        Here's a change indeed!
EMILIA.                        My husband?
EMILIA.                       Dismiss me?
EMILIA.                       Is he not jealous?
EMILIA.                      As I! foh! fie upon thee!
EMILIA.                     He that is yours, sweet lady.
EMILIA.                    O, the more angel she,
EMILIA.                   'Tis neither here nor there.
EMILIA.                   Villainy, villainy, villainy!
EMILIA.                 He went hence but now,
EMILIA.                 Pray you, come in.
EMILIA.               There be some such, no question.
EMILIA.              No, Cassio is not kill'd.
EMILIA.           Nay, lay thee down and roar;
EMILIA.          What did thy song bode, lady?
EMILIA. 'Las, what's the matter? What's the matter, husband?
EMILIA. 'Tis not a year or two shows us a man.
EMILIA. A halter pardon him! And hell gnaw his bones!
EMILIA. A very handsome man.
EMILIA. Alas, Iago, my lord hath so bewhored her,
EMILIA. Alas, good gentleman! alas, good Cassio!
EMILIA. Alas, what does this gentleman conceive?
EMILIA. And your reports have set the murther on.
EMILIA. Ay, ay! O, lay me by my mistress' side.          Exit Iago.
EMILIA. But did you ever tell him she was false?
EMILIA. But jealous souls will not be answer'd so;
EMILIA. But now, my lord.
EMILIA. But then I saw no harm, and then I heard
EMILIA. By heaven, I do not, I do not, gentlemen.
EMILIA. Cassio, my lord, hath kill'd a young Venetian
EMILIA. Disprove this villain, if thou be'st a man.
EMILIA. Do not you chide; I have a thing for you.
EMILIA. Do thy worst;
EMILIA. Fie, fie upon thee, strumpet!
EMILIA. Good gentlemen, let me have leave to speak;
EMILIA. Good madam, do. I warrant it grieves my husband
EMILIA. Good madam, what's the matter with my lord?
EMILIA. Good morrow, good lieutenant. I am sorry
EMILIA. Ha!
EMILIA. Hath she forsook so many noble matches,
EMILIA. He call'd her whore; a beggar in his drink
EMILIA. How goes it now? He looks gentler than he did.
EMILIA. How if fair and foolish?
EMILIA. I am glad I have found this napkin;
EMILIA. I durst, my lord, to wager she is honest,
EMILIA. I have laid those sheets you bade me on the bed.
EMILIA. I know a lady in Venice would have walked barefoot to
EMILIA. I know not, madam.
EMILIA. I will be hang'd, if some eternal villain,
EMILIA. I will not charm my tongue; I am bound to speak.
EMILIA. I would you had never seen him!
EMILIA. If he say so, may his pernicious soul
EMILIA. If't be not for some purpose of import,
EMILIA. In troth, I think I should, and undo't when I had done.
EMILIA. Is not this man jealous?
EMILIA. It's the wind.
EMILIA. Lady, amen.
EMILIA. Madam, here comes my lord.
EMILIA. My husband?
EMILIA. Never, my lord.
EMILIA. Never.
EMILIA. No, faith; she let it drop by negligence,
EMILIA. Nor I neither by this heavenly light; I might do't as well
EMILIA. Nor ever heard, nor ever did suspect.
EMILIA. O heaven! O heavenly powers!
EMILIA. O mistress, villainy hath made mocks with love!
EMILIA. O thou dull Moor! That handkerchief thou speak'st of
EMILIA. O, are you come, Iago? You have done well,
EMILIA. O, fie upon them! Some such squire he was
EMILIA. O, is that all? What will you give me now
EMILIA. O, my good lord, yonder's foul murthers done!
EMILIA. O, who hath done this deed?
EMILIA. Out, and alas! That was my lady's voice.
EMILIA. Pray heaven it be state matters, as you think,
EMILIA. Shall I go fetch your nightgown?
EMILIA. She give it Cassio? No, alas, I found it,
EMILIA. She said so; I must needs report the truth.
EMILIA. That she was false to wedlock?
EMILIA. The world's a huge thing; it is a great price
EMILIA. Thou dost belie her, and thou art a devil.
EMILIA. Thou hast not half that power to do me harm
EMILIA. What handkerchief?
EMILIA. What will you do with't, that you have been so earnest
EMILIA. Why, the wrong is but a wrong i' the world; and having the
EMILIA. Why, with my lord, madam.
EMILIA. Why, would not you?
EMILIA. Yes, a dozen, and as many to the vantage as would store the
EMILIA. You have little cause to say so.
EMILIA. You shall not write my praise.
EMILIA. You told a lie, an odious, damned lie;
EMILIA. [Within.] I do beseech you
EMILIA. [Within.] My lord, my lord! What, ho! my lord, my lord!
EMILIA. [Within.] O, good my lord, I would speak a word with you!
EMILIA. [Within.] What, ho! my lord, my lord!
EXTON. 'Have I no friend?' quoth he. He spake it twice
EXTON. And, speaking it, he wishtly look'd on me,
EXTON. As full of valour as of royal blood.
EXTON. Didst thou not mark the King, what words he spake?
EXTON. From your own mouth, my lord, did I this deed.
EXTON. Great King, within this coffin I present
FIRST GENTLEMAN. My lord, stand back, and let the coffin
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Nothing at all. It is a high-wrought flood;
FIRST HERALD. Harry of Hereford, Lancaster, and Derby,
FIRST MUSICIAN. Ay, marry, are they, sir.
FIRST MUSICIAN. How, sir, how?
FIRST MUSICIAN. We have none such, sir.
FIRST MUSICIAN. Well, sir, we will not.
FIRST MUSICIAN. Whereby hangs a tale, sir?
FIRST OFFICER.        'Tis true, most worthy signior;
FIRST OFFICER. A messenger from the galleys.
FIRST OFFICER. Here is more news.
FIRST SENATOR.                    This cannot be,
FIRST SENATOR.            Indeed they are disproportion'd;
FIRST SENATOR. Adieu, brave Moor, use Desdemona well.
FIRST SENATOR. Ay, so I thought. How many, as you guess?
FIRST SENATOR. But, Othello, speak.
FIRST SENATOR. He's now in Florence.
FIRST SENATOR. Here comes Brabantio and the valiant Moor.
FITZWATER. 'Tis very true; you were in presence then,
FITZWATER. How fondly dost thou spur a forward horse!
FITZWATER. If that thy valour stand on sympathy,
FITZWATER. My lord, I have from Oxford sent to London
FITZWATER. Now, by my soul, I would it were this hour.
FITZWATER. Surrey, thou liest.
FOURTH GENTLEMAN. The town is empty; on the brow o' the sea
GARDENER. Depress'd he is already, and depos'd
GARDENER. Go, bind thou up yon dangling apricocks,
GARDENER. Hold thy peace.
GARDENER. Pardon me, madam; little joy have
GARDENER. Poor Queen, so that thy state might be no worse,
GARDENER. They are; and Bolingbroke
GAUNT. Alas, the part I had in Woodstock's blood
GAUNT. All places that the eye of heaven visits
GAUNT. As near as I could sift him on that argument,
GAUNT. But not a minute, King, that thou canst give:
GAUNT. Call it a travel that thou tak'st for pleasure.
GAUNT. Come, come, my son, I'll bring thee on thy way.
GAUNT. God in thy good cause make thee prosperous!
GAUNT. God's is the quarrel; for God's substitute,
GAUNT. I have, my liege.
GAUNT. I thank my liege that in regard of me
GAUNT. Methinks I am a prophet new inspir'd,
GAUNT. No, misery makes sport to mock itself:
GAUNT. No, no; men living flatter those that die.
GAUNT. Now He that made me knows I see thee ill;
GAUNT. O, Spare me not, my brother Edward's son,
GAUNT. O, but they say the tongues of dying men
GAUNT. O, how that name befits my composition!
GAUNT. O, no! thou diest, though I the sicker be.
GAUNT. O, to what purpose dost thou hoard thy words,
GAUNT. Sister, farewell; I must to Coventry.
GAUNT. The sullen passage of thy weary steps
GAUNT. Things sweet to taste prove in digestion sour.
GAUNT. Thy grief is but thy absence for a time.
GAUNT. To God, the widow's champion and defence.
GAUNT. To be a make-peace shall become my age.
GAUNT. What is six winters? They are quickly gone.
GAUNT. When, Harry, when?
GAUNT. Will the King come, that I may breathe my last
GENTLEMEN. We'll wait upon your lordship.                   Exeunt.
GEORGE, DUKE OF CLARENCE,
GLOUCESTER. Alack, my lord, that fault is none of yours:
GLOUCESTER. As much unto my good Lord Chamberlain!
GLOUCESTER. Even so; an't please your worship, Brakenbury,
GLOUCESTER. Go tread the path that thou shalt ne'er return.
GLOUCESTER. Go you before, and I will follow you.
GLOUCESTER. Her husband, knave! Wouldst thou betray me?
GLOUCESTER. Humbly complaining to her deity
GLOUCESTER. Lady, you know no rules of charity,
GLOUCESTER. Naught to do with Mistress Shore! I tell thee,
GLOUCESTER. No doubt, no doubt; and so shall Clarence too;
GLOUCESTER. Now is the winter of our discontent
GLOUCESTER. Now, by Saint John, that news is bad indeed.
GLOUCESTER. Stay, you that bear the corse, and set it down.
GLOUCESTER. Sweet saint, for charity, be not so curst.
GLOUCESTER. Unmannerd dog! Stand thou, when I command.
GLOUCESTER. Upon what cause?
GLOUCESTER. Villains, set down the corse; or, by Saint Paul,
GLOUCESTER. We are the Queen's abjects and must obey.
GLOUCESTER. Well, your imprisonment shall not be long;
GLOUCESTER. What news abroad?
GLOUCESTER. Why, this it is when men are rul'd by women:
GRATIANO.                                    Fie!
GRATIANO.                             Know him! ay.
GRATIANO.                    Torments will ope your lips.
GRATIANO.                  All that's spoke is marr'd.
GRATIANO.                I am glad to see you.
GRATIANO. 'Tis a strange truth.
GRATIANO. 'Tis some mischance; the cry is very direful.
GRATIANO. Cassio?
GRATIANO. He's gone, but his wife's kill'd.
GRATIANO. Here's one comes in his shirt, with light and weapons.
GRATIANO. I am sorry to find you thus; I have been to seek you.
GRATIANO. Poor Desdemon! I am glad thy father's dead.
GRATIANO. Roderigo!
GRATIANO. The woman falls; sure, he hath kill'd his wife.
GRATIANO. This is Othello's ancient, as I take it.
GRATIANO. What is the matter?
GRATIANO. What is the matter?
GRATIANO. What, of Venice?
GRATIANO. [Within.] If thou attempt it, it will cost thee dear.
GREEN -     "      "   "     "
GREEN. Ah, madam, 'tis too true; and that is worse,
GREEN. Alas, poor Duke! the task he undertakes
GREEN. Besides, our nearness to the King in love
GREEN. God save your Majesty! and well met, gentlemen.
GREEN. Here comes the Duke of York.
GREEN. My comfort is that heaven will take our souls,
GREEN. That he, our hope, might have retir'd his power
GREEN. We have; whereupon the Earl of Worcester
GREEN. Well, I will for refuge straight to Bristow Castle.
GREEN. Well, he is gone; and with him go these thoughts!
GROOM. Hail, royal Prince!
GROOM. I was a poor groom of thy stable, King,
GROOM. So proudly as if he disdain'd the ground.
GROOM. my tongue dares not, that my heart shall say.
Ghosts, of Richard's victims
HASTINGS, a pursuivant
HASTINGS. Good time of day unto my gracious lord!
HASTINGS. He is.
HASTINGS. More pity that the eagles should be mew'd
HASTINGS. No news so bad abroad as this at home:
HASTINGS. With patience, noble lord, as prisoners must;
HENRY PERCY, surnamed HOTSPUR, his son
HENRY, EARL OF RICHMOND, afterwards KING HENRY VII
HENRY, surnamed BOLINGBROKE, Duke of Hereford, son of
HERALD. It is Othello's pleasure, our noble and valiant general,
IAGO.                                           What,
IAGO.                                       What's the matter?
IAGO.                                    Stand you awhile apart,
IAGO.                                    What,
IAGO.                                  No, let me not.
IAGO.                                  Why, go to then.
IAGO.                                 Beshrew him for't!
IAGO.                                I bleed, sir, but not kill'd.
IAGO.                                That's not amiss;
IAGO.                              No, forbear;
IAGO.                             He is much changed.
IAGO.                             Speak within door.
IAGO.                            Nay, this was but his dream.
IAGO.                            What name, fair lady?
IAGO.                          Filth, thou liest!
IAGO.                          How now, my lord?
IAGO.                          I'faith, I fear it has.
IAGO.                          Nay, but he prated
IAGO.                          Villainous whore!
IAGO.                          Yet be content.
IAGO.                          You are- a senator.
IAGO.                         I do beseech you-
IAGO.                         Is't come to this?
IAGO.                         Marry, heaven forbid!
IAGO.                         What handkerchief?
IAGO.                        Alas, alas!
IAGO.                        He's married.
IAGO.                       For Michael Cassio,
IAGO.                       Good sir, be a man;
IAGO.                       I mock you? No, by heaven.
IAGO.                       O murtherous slave! O villain!
IAGO.                      What's the matter, lady?
IAGO.                     Call up her father,
IAGO.                     Did not you hear a cry?
IAGO.                     Do not rise yet.                  Kneels.
IAGO.                     I'll send her to you presently;
IAGO.                     [Aside.] O, you are well tuned now!
IAGO.                    Men should be what they seem;
IAGO.                   O treacherous villains!
IAGO.                  Farewell, for I must leave you.
IAGO.                  Touch me not so near:
IAGO.                 Good my lord, pardon me;
IAGO.                 Well, my good lord, I'll do't.
IAGO.                O grace! O heaven defend me!
IAGO.                Should you do so, my lord,
IAGO.               A good wench; give it me.
IAGO.              With her, on her, what you will.
IAGO.             Not I, for this fair island.
IAGO.        O, beware, my lord, of jealousy!
IAGO. 'Tis but so, I warrant.                      Trumpets within.
IAGO. 'Tis evermore the prologue to his sleep.
IAGO. 'Zounds! Hold your peace.
IAGO. 'Zounds, sir, you are one of those that will not serve God,
IAGO. 'Zounds, sir, you're robb'd! For shame, put on your gown;
IAGO. A thing for me? It is a common thing-
IAGO. After her, after her.
IAGO. And did you see the handkerchief?
IAGO. And for Cassio, let me be his undertaker. You shall hear more
IAGO. And may. But, how? how satisfied, my lord?
IAGO. And so do I too, lieutenant.
IAGO. And this may help to thicken other proofs
IAGO. And what's he then that says I play the villain?
IAGO. And when she speaks, is it not an alarum to love?
IAGO. And you shall be satisfied.                           Exeunt.
IAGO. And, I'll warrant her, full of game.
IAGO. Are your doors lock'd?
IAGO. As I am an honest man, I thought you had received some bodily
IAGO. At my lodging.
IAGO. Awake! What, ho, Brabantio! Thieves! Thieves! Thieves!
IAGO. Ay, if you dare do yourself a profit and a right. He sups
IAGO. Ay, madam.
IAGO. Ay, there's the point, as- to be bold with you-
IAGO. Ay, too gentle.
IAGO. Ay, what of that?
IAGO. Be not acknown on't; I have use for it.
IAGO. Be wise, and get you home.
IAGO. Before me! look where she comes.
IAGO. Blest fig's-end! The wine she drinks is made of grapes. If
IAGO. But for a satisfaction of my thought;
IAGO. By Janus, I think no.
IAGO. Can he be angry? I have seen the cannon,
IAGO. Cassio hath here been set on in the dark
IAGO. Cassio, my lord! No, sure, I cannot think it,
IAGO. Come on, come on. You are pictures out of doors,
IAGO. Come, come, good wine is a good familiar creature, if it be
IAGO. Come, you are too severe a moraler. As the time, the place,
IAGO. Demand me nothing; what you know, you know.
IAGO. Did Michael Cassio, when you woo'd my lady,
IAGO. Did you perceive how he laughed at his vice?
IAGO. Do it not with poison, strangle her in her bed, even the bed
IAGO. Do not weep, do not weep. Alas the day!
IAGO. Do thou meet me presently at the harbor. Come hither. If thou
IAGO. Do you hear, Cassio?
IAGO. Do, with like timorous accent and dire yell
IAGO. Even he, sir. Did you know him?
IAGO. Faith, he tonight hath boarded a land carack;
IAGO. Faith, that he did- I know not what he did.
IAGO. Faith, that was not so well; yet would I knew
IAGO. Faith, the cry goes that you shall marry her.
IAGO. Fie, there is no such man; it is impossible.
IAGO. Gentlemen all, I do suspect this trash
IAGO. Go to, farewell. Do you hear, Roderigo?
IAGO. Go to; say no more.                              Exit Cassio.
IAGO. Good name in man and woman, dear my lord,
IAGO. Ha! I like not that.
IAGO. Hast stol'n it from her?
IAGO. He hath, my lord; but be you well assured,
IAGO. He's that he is. I may not breathe my censure
IAGO. He, he, 'tis he. [A chair brought in.] O, that's well said:
IAGO. Her honor is an essence that's not seen;
IAGO. Here at the door; I pray you, call them in.
IAGO. Here, at thy hand, be bold, and take thy stand.
IAGO. Here, stand behind this bulk; straight will he come.
IAGO. Hold, ho! Lieutenant- sir- Montano- gentlemen-
IAGO. Honest, my lord?
IAGO. How do you, Cassio? O, a chair, a chair!
IAGO. How is't, brother?
IAGO. How now, what do you here alone?
IAGO. How poor are they that have not patience!
IAGO. I am a very villain else.
IAGO. I am about it, but indeed my invention
IAGO. I am glad of it, for now I shall have reason
IAGO. I am one, sir, that comes to tell you your daughter and the
IAGO. I am sorry to hear this.
IAGO. I am very glad to see you, signior;
IAGO. I am your own forever.                                Exeunt.
IAGO. I cry you mercy. Here's Cassio hurt by villains.
IAGO. I did not think he had been acquainted with her.
IAGO. I did.
IAGO. I do not know. Friends all but now, even now,
IAGO. I do not like the office;
IAGO. I grant indeed it hath not appeared, and your suspicion is
IAGO. I have rubb'd this young quat almost to the sense,
IAGO. I know not that; but such a handkerchief-
IAGO. I learned it in England, where indeed they are most potent in
IAGO. I never knew a woman love man so.
IAGO. I once more take my leave.                              Exit.
IAGO. I pray you, be content; 'tis but his humor:
IAGO. I protest, in the sincerity of love and honest kindness.
IAGO. I see this hath a little dash'd your spirits.
IAGO. I see, sir, you are eaten up with passion;
IAGO. I should be wise; for honesty's a fool,
IAGO. I told him what I thought, and told no more
IAGO. I warrant thee. Meet me by and by at the citadel. I must
IAGO. If I can fasten but one cup upon him,
IAGO. If it be that, or any that was hers,
IAGO. If she be black, and thereto have a wit,
IAGO. If thou dost, I shall never love thee after.
IAGO. If you are so fond over her iniquity, give her patent to
IAGO. In faith, too much;
IAGO. Indeed!
IAGO. Is my lord angry?
IAGO. Is't possible, my lord?
IAGO. Is't possible?
IAGO. It is Brabantio. General, be advised,
IAGO. It is merely a lust of the blood and a permission of the
IAGO. It were a tedious difficulty, I think,
IAGO. It's true, good lieutenant.
IAGO. Kill men i' the dark! Where be these bloody thieves?
IAGO. Kind gentlemen, let's go see poor Cassio dress'd.
IAGO. Lay thy finger thus, and let thy soul be instructed. Mark me
IAGO. Lechery, by this hand; an index and obscure prologue to the
IAGO. Lend me a garter. So. O, for a chair,
IAGO. Lie-
IAGO. Lives, sir.
IAGO. Long live she so! and long live you to think so!
IAGO. Marry, heaven forbid!
IAGO. Marry, to- Come, captain, will you go?
IAGO. My friend is dead, 'tis done at your request;
IAGO. My lord is fall'n into an epilepsy.
IAGO. My lord, for aught I know.
IAGO. My lord, you know I love you.
IAGO. My noble lord-
IAGO. My noble lord-
IAGO. Nay, but be wise; yet we see nothing done;
IAGO. Nay, it is true, or else I am a Turk:
IAGO. Nay, that's not your way.
IAGO. Nay, you must forget that.
IAGO. No more of drowning, do you hear?
IAGO. Not this hour, lieutenant; 'tis not yet ten o' the clock. Our
IAGO. Nothing, my lord; or if- I know not what.
IAGO. O gentle lady, do not put me to't,
IAGO. O me, lieutenant! What villains have done this?
IAGO. O notable strumpet! Cassio, may you suspect
IAGO. O sweet England!
IAGO. O villainous! I have looked upon the world for four times
IAGO. O, 'tis foul in her.
IAGO. O, did he so? I charge you, go with me.
IAGO. O, no; he goes into Mauritania, and takes away with him the
IAGO. O, sir, content you.
IAGO. O, they are our friends! But one cup; I'll drink for you.
IAGO. Or to be naked with her friend in bed
IAGO. Patience, I say; your mind perhaps may change.
IAGO. Ply Desdemona well, and you are sure on't.
IAGO. Poor and content is rich, and rich enough;
IAGO. She did deceive her father, marrying you;
IAGO. She gives it out that you shall marry her.
IAGO. She never yet was foolish that was fair,
IAGO. She that was ever fair and never proud,
IAGO. She's the worse for all this.
IAGO. Signior Gratiano? I cry you gentle pardon;
IAGO. Signior Lodovico?
IAGO. Sir, he is rash and very sudden in choler, and haply may
IAGO. Sir, there is especial commission come from Venice to depute
IAGO. Sir, would she give you so much of her lips
IAGO. So they do nothing, 'tis a venial slip.
IAGO. Some wine, ho!
IAGO. Something from Venice, sure. 'Tis Lodovico
IAGO. That Cassio loves her, I do well believe it;
IAGO. That's fouler.
IAGO. There is no other way; 'tis she must do't.
IAGO. There's many a beast then in a populous city,
IAGO. There's none so foul and foolish thereunto,
IAGO. Think, my lord?
IAGO. This is the fruit of whoring. Prithee, Emilia,
IAGO. Those are the raised father and his friends.
IAGO. Thou art sure of me- go, make money. I have told thee often,
IAGO. Though in the trade of war I have slain men,
IAGO. Thus do I ever make my fool my purse;
IAGO. To have a foolish wife.
IAGO. To suckle fools and chronicle small beer.
IAGO. Very well.
IAGO. Virtue? a fig! 'Tis in ourselves that we are thus or thus.
IAGO. Well, I may chance to see you, for I would very fain speak
IAGO. Well, go to, very well.
IAGO. Well, happiness to their sheets! Come, lieutenant, I have a
IAGO. What an eye she has! Methinks it sounds a parley to
IAGO. What are you here that cry so grievously?
IAGO. What in the contrary?
IAGO. What is your pleasure, madam? How is't with you?
IAGO. What say'st thou, noble heart?
IAGO. What was he that you followed with your sword?
IAGO. What, are you hurt, lieutenant?
IAGO. What, are you mad? I charge you, get you home.
IAGO. What, man! 'Tis a night of revels, the gallants desire it.
IAGO. Who is't that cried?
IAGO. Who's there? Whose noise is this that cries on murther?
IAGO. Why did he so?
IAGO. Why then I think Cassio's an honest man.
IAGO. Why, but you are now well enough. How came you thus
IAGO. Why, by making him uncapable of Othello's place; knocking out
IAGO. Why, go to bed and sleep.
IAGO. Why, he drinks you with facility your Dane dead drunk; he
IAGO. Why, how now, general! No more of that.
IAGO. Why, now I see there's mettle in thee; and even from this
IAGO. Why, then, 'tis hers, my lord, and being hers,
IAGO. Why, there's no remedy. 'Tis the curse of service,
IAGO. Will you hear me, Roderigo?
IAGO. Will you hear't again?
IAGO. Will you sup there?
IAGO. Will you think so?
IAGO. With Cassio, mistress. Go to, charm your tongue.
IAGO. Work on,
IAGO. You are a fool; go to.
IAGO. You are in the right. Good night, lieutenant, I must to the
IAGO. You cannot, if my heart were in your hand;
IAGO. You charge me most unjustly.
IAGO. You have not been abed, then?
IAGO. You have said now.
IAGO. You or any man living may be drunk at some time, man. I'll
IAGO. You see this fellow that is gone before;
IAGO. You, Roderigo! Come, sir, I am for you.
IAGO. Yours, by this hand. And to see how he prizes the foolish
IAGO. [Aside to Roderigo.] Away, I say; go out and cry a mutiny.
IAGO. [Aside to him.] How now, Roderigo!
IAGO. [Aside.] He takes her by the palm; ay, well said, whisper.
IAGO. [Going.] My lord, I take my leave.
IAGO. [Returning.] My lord, I would I might entreat your honor
IAGO. [Snatching it.] Why, what is that to you?
IAGO. [To Bianca.] What, look you pale? O, bear him out o' the air.
JOHN MORTON, BISHOP OF ELY
JOHN OF GAUNT, Duke of Lancaster - uncle to the King
KEEPER. Fellow, give place; here is no longer stay.
KEEPER. Help, help, help!
KEEPER. My lord, I dare not. Sir Pierce of Exton,
KEEPER. My lord, will't please you to fall to?
KING RICHARD THE SECOND
KING RICHARD. A king of beasts, indeed! If aught but beasts,
KING RICHARD. A lunatic lean-witted fool,
KING RICHARD. Alack, why am I sent for to a king,
KING RICHARD. And let them die that age and sullens have;
KING RICHARD. And say, what store of parting tears were shed?
KING RICHARD. And shall I have?
KING RICHARD. And, Norfolk, throw down his.
KING RICHARD. Ay, hand from hand, my love, and heart from heart.
KING RICHARD. Ay, no; no, ay; for I must nothing be;
KING RICHARD. Barkloughly Castle can they this at hand?
KING RICHARD. But now the blood of twenty thousand men
KING RICHARD. Can sick men play so nicely with their names?
KING RICHARD. Cousin, farewell; and, uncle, bid him so.
KING RICHARD. Cousin, throw up your gage; do you begin.
KING RICHARD. Discomfortable cousin! know'st thou not
KING RICHARD. Doubly divorc'd! Bad men, you violate
KING RICHARD. Down, down I come, like glist'ring Phaethon,
KING RICHARD. Fair cousin! I am greater than a king;
KING RICHARD. Fair cousin, you debase your princely knee
KING RICHARD. Farewell, my lord, securely I espy
KING RICHARD. Fiend, thou torments me ere I come to hell.
KING RICHARD. Give me the crown. Here, cousin, seize the crown.
KING RICHARD. Go, Bushy, to the Earl of Wiltshire straight;
KING RICHARD. He does me double wrong
KING RICHARD. He is our cousin, cousin; but 'tis doubt,
KING RICHARD. How high a pitch his resolution soars!
KING RICHARD. How now! What means death in this rude assault?
KING RICHARD. I am in health, I breathe, and see thee ill.
KING RICHARD. I had forgot myself; am I not King?
KING RICHARD. I have been studying how I may compare
KING RICHARD. If thou love me, 'tis time thou wert away.
KING RICHARD. It boots thee not to be compassionate;
KING RICHARD. Join not with grief, fair woman, do not so,
KING RICHARD. Let them lay by their helmets and their spears,
KING RICHARD. Marshal, ask yonder knight in arms,
KING RICHARD. Marshal, demand of yonder champion
KING RICHARD. Mine ear is open and my heart prepar'd.
KING RICHARD. Mine eyes are full of tears; I cannot see.
KING RICHARD. Mowbray, impartial are our eyes and cars.
KING RICHARD. Must I do so? And must I ravel out
KING RICHARD. My crown I am; but still my griefs are mine.
KING RICHARD. Needs must I like it well. I weep for joy
KING RICHARD. No lord of thine, thou haught insulting man,
KING RICHARD. No matter where-of comfort no man speak.
KING RICHARD. Norfolk, for thee remains a heavier doom,
KING RICHARD. Norfolk, throw down; we bid.
KING RICHARD. Northumberland, say thus the King returns:
KING RICHARD. Northumberland, thou ladder wherewithal
KING RICHARD. Now put it, God, in the physician's mind
KING RICHARD. O God, O God! that e'er this tongue of mine
KING RICHARD. O villains, vipers, damn'd without redemption!
KING RICHARD. O, good! Convey! Conveyers are you all,
KING RICHARD. Old John of Gaunt, time-honoured Lancaster,
KING RICHARD. Rage must be withstood:
KING RICHARD. Return again, and take an oath with thee.
KING RICHARD. Right, you say true: as Hereford's love, so his;
KING RICHARD. Rode he on Barbary? Tell me, gentle friend,
KING RICHARD. Say that again.
KING RICHARD. Should dying men flatter with those that live?
KING RICHARD. So proud that Bolingbroke was on his back!
KING RICHARD. So two, together weeping, make one woe.
KING RICHARD. Taste of it first as thou art wont to do.
KING RICHARD. Tell me, moreover, hast thou sounded him
KING RICHARD. Thanks, noble peer!
KING RICHARD. The devil take Henry of Lancaster and thee!
KING RICHARD. The ripest fruit first falls, and so doth he;
KING RICHARD. Then I must not say no.         Flourish. Exeunt
KING RICHARD. Then call them to our presence: face to face
KING RICHARD. Then give me leave to go.
KING RICHARD. They shall be satisfied. I'll read enough,
KING RICHARD. Think what you will, we seize into our hands
KING RICHARD. Thou chid'st me well. Proud Bolingbroke, I come
KING RICHARD. Thou hast said enough.
KING RICHARD. Thou, now a-dying, sayest thou flatterest me.
KING RICHARD. Thy son is banish'd upon good advice,
KING RICHARD. Too well, too well thou tell'st a tale so in.
KING RICHARD. Twice for one step I'll groan, the way being short,
KING RICHARD. Uncle, even in the glasses of thine eyes
KING RICHARD. We did observe. Cousin Aumerle,
KING RICHARD. We make woe wanton with this fond delay.
KING RICHARD. We thank you both; yet one but flatters us,
KING RICHARD. We were not born to sue, but to command;
KING RICHARD. We will descend and fold him in our arms.
KING RICHARD. We will ourself in person to this war;
KING RICHARD. Well you deserve. They well deserve to have
KING RICHARD. What comfort, man? How is't with aged Gaunt?
KING RICHARD. What doth our cousin lay to Mowbray's charge?
KING RICHARD. What must the King do now? Must he submit?
KING RICHARD. What said our cousin when you parted with him?
KING RICHARD. What says he?
KING RICHARD. Where lies he?
KING RICHARD. Whither you will, so I were from your sights.
KING RICHARD. Why, uncle, thou hast many years to live.
KING RICHARD. Why, uncle, what's the matter?
KING RICHARD. Wrath-kindled gentlemen, be rul'd by me;
KING RICHARD. Your cares set up do not pluck my cares down.
KING RICHARD. Your own is yours, and I am yours, and all.
KING RICHARD. [To NORTHUMBERLAND] We are amaz'd; and thus long
LADY ANNE, widow of Edward, Prince of Wales, son to King
LADY attending on the Queen
LADY. I could weep, madam, would it do you good.
LADY. Madam, I'll sing.
LADY. Madam, we'll dance.
LADY. Madam, we'll play at bowls.
LADY. Madam, we'll tell tales.
LADY. Of either, madam.
LODOVICO.                              Who, I, my lord?
LODOVICO.                            Is it his use?
LODOVICO.                     May be the letter moved him;
LODOVICO.                    What, strike his wife!
LODOVICO.         [To Iago.] O Spartan dog,
LODOVICO. Are his wits safe? Is he not light of brain?
LODOVICO. As you shall prove us, praise us.
LODOVICO. God save the worthy general!
LODOVICO. Hark!
LODOVICO. Hark!
LODOVICO. He did not call; he's busy in the paper.
LODOVICO. He, sir.
LODOVICO. I am sorry that I am deceived in him.             Exeunt.
LODOVICO. I do beseech you, sir, trouble yourself no further.
LODOVICO. I thank you. How does Lieutenant Cassio?
LODOVICO. Is this the noble Moor whom our full Senate
LODOVICO. Madam, good night; I humbly thank your ladyship.
LODOVICO. My lord, this would not be believed in Venice,
LODOVICO. Now here's another discontented paper,
LODOVICO. O bloody period!
LODOVICO. O thou Othello, that wert once so good,
LODOVICO. Sir, you shall understand what hath befall'n,
LODOVICO. The Duke and Senators of Venice greet you.
LODOVICO. The same indeed; a very valiant fellow.
LODOVICO. This wretch hath part confess'd his villainy.
LODOVICO. Truly, an obedient lady.
LODOVICO. Two or three groan; it is a heavy night.
LODOVICO. We do not know.
LODOVICO. What, not to pray?
LODOVICO. Where is that viper? Bring the villain forth.
LODOVICO. Where is this rash and most unfortunate man?
LODOVICO. Wrench his sword from him.
LODOVICO. You must forsake this room, and go with us.
LORD FITZWATER                        BISHOP OF CARLISLE
LORD HASTINGS
LORD LOVEL
LORD MAYOR OF LONDON
LORD Ross                             LORD WILLOUGHBY
LORD STANLEY, called also EARL OF DERBY
Lords, Gentlemen, and Attendants; Priest, Scrivener, Page, Bishops,
Lords, Heralds, Officers, Soldiers, Keeper, Messenger,
MARGARET, widow of King Henry VI
MARQUIS OF DORSET and LORD GREY, her sons
MARSHAL. Harry of Hereford, Lancaster, and Derby,
MARSHAL. In God's name and the King's, say who thou art,
MARSHAL. My Lord Aumerle, is Harry Hereford arm'd?
MARSHAL. My lord, no leave take I, for I will ride
MARSHAL. On pain of death, no person be so bold
MARSHAL. Sound trumpets; and set forward, combatants.
MARSHAL. The Duke of Norfolk, spightfully and bold,
MARSHAL. The appellant in all duty greets your Highness,
MARSHAL. What is thy name? and wherefore com'st thou hither
MARSHAL. [To an officer] Go bear this lance to Thomas,
MESSENGER. Of thirty sail; and now they do re-stem
MESSENGER. The Ottomites, reverend and gracious,
MONTANO.                         Pray heavens he be,
MONTANO.                        It were well
MONTANO.                  But is he often thus?
MONTANO.                 If that the Turkish fleet
MONTANO.                What is she?
MONTANO. 'Tis a notorious villain. Take you this weapon,
MONTANO. 'Zounds, I bleed still; I am hurt to the death.
MONTANO. And 'tis great pity that the noble Moor
MONTANO. But, good lieutenant, is your general wived?
MONTANO. Come, come, you're drunk.
MONTANO. Good faith, a little one; not past a pint, as I am a
MONTANO. How? Is this true?
MONTANO. I am for it, lieutenant, and I'll do you justice.
MONTANO. I am glad on't; 'tis a worthy governor.
MONTANO. I she well shipp'd?
MONTANO. If partially affined, or leagued in office,
MONTANO. Methinks the wind hath spoke aloud at land;
MONTANO. Nay, good lieutenant; I pray you, sir, hold your hand.
MONTANO. O monstrous act!
MONTANO. To the platform, masters; come, let's set the watch.
MONTANO. What from the cape can you discern at sea?
MONTANO. What is the matter? How now, general?
MONTANO. What's the matter, lieutenant?
MONTANO. Worthy Othello, I am hurt to danger.
MOWBRAY. A heavy sentence, my most sovereign liege,
MOWBRAY. And I, to keep all this.
MOWBRAY. Each day still better other's happiness
MOWBRAY. However God or fortune cast my lot,
MOWBRAY. I take it up; and by that sword I swear
MOWBRAY. Let not my cold words here accuse my zeal.
MOWBRAY. My name is Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk;
MOWBRAY. Myself I throw, dread sovereign, at thy foot;
MOWBRAY. No, Bolingbroke; if ever I were traitor,
MOWBRAY. O, let my sovereign turn away his face
MOWBRAY. Then thus I turn me from my countrv's light,
MOWBRAY. Then, Bolingbroke, as low as to thy heart,
MOWBRAY. Yea, but not change his spots. Take but my shame,
NORTHUMBERLAND. Believe me, noble lord,
NORTHUMBERLAND. First, to thy sacred state wish I all happiness.
NORTHUMBERLAND. Have you forgot the Duke of Hereford, boy?
NORTHUMBERLAND. Here come the Lords of Ross and Willoughby,
NORTHUMBERLAND. His noble kinsman-most degenerate king!
NORTHUMBERLAND. How far is it to Berkeley? And what stir
NORTHUMBERLAND. It is my Lord of Berkeley, as I guess.
NORTHUMBERLAND. It is my son, young Harry Percy,
NORTHUMBERLAND. My guilt be on my head, and there an end.
NORTHUMBERLAND. My liege, old Gaunt commends him to your Majesty.
NORTHUMBERLAND. My lord, dispatch; read o'er these
NORTHUMBERLAND. My lord, in the base court he doth attend
NORTHUMBERLAND. My lord, the mind of Bolingbroke is chang'd;
NORTHUMBERLAND. My lord-
NORTHUMBERLAND. Nay, nothing; all is said.
NORTHUMBERLAND. Nay, speak thy mind; and let him ne'er speak more
NORTHUMBERLAND. No more; but that you read
NORTHUMBERLAND. Not so; even through the hollow eyes of death
NORTHUMBERLAND. Now, afore God, 'tis shame such wrongs are borne
NORTHUMBERLAND. O, belike it is the Bishop of Carlisle.
NORTHUMBERLAND. Read o'er this paper while the glass doth come.
NORTHUMBERLAND. Reproach and dissolution hangeth over him.
NORTHUMBERLAND. Richly in both, if justice had her right.
NORTHUMBERLAND. Sorrow and grief of heart
NORTHUMBERLAND. That were some love, but little policy.
NORTHUMBERLAND. The Commons will not, then, be satisfied.
NORTHUMBERLAND. The King of Heaven forbid our lord the King
NORTHUMBERLAND. The news is very fair and good, my lord.
NORTHUMBERLAND. The noble Duke hath been too much abused.
NORTHUMBERLAND. The noble Duke hath sworn his coming is
NORTHUMBERLAND. Then learn to know him now; this is the Duke.
NORTHUMBERLAND. Then thus: I have from Le Port Blanc, a bay
NORTHUMBERLAND. Wars hath not wasted it, for warr'd he hath not,
NORTHUMBERLAND. Well have you argued, sir; and, for your pains,
NORTHUMBERLAND. Well, lords, the Duke of Lancaster is dead.
NORTHUMBERLAND. What was his reason?
NORTHUMBERLAND. Why, is he not with the Queen?
NORTHUMBERLAND. Your Grace mistakes; only to be brief,
OTHELLO.                                      Who's there?
OTHELLO.                                     Have with you.
OTHELLO.                                 No, not tonight.
OTHELLO.                                 With all my heart.
OTHELLO.                                Indeed!
OTHELLO.                               I say, amen.
OTHELLO.                               Pray, chuck, come hither.
OTHELLO.                               Will you walk, sir?
OTHELLO.                               With all my heart, sir.
OTHELLO.                             He, woman;
OTHELLO.                            I think thou dost;
OTHELLO.                           The sooner, sweet, for you.
OTHELLO.                           Yes, presently:
OTHELLO.                          If it be that-
OTHELLO.                          Let me see your eyes;
OTHELLO.                         Ay, Desdemona.
OTHELLO.                         I cry you mercy then;
OTHELLO.                         I know, Iago,
OTHELLO.                         I shall not dine at home;
OTHELLO.                         Sweet soul, take heed,
OTHELLO.                        It is even so.
OTHELLO.                        It is too late.     He stifles her.
OTHELLO.                       By the world,
OTHELLO.                       Ha, ha, false to me?
OTHELLO.                       No, his mouth is stopp'd;
OTHELLO.                       No, not much moved.
OTHELLO.                       O fool! fool! fool!
OTHELLO.                       What dost thou mean?
OTHELLO.                      Behold, I have a weapon;
OTHELLO.                      I'll tear her all to pieces.
OTHELLO.                      O devil, devil!
OTHELLO.                      What hath he said?
OTHELLO.                      What is the matter here?
OTHELLO.                      Why, anything;
OTHELLO.                     Being done, there is no pause.
OTHELLO.                     I do beseech you,
OTHELLO.                     I greet thy love,
OTHELLO.                     I will deny thee nothing,
OTHELLO.                     O the pernicious caitiff!
OTHELLO.                     Peace, you were best.
OTHELLO.                    Amen to that, sweet powers!
OTHELLO.                    Had it pleased heaven
OTHELLO.                    Now, by heaven,
OTHELLO.                    Went he hence now?
OTHELLO.                   He hath confess'd.
OTHELLO.                   Hold your hands,
OTHELLO.                   I am bound to thee forever.
OTHELLO.                   I am not valiant neither,
OTHELLO.                   Now he importunes him
OTHELLO.                   Peace, and be still!
OTHELLO.                  Are there not stones in heaven
OTHELLO.                  Holla! Stand there!
OTHELLO.                  Would? Nay, I will.
OTHELLO.                 Think so, Iago?
OTHELLO.                Dost thou hear, Iago?
OTHELLO.                That's not so good now.
OTHELLO.               And so she did.
OTHELLO.               Let him do his spite.
OTHELLO.               Not I; I must be found.
OTHELLO.               What if I do obey?
OTHELLO.               What is the matter, think you?
OTHELLO.              An unauthorized kiss.
OTHELLO.              Bid her come hither; go.         Exit Emilia.
OTHELLO.              Farewell, farewell.
OTHELLO.              Hath he said anything?
OTHELLO.              So please your Grace, my ancient;
OTHELLO.             'Tis well I am found by you.
OTHELLO.             Come, let us to the castle.
OTHELLO.             Death and damnation! O!
OTHELLO.             I do believe 'twas he.
OTHELLO.             What dost thou say, Iago?
OTHELLO.            Damn her, lewd minx! O, damn her!
OTHELLO.            Iago is most honest.
OTHELLO.            [Rises.] O, she was foul!
OTHELLO.           Roderigo kill'd?
OTHELLO.           Why of thy thought, Iago?
OTHELLO.           Your napkin is too little;
OTHELLO.         Why, why is this?
OTHELLO. 'Tis better as it is.
OTHELLO. 'Tis he. O brave Iago, honest and just,
OTHELLO. 'Tis pitiful, but yet Iago knows
OTHELLO. 'Tis true; there's magic in the web of it.
OTHELLO. A horned man's a monster and a beast.
OTHELLO. A liberal hand. The hearts of old gave hands;
OTHELLO. All's well now, sweeting; come away to bed.
OTHELLO. Amen, with all my heart!
OTHELLO. Ancient, conduct them; you best know the place.
OTHELLO. And yet, how nature erring from itself-
OTHELLO. Are not you a strumpet?
OTHELLO. Are you sure of that?
OTHELLO. Are you wise?
OTHELLO. Avaunt! be gone! Thou hast set me on the rack.
OTHELLO. Away!                                                Exit.
OTHELLO. Ay, 'twas he that told me first.
OTHELLO. Ay, I do.
OTHELLO. Ay, and for that thou diest.
OTHELLO. Ay, let her rot, and perish, and be damned tonight, for
OTHELLO. Ay, with Cassio. Nay, had she been true,
OTHELLO. Ay, you did wish that I would make her turn.
OTHELLO. Ay.
OTHELLO. Ay.
OTHELLO. But this denoted a foregone conclusion.
OTHELLO. By heaven, I saw my handkerchief in 's hand.
OTHELLO. By heaven, I would most gladly have forgot it.
OTHELLO. By heaven, I'll know thy thoughts.
OTHELLO. By heaven, that should be my handkerchief!
OTHELLO. Cassio did top her; ask thy husband else.
OTHELLO. Certain, men should be what they seem.
OTHELLO. Come, swear it, damn thyself;
OTHELLO. Crying, "O dear Cassio!" as it were; his gesture imports
OTHELLO. Devil!                                        Strikes her.
OTHELLO. Did he confess it?
OTHELLO. Do you triumph, Roman? Do you triumph?
OTHELLO. Dost thou mock me?
OTHELLO. Dost thou say so?
OTHELLO. Down, strumpet!
OTHELLO. Excellent good. [A trumpet within.] What trumpet is that
OTHELLO. Excellent wretch! Perdition catch my soul,
OTHELLO. Farewell, my Desdemona; I'll come to thee straight.
OTHELLO. Fear not my government.
OTHELLO. Fetch me the handkerchief, my mind misgives.
OTHELLO. Fetch't, let me see it.
OTHELLO. Fire and brimstone!
OTHELLO. Get me some poison, Iago, this night. I'll not expostulate
OTHELLO. Get you to bed on the instant; I will be returned
OTHELLO. Give me a living reason she's disloyal.
OTHELLO. Give me your hand. This hand is moist, my lady.
OTHELLO. Good Michael, look you to the guard tonight.
OTHELLO. Good, good, the justice of it pleases, very good.
OTHELLO. Ha!
OTHELLO. Ha!
OTHELLO. Ha! wherefore?
OTHELLO. Had all his hairs been lives, my great revenge
OTHELLO. Hang her! I do but say what she is. So delicate with her
OTHELLO. Have you pray'd tonight, Desdemona?
OTHELLO. Have you scored me? Well.
OTHELLO. He did, from first to last. Why dost thou ask?
OTHELLO. Heaven truly knows that thou art false as hell.
OTHELLO. Her father loved me, oft invited me,
OTHELLO. Hold, for your lives!
OTHELLO. Honest? Ay, honest.
OTHELLO. How comes it, Michael, you are thus forgot?
OTHELLO. How?
OTHELLO. Hum!
OTHELLO. I am glad to see you mad.
OTHELLO. I am not sorry neither. I'ld have thee live,
OTHELLO. I am to blame.
OTHELLO. I do believe it, and I ask your pardon.
OTHELLO. I gave her such a one; 'twas my first gift.
OTHELLO. I had been happy if the general camp,
OTHELLO. I had forgot thee. O, come in, Emilia.
OTHELLO. I have a pain upon my forehead here.
OTHELLO. I have a salt and sorry rheum offends me;
OTHELLO. I have another weapon in this chamber;
OTHELLO. I kiss the instrument of their pleasures.
OTHELLO. I kiss'd thee ere I kill'd thee. No way but this,
OTHELLO. I look down towards his feet; but that's a fable.
OTHELLO. I think so too.
OTHELLO. I will chop her into messes. Cuckold me!
OTHELLO. I will not.
OTHELLO. I would have him nine years akilling. A fine woman! a fair
OTHELLO. Iago beckons me; now he begins the story.
OTHELLO. If thou dost slander her and torture me,
OTHELLO. If you bethink yourself of any crime
OTHELLO. Indeed? ay, indeed. Discern'st thou aught in that?
OTHELLO. Is't lost? is't gone? speak, is it out o' the way?
OTHELLO. Is't possible?
OTHELLO. It gives me wonder great as my content
OTHELLO. It is the cause, it is the cause, my soul.
OTHELLO. It is the very error of the moon;
OTHELLO. Keep up your bright swords, for the dew will rust them.
OTHELLO. Let her have your voices.
OTHELLO. Lie with her! lie on her! We say lie on her, when they
OTHELLO. Look in upon me then, and speak with me,
OTHELLO. Look, how he laughs already!
OTHELLO. Make me to see't; or at the least so prove it,
OTHELLO. Mistress!
OTHELLO. Most potent, grave, and reverend signiors,
OTHELLO. Most veritable; therefore look to't well.
OTHELLO. My life upon her faith! Honest Iago,
OTHELLO. Naked in bed, Iago, and not mean harm!
OTHELLO. Nay, if you strive-
OTHELLO. Nay, stare not, masters; it is true indeed.
OTHELLO. Nay, stay; thou shouldst be honest.
OTHELLO. Nay, that's certain. But yet the pity of it, Iago!
OTHELLO. Nay, yet there's more in this.
OTHELLO. Never, Iago. Like to the Pontic Sea,
OTHELLO. Nor I.
OTHELLO. Nor send you out o' the way?
OTHELLO. Not Cassio kill'd! Then murther's out of tune,
OTHELLO. Not a jot, not a jot.
OTHELLO. Not now, sweet Desdemona; some other time.
OTHELLO. Not?
OTHELLO. Now he denies it faintly and laughs it out.
OTHELLO. Now he tells how she plucked him to my chamber. O, I see
OTHELLO. O Desdemona! Away! away! away!
OTHELLO. O Iago!
OTHELLO. O misery!
OTHELLO. O monstrous! monstrous!
OTHELLO. O my fair warrior!
OTHELLO. O villain!
OTHELLO. O! O! O!                                 Falls on the bed.
OTHELLO. O, a thousand, a thousand times. And then, of so gentle a
OTHELLO. O, ay, as summer flies are in the shambles,
OTHELLO. O, blood, blood, blood!
OTHELLO. O, pardon me; 'twill do me good to walk.
OTHELLO. O, that the slave had forty thousand lives!
OTHELLO. O, thou art wise; 'tis certain.
OTHELLO. O, yes, and went between us very oft.
OTHELLO. Out, strumpet! Weep'st thou for him to my face?
OTHELLO. Prithee, no more. Let him come when he will;
OTHELLO. Say you?
OTHELLO. She is protectress of her honor too.
OTHELLO. She turn'd to folly, and she was a whore.
OTHELLO. She was false as water.
OTHELLO. She's like a liar gone to burning hell;
OTHELLO. So, so, so, so. They laugh that win.
OTHELLO. Soft you; a word or two before you go.
OTHELLO. That handkerchief which I so loved and gave thee
OTHELLO. That he hath used thee.
OTHELLO. That which I gave you.
OTHELLO. That's a fault. That handkerchief
OTHELLO. That's he that was Othello. Here I am.
OTHELLO. That's strange.
OTHELLO. That? what?
OTHELLO. The handkerchief!
OTHELLO. The handkerchief!
OTHELLO. The handkerchief!
OTHELLO. The servants of the Duke? And my lieutenant?
OTHELLO. The tyrant custom, most grave senators,
OTHELLO. The voice of Cassio; Iago keeps his word.
OTHELLO. These letters give, Iago, to the pilot,
OTHELLO. Think on thy sins.
OTHELLO. Think, my lord? By heaven, he echoes me,
OTHELLO. This argues fruitfulness and liberal heart;
OTHELLO. This fellow's of exceeding honesty,
OTHELLO. This fortification, gentlemen, shall we see't?
OTHELLO. Thou dost conspire against thy friend, Iago,
OTHELLO. Thy husband.
OTHELLO. To fetch her fan, her gloves, her mask, nor nothing?
OTHELLO. Villain, be sure thou prove my love a whore;
OTHELLO. Was not that Cassio parted from my wife?
OTHELLO. Was that mine?
OTHELLO. Was this fair paper, this most goodly book,
OTHELLO. Well, do it, and be brief; I will walk by.
OTHELLO. Well, my good lady. [Aside.] O, hardness to dissemble!
OTHELLO. Well, thou dost best.
OTHELLO. What dost thou say?
OTHELLO. What dost thou think?
OTHELLO. What needs this iteration, woman? I say thy husband.
OTHELLO. What noise is this? Not dead? not yet quite dead?
OTHELLO. What promise, chuck?
OTHELLO. What sense had I of her stol'n hours of lust?
OTHELLO. What then?
OTHELLO. What would you with her, sir?
OTHELLO. What, did they never whisper?
OTHELLO. What, not a whore?
OTHELLO. What, now?
OTHELLO. What? what?
OTHELLO. Who is't you mean?
OTHELLO. Why did I marry? This honest creature doubtless
OTHELLO. Why, how now, ho! from whence ariseth this?
OTHELLO. Why, how should she be murther'd?
OTHELLO. Why, what art thou?
OTHELLO. With her?
OTHELLO. With mine officer!
OTHELLO. Worthy Montano, you were wont be civil;
OTHELLO. Yes, 'tis Emilia. By and by. She's dead.
OTHELLO. Yes, you have seen Cassio and she together.
OTHELLO. You have seen nothing, then?
OTHELLO. You heard her say herself, it was not I.
OTHELLO. [Advancing.] How shall I murther him, Iago?
OTHELLO. [Reads.] "This fail you not to do, as you will-"
OTHELLO. [To Emilia.] Some of your function, mistress,
PERCY. Aumerle, thou liest; his honour is as true
PERCY. Because your lordship was proclaimed traitor.
PERCY. His answer was, he would unto the stews,
PERCY. I had thought, my lord, to have learn'd his health of you.
PERCY. My gracious lord, I tender you my service,
PERCY. My lord, some two days since I saw the Prince,
PERCY. No, my good lord; for that is not forgot
PERCY. No, my good lord; he hath forsook the court,
PERCY. The grand conspirator, Abbot of Westminster,
PERCY. There stands the castle, by yon tuft of trees,
PERCY. Yes, my good lord,
PIERCY. The castle royally is mann'd, my lord,
QUEEN to King Richard
QUEEN. 'Tis nothing less: conceit is still deriv'd
QUEEN. 'Tis well' that thou hast cause;
QUEEN. 'Twill make me think the world is full of rubs
QUEEN. And I could sing, would weeping do me good,
QUEEN. And must we be divided? Must we part?
QUEEN. Banish us both, and send the King with me.
QUEEN. Give me mine own again; 'twere no good part
QUEEN. How fares our noble uncle Lancaster?
QUEEN. It may be so; but yet my inward soul
QUEEN. My legs can keep no measure in delight,
QUEEN. Nimble mischance, that art so light of foot,
QUEEN. Now God in heaven forbid!
QUEEN. O, I am press'd to death through want of speaking!
QUEEN. Of neither, girl;
QUEEN. Of sorrow or of joy?
QUEEN. So longest way shall have the longest moans.
QUEEN. So, Green, thou art the midwife to my woe,
QUEEN. Then whither he goes thither let me go.
QUEEN. This way the King will come; this is the way
QUEEN. To please the King, I did; to please myself
QUEEN. What sport shall we devise here in this garden
QUEEN. What, is my Richard both in shape and mind
QUEEN. Who shall hinder me?
QUEEN. Why hopest thou so? 'Tis better hope he is;
QUEEN. With signs of war about his aged neck.
RICHARD, DUKE OF GLOUCESTER, afterwards KING RICHARD III
RICHARD, DUKE OF YORK,
RODERIGO.                      Patience, good sir.
RODERIGO.                     O, I am slain!
RODERIGO.                   Most grave Brabantio,
RODERIGO.             Yes, sir, I have indeed.
RODERIGO.           I would not follow him then.
RODERIGO. Adieu.                                              Exit.
RODERIGO. And that you would have me to do?
RODERIGO. Ay, and said nothing but what I protest intendment of
RODERIGO. Be near at hand; I may miscarry in't.
RODERIGO. Beat me!
RODERIGO. By heaven, I rather would have been his hangman.
RODERIGO. Every day thou daffest me with some device, Iago; and
RODERIGO. Faith, I have heard too much, for your words and
RODERIGO. Here is her father's house; I'll call aloud.
RODERIGO. How do you mean, removing of him?
RODERIGO. I am changed; I'll go sell all my land.             Exit.
RODERIGO. I cannot believe that in her; she's full of most blest
RODERIGO. I do follow here in the chase, not like a hound that
RODERIGO. I do not find that thou dealest justly with me.
RODERIGO. I have no great devotion to the deed;
RODERIGO. I know his gait; 'tis he. Villain, thou diest!
RODERIGO. I tell you 'tis not very well. I will make myself known
RODERIGO. I think I can discover him, if you please
RODERIGO. I will do this, if I can bring it to any opportunity.
RODERIGO. I will hear further reason for this.
RODERIGO. I will incontinently drown myself.
RODERIGO. I'll be with thee betimes.
RODERIGO. Iago!
RODERIGO. Is that true? Why then Othello and Desdemona return again
RODERIGO. It cannot be.
RODERIGO. It hath not appeared.
RODERIGO. It is silliness to live when to live is torment, and then
RODERIGO. Most reverend signior, do you know my voice?
RODERIGO. My name is Roderigo.
RODERIGO. Nobody come? Then shall I bleed to death.
RODERIGO. O damn'd Iago! O inhuman dog!
RODERIGO. O wretched villain!
RODERIGO. O, help me here!
RODERIGO. O, villain that I am!
RODERIGO. Signior, is all your family within?
RODERIGO. Signior, it is the Moor.
RODERIGO. Sir, I will answer anything. But, I beseech you,
RODERIGO. Sir, sir, sir-
RODERIGO. Truly, I think they are.
RODERIGO. Very well! go to! I cannot go to, man; nor 'tis not very
RODERIGO. Well, what is it? Is it within reason and compass?
RODERIGO. Well.
RODERIGO. What a full fortune does the thick-lips owe,
RODERIGO. What say you?
RODERIGO. What should I do? I confess it is my shame to be so fond,
RODERIGO. What will I do, thinkest thou?
RODERIGO. What, ho, Brabantio! Signior Brabantio, ho!
RODERIGO. Where shall we meet i' the morning?
RODERIGO. Wilt thou be fast to my hopes, if I depend on the issue?
RODERIGO. With him? Why, 'tis not possible.
RODERIGO. With nought but truth. I have wasted myself out of my
RODERIGO. Yes, that I did; but that was but courtesy.
ROSS. Be confident to speak, Northumberland.
ROSS. He hath not money for these Irish wars,
ROSS. It stands your Grace upon to do him right.
ROSS. My heart is great; but it must break with silence,
ROSS. No good at all that I can do for him;
ROSS. The Earl of Wiltshire hath the realm in farm.
ROSS. The commons hath he pill'd with grievous taxes;
ROSS. To horse, to horse! Urge doubts to them that fear.
ROSS. We see the very wreck that we must suffer;
ROSS. Your presence makes us rich, most noble lord.
Retires.
SAILOR. The Turkish preparation makes for Rhodes,
SAILOR. [Within.] What, ho! What, ho! What, ho!
SALISBURY. Ah, Richard, with the eyes of heavy mind,
SALISBURY. Nor near nor farther off, my gracious lord,
SALISBURY. Stay yet another day, thou trusty Welshman;
SCROOP. Ay, all of them at Bristow lost their heads.
SCROOP. Glad am I that your Highness is so arm'd
SCROOP. Men judge by the complexion of the sky
SCROOP. More health and happiness betide my liege
SCROOP. Peace have they made with him indeed, my lord.
SCROOP. Sweet love, I see, changing his property,
SECOND GENTLEMAN. 'Tis one Iago, ancient to the general.
SECOND GENTLEMAN. A segregation of the Turkish fleet.
SECOND GENTLEMAN. I shall.                                    Exit.
SECOND GENTLEMAN. They do discharge their shot of courtesy-
SECOND GENTLEMAN. They give their greeting to the citadel;
SECOND HERALD. Here standeth Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk,
SECOND SENATOR.                      And mine, two hundred.
SERVANT. He did.
SERVANT. These were his very words.
SERVANT. What, are they dead?
SERVANT. What, think you the King shall be deposed?
SERVANT. Why should we, in the compass of a pale,
SERVINGMAN. An hour before I came, the Duchess died.
SERVINGMAN. My lord, I had forgot to tell your lordship,
SERVINGMAN. My lord, your son was gone before I came.
SHERIFF OF WILTSHIRE
SIR JAMES BLOUNT
SIR JAMES TYRREL
SIR RICHARD RATCLIFF
SIR ROBERT BRAKENBURY, Lieutenant of the Tower
SIR STEPHEN SCROOP                    SIR PIERCE OF EXTON
SIR THOMAS VAUGHAN
SIR WALTER HERBERT
SIR WILLIAM BRANDON
SIR WILLIAM CATESBY
SURREY. As false, by heaven, as heaven itself is true.
SURREY. Dishonourable boy!
SURREY. My Lord Fitzwater, I do remember well
THIRD GENTLEMAN.            The ship is here put in,
THIRD GENTLEMAN. But this same Cassio, though he speak of comfort
THIRD GENTLEMAN. Come, let's do so,
THIRD GENTLEMAN. News, lads! Our wars are done.
THOMAS MOWBRAY, Duke of Norfolk
THOMAS ROTHERHAM, ARCHBISHOP OF YORK
TRESSEL and BERKELEY, gentlemen attending on Lady Anne
WILLOUGHBY. And daily new exactions are devis'd,
WILLOUGHBY. And far surmounts our labour to attain it.
WILLOUGHBY. Barely in title, not in revenues.
WILLOUGHBY. Base men by his endowments are made great.
WILLOUGHBY. Hold out my horse, and I will first be there.
WILLOUGHBY. Nay, let us share thy thoughts as thou dost ours.
WILLOUGHBY. Tends that thou wouldst speak to the Duke of Hereford?
WILLOUGHBY. The King's grown bankrupt like a broken man.
YORK. A gentleman of mine I have dispatch'd
YORK. Against them both, my true joints bended be.
YORK. As in a theatre the eyes of men
YORK. Aumerle that was
YORK. Away, fond woman! were he twenty times my son
YORK. Be York the next that must be bankrupt so!
YORK. Bound to himself! What doth he with a bond
YORK. Bring me my boots. I will unto the King.
YORK. Even in condition of the worst degree-
YORK. Give me my boots, I say.
YORK. Give me my boots, I say; saddle my horse.
YORK. God for his mercy! what a tide of woes
YORK. Great Duke of Lancaster, I come to the
YORK. He was-why so go all which way it will!
YORK. Ho! who is within there?
YORK. How long shall I be patient? Ah, how long
YORK. I do beseech your Majesty impute his words
YORK. I will be his conduct.                              Exit
YORK. I will be satisfied; let me see it, I say.
YORK. I'll not be by the while. My liege, farewell.
YORK. If thou do pardon whosoever pray,
YORK. It may be I will go with you; but yet I'll pause,
YORK. It was, villain, ere thy hand did set it down.
YORK. It would beseem the Lord Northumberland
YORK. Make way, unruly woman!                             Exit
YORK. My lords of England, let me tell you this:
YORK. No matter, then, who see it.
YORK. No; it is stopp'd with other flattering sounds,
YORK. O my liege,
YORK. Peace, foolish woman.
YORK. Peruse this writing here, and thou shalt know
YORK. Should I do so, I should belie my thoughts.
YORK. Show me thy humble heart, and not thy knee,
YORK. So shall my virtue be his vice's bawd;
YORK. Speak it in French, King, say 'pardonne moy.'
YORK. Take not, good cousin, further than you should,
YORK. The King is come; deal mildly with his youth,
YORK. The time hath been,
YORK. Then, as I said, the Duke, great Bolingbroke,
YORK. Thou fond mad woman,
YORK. Thou frantic woman, what dost thou make here?
YORK. To do that office of thine own good will
YORK. Tut, tut!
YORK. Vex not yourself, nor strive not with your breath;
YORK. Well, bear you well in this new spring of time,
YORK. Well, well, I see the issue of these arms.
YORK. What is't, knave?
YORK. What seal is that that without thy bosom?
YORK. Where did I leave?
YORK. Which for some reasons, sir, I mean to see.
YORK. Yet he looks like a king. Behold, his eye,
YORK. You will be there, I know.
YORK. [Within] My liege, beware; look to thyself;
YORK. [Within] Open the door, secure, foolhardy King.
Exit
1593
1596
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTR