




1
10
100
101
102
103
104105
Exeunt106
Exeunt107
Exeunt108
Exeunt109
BERTRAM.'11
Exit WIDOW110
Exit ALEXAS111
Exeunt omnes112
PAROLLES.'113
[A march afar]114
Exit SOOTHSAYER115
DIANA CAPILET.'116
Exeunt ATTENDANTS12
Exit an ATTENDANT13
[Giving a letter]14
[Flourish. Exeunt]15
[Opening a letter]16
[Strikes him down]17
[Pointing to LAFEU]18
[They blindfold him]19
Enter WIDOW and DIANA2
Your unfortunate son,20
[BERTRAM gives a ring]21
[Falling on his sword]22
[GUARDS seize BERTRAM]23
Exeunt BERTRAM and LORDS24
The KING retires attended25
[They meet other soldiers]26
commenting of this wedding27
Exeunt BERTRAM and PAROLLES28
[She hales him up and down]29
Exeunt ANTONY and EUPHRONIUS3
in every corner of the stage]30
[Sound a flourish, with drums]31
Enter LAFEU32
Exeunt BERTRAM, PAROLLES, and ARMY33
Exeunt all but ENOBARBUS and MENAS34
EPILOGUE.35
Enter ANTONY36
Enter HELENA37
Re-enter the KING38
SCENE II. Rome. CAESAR'S house39
[Alarum afar off, as at a sea-fight]4
[Shout. Flourish of trumpets within]40
Enter BERTRAM41
Enter LAFEU42
Re-enter CLOWN43
SCENE IV.44
SCENE IX.45
SCENE V.46
SCENE VII.47
SCENE X.48
SCENE XIII.49
Enter BERTRAM5
Enter CLEOPATRA50
Enter HELENA51
SCENE II.52
SCENE III.53
SCENE III.54
SCENE IV.55
SCENE V.56
SCENE VI.57
SCENE VII.58
SCENE VII.59
SCENE VIII.6
SCENE X.60
SCENE XIII.61
SCENE XIV.62
[They heave ANTONY aloft to CLEOPATRA]63
whole ARMY64
with others65
EROS following66
Enter ALEXAS67
Enter MARDIAN68
Enter PAROLLES69
Enter PAROLLES7
Exeunt ANTONY, CLEOPATRA, and ENOBARBUS70
Re-enter CLOWN71
Re-enter LAFEU72
SCENE IX.73
SCENE VI.74
SCENE VIII.75
SCENE XI.76
SCENE XI.77
SCENE XII.78
SCENE XII.79
SCENE XV.8
and IRAS80
with other CAPTAINS81
Enter BERTRAM82
Enter EROS83
Enter PAROLLES84
Enter SCARUS85
Enter SOOTHSAYER86
Enter a GENTLEMAN87
Enter a MESSENGER88
THE SONG89
and others9
with others90
Enter BERTRAM, guarded91
Enter CANIDIUS92
Enter DIOMEDES93
Enter ENOBARBUS94
Enter PAROLLES95
Enter PAROLLES96
Enter THYREUS97
Enter VARRIUS98
Enter VENTIDIUS99
Enter a MESSENGERChampaign, IL 61825
Enter a MESSENGEREnter a SERVANT
P.O. Box 2782Enter a SOLDIER
Illinois Benedictine College" (or to such other personEnter servants
additional cost, fee or expense, a copy of the etextExeunt CLEOPATRA, ENOBARBUS, and the rest
and underline (_) characters may be used to conveyRe-enter EROS
as the Project Gutenberg Association may direct)and ENOBARBUS
author of the work, although tilde (~), asterisk (*)by the program that displays the etext (as is the
meeting themA plain near Actium
case, for instance, with most word processors).ACT IV. SCENE I.
characters may be used to indicate hypertext links.CAESAR'S camp
consider an etext *not* clearly readable if itEnter CLEOPATRA
contains characters other than those intended by theEnter PAGE
distributing under our trademark, you incur noEnter PAROLLES
distribution.Enter a GENTLEMAN
expense into in plain ASCII, EBCDIC or equivalent formEnter a MESSENGER
federal income tax return with respect to your profitsExeunt ANTONY, EROS, CAPTAINS and soldiers
for that year.Re-enter ANTONY
in its original plain ASCII form (or in EBCDIC or[Music of the hautboys is under the stage]
obligation to charge money or earn profits for your117
other equivalent proprietary form).118
punctuation intended by the author, and additional119
were legally required to prepare) your year-end120
within the 60 days following each date you prepare (or121
Ausonii Epistola, xvi.  75-80.122
Mail:  Prof. Michael Hart123
Bitnet: hart@uiucvmd124
Tel:  (212) 254-5093125
Attmail: internet!vmd.cso.uiuc.edu!Hart126
Internet: hart@vmd.cso.uiuc.edu127
[*]  Is required only if you derive such profits.  In128
[*]  Shall be paid to "Project Gutenberg Association /129
[*]  The etext may be readily converted by the reader at no130
[*]  The etext, when displayed, is clearly readable.  We131
[*]  You provide, or agree to also provide on request at no132
accepted accounting practices.  The license fee:133
compressed, mark-up, or proprietary form, including any134
form resulting from conversion by word processing or hyper-135
net profits you derive from distributing this etext under136
quires that you do not remove, alter or modify the etext or137
text software, but only so long as *EITHER*:138
the trademark, determined in accordance with generally139
this "small print!" statement.  You may however, if you140
wish, distribute this etext in machine readable binary,'Tis thee (my self) that for my self I praise,
141(1) The etext, when displayed, is clearly readable, and does
142(2) The etext is readily convertible by the reader at no
143(3) You provide or agree to provide on request at no
144(Though you do any thing) he thinks no ill.
145146
Ah but those tears are pearl which thy love sheds,147
All days are nights to see till I see thee,148
All losses are restored, and sorrows end.149
All this away, and me most wretchcd make.150
And all in war with Time for love of you,151
And even thence thou wilt be stol'n I fear,152
And him as for a map doth Nature store,153
And mock you with me after I am gone.154
And more, much more than in my verse can sit,A plain in Syria
And my heart's right, thy inward love of heart.ACT III. SCENE I.
And night doth nightly make grief's length seem strongerALEXAS, with others
And nights bright days when dreams do show thee me.And nothing 'gainst Time's scythe can make defence
CLEOPATRA'S palaceAnd other strains of woe, which now seem woe,
Enter A MESSENGERAnd see thy blood warm when thou feel'st it cold.
Enter three or four LORDSAnd so of you, beauteous and lovely youth,
Exeunt ANTONY and CLEOPATRA, with the trainAnd so should you, to love things nothing worth.
Exeunt all but ENOBARBUS, AGRIPPA, MAECENASAnd that is this, and this with thee remains.
Re-enter WIDOW with HELENAAlarum. Enter ENOBARBUS
And that thou teachest how to make one twain,And their gross painting might be better used,
Between the campsAnd they are rich, and ransom all ill deeds.
Between the two campsAnd they shall live, and he in them still green.
Enter MARDIAN the eunuchAnd thou (all they) hast all the all of me.
Enter a MESSENGERAnd thou in this shalt find thy monument,
Enter the MESSENGER againAnd yet to times in hope, my verse shall stand
Re-enter ENOBARBUSAnd you must live drawn by your own sweet skill.
with eunuchs fanning herAlexandria. A monument
As he takes from you, I engraft you new.As high as learning, my rude ignorance.
Athens. ANTONY'S houseAs thou being mine, mine is thy good report.
CAESAR'S camp in EgyptAs thou being mine, mine is thy good report.
Enter ANTONY and CANIDIUSAs thus, mine eye's due is thy outward part,
Enter ANTONY and EROSAs with your shadow I with these did play.
Enter DIOMEDES, belowAwakes my heart, to heart's and eye's delight.
Enter EROS with armourBe not self-willed for thou art much too fair,
Enter PAROLLES guarded, andBecause I would not dull you with my song.
Enter a MESSENGERBeing fond on praise, which makes your praises worse.
Enter an armed SOLDIERBeing had to triumph, being lacked to hope.
Exit, PAROLLES guarded. A short alarum withinBlessed are you whose worthiness gives scope,
Re-enter LAFEU with HELENABut day doth daily draw my sorrows longer,
Rome. CAESAR'S houseBut do not so, I love thee in such sort,
the noise of a sea-fightA hill near Alexandria
But do not so, I love thee in such sort,ANTONY'S camp near Actium
But flowers distilled though they with winter meet,Alexandria. ANTONY'S camp
But heavy tears, badges of either's woe.Another part of the plain
But here's the joy, my friend and I are one,Athens. ANTONY'S house
But if the while I think on thee (dear friend)But if thou live remembered not to be,
Enter ANTONY and ENOBARBUSBut since he died and poets better prove,
Enter ANTONY and SCARUSBut since she pricked thee out for women's pleasure,
Enter DERCETAS and a guardBut sweet, or colour it had stol'n from thee.
Enter a SOLDIER of CAESAR'SBut thou art all my art, and dost advance
FIRST SOLDIER as interpreter'Why the Grecians sacked Troy?
But weep to have, that which it fears to lose.Alexandria. CAESAR'S camp
But were some child of yours alive that time,And gave this sentence then:
But what's so blessed-fair that fears no blot?Another part of the plain
But when your countenance filled up his line,But why thy odour matcheth not thy show,
CAESAR reading a letterBut you like none, none you for constant heart.
Enter ANTONY and OCTAVIABy praising him here who doth hence remain.
Enter CAPTAINS and soldiersCompared with loss of thee, will not seem so.
Enter CLEOPATRA, attendedDie single and thine image dies with thee.
Enter KING, HELENA, and ATTENDANTSEnter a company of soldiers
Ere you were born was beauty's summer dead.Enter another MESSENGER with a letter
Even that your pity is enough to cure me.Even to thy pure and most most loving breast.
There's yet one good in ten.'Fair, kind, and true, have often lived alone.
Was this King Priam's joy?'Enter ANTONY and VENTIDIUS
Finding the first conceit of love there bred,Enter CAESAR and his army
For I am shamed by that which I bring forth,Enter CLEOPATRA and ENOBARBUS
For I must ne'er love him whom thou dost hate.Enter OCTAVIA, with her train
For as the sun is daily new and old,Enter the MESSENGER as before
For fear of which, hear this thou age unbred,Enter three or four servitors
For nothing this wide universe I call,For sweetest things turn sourest by their deeds,
Re-enter ANTONY and ENOBARBUSFor that same groan doth put this in my mind,
Which men full true shall find:For thee watch I, whilst thou dost wake elsewhere,
Your cuckoo sings by kind.For thee, against my self I'll vow debate,
[The two companies separate and place themselvesFor thee, and for my self, no quiet find.
of PACORUS borne before him'Among nine bad if one be good,
For thy sweet love remembered such wealth brings,'Was this fair face the cause' quoth she
For truth proves thievish for a prize so dear.Alexandria. CLEOPATRA'S palace
For we which now behold these present days,Alexandria. CLEOPATRA's palace
From me far off, with others all too near.Alexandria. CLEOPATRA's palace
Give my love fame faster than Time wastes life,Alexandria. CLEOPATRA's palace
Have eyes to wonder, but lack tongues to praise.Among nine bad if one be good,
Hers by thy beauty tempting her to thee,Enter ANTONY With attendants
His beauty shall in these black lines be seen,FRENCH LORDS, with a TROOP OF SOLDIERS
How like Eve's apple doth thy beauty grow,Fond done, done fond,
I am to wait, though waiting so be hell,I can't communicate with people who take too long to respond
Under the walls of AlexandriaI send them back again and straight grow sad.
With that she sighed as she stood,I will not praise that purpose not to sell.
With that she sighed as she stood,If it be poisoned, 'tis the lesser sin,
[Music plays. ENOBARBUS places them hand in hand]If my slight muse do please these curious days,
[Pointing to the servant who carries off LEPIDUS]Alexandria. CLEOPATRA'S palace
If some suspect of ill masked not thy show,Alexandria. CLEOPATRA'S palace
If thy sweet virtue answer not thy show.CAESAR'S camp before Alexandria
In all external grace you have some part,Enter BERTRAM, LAFEU, and PAROLLES
In days long since, before these last so bad.Enter HELENA and the two FRENCH GENTLEMEN
In sleep a king, but waking no such matter.Exeunt all but LAFEU and PAROLLES who stay behind,
Incapable of more, replete with you,For I the ballad will repeat,
Kill me with spites yet we must not be foes.Lascivious grace, in whom all ill well shows,
Re-enter a SERVANT with THYREUSLeese but their show, their substance still lives sweet.
Your marriage comes by destiny,Alexandria. Before CLEOPATRA's palace
Lest the wise world should look into your moan,Enter CAESAR, AGRIPPA, and MAECENAS
Let them say more that like of hearsay well,Enter CAESAR, with his army, marching
Lilies that fester, smell far worse than weeds.Enter ENOBARBUS and EROS, meeting
Lo thus by day my limbs, by night my mind,Enter four or five of the guard of ANTONY
Look what is best, that best I wish in thee,Field of battle between the camps
Love is a babe, then might I not say soMake thee another self for love of me,
On board POMPEY'S galley, off MisenumCome, thou monarch of the vine,
Makes summer's welcome, thrice more wished, more rare.Cup us till the world go round!
Me for my dumb thoughts, speaking in effect.Cup us till the world go round,
Mine be thy love and thy love's use their treasure.Enter ANTONY and SCARUS, with their army
More flowers I noted, yet I none could see,Enter CAESAR, MAECENAS, and AGRIPPA
My grief lies onward and my joy behind.Enter CLEOPATRA, led by CHARMIAN and IRAS,
My love shall in my verse ever live young.Enter EUPHRONIUS, Ambassador from ANTONY
My most true mind thus maketh mine untrue.Enter HELENA in the dress of a pilgrim
No love toward others in that bosom sitsEnter, below, ANTONY, borne by the guard
Not blame your pleasure be it ill or well.In thy fats our cares be drown'd,
O him she stores, to show what wealth she had,O learn to read what silent love hath writ,
POMPEY, AGRIPPA, MAECENAS, ENOBARBUS, MENAS,O none but unthrifts, dear my love you know,
Plumpy Bacchus with pink eyne!O none, unless this miracle have might,
With thy grapes our hairs be crown'd.A sennet sounded. Enter CAESAR, ANTONY, LEPIDUS,
O sure I am the wits of former days,Enter CAESAR, ANTONY, LEPIDUS, and OCTAVIA
Or call it winter, which being full of care,Alarums. Enter ANTONY, and SCARUS wounded
Or else of thee this I prognosticate,Enter ANTONY, with a MESSENGER and attendants
Or gluttoning on all, or all away.Enter EUPHRONIUS, the Ambassador; with ANTONY
Or if they sing, 'tis with so dull a cheer,Alarum. Drums and trumpets. Enter AGRIPPA
Or if they sleep, thy picture in my sightEnter ANTONY and CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, IRAS,
Painting my age with beauty of thy days.Enter CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, IRAS, and ALEXAS
Pity me then dear friend, and I assure ye,Alarum. Enter ANTONY, again in a march; SCARUS
Pity the world, or else this glutton be,CANIDIUS marcheth with his land army one way
Praising thy worth, despite his cruel hand.Enter AGRIPPA at one door, ENOBARBUS at another
Presume not on thy heart when mine is slain,Enter CLEOPATRA, ENOBARBUS, CHARMIAN, and IRAS
Receiving nought by elements so slow,Flourish. Enter the DUKE OF FLORENCE, attended; two
Save breed to brave him, when he takes thee hence.Save that to die, I leave my love alone.
Trumpets sound. Enter ANTONY and EROS, a SOLDIERSave thou my rose, in it thou art my all.
over the stage, and TAURUS, the Lieutenant ofEnter VENTIDIUS, as it were in triumph, with SILIUS
Shall profit thee, and much enrich thy book.Flourish. Enter AGRIPPA, CAESAR, With DOLABELLA
She carved thee for her seal, and meant thereby,Away!
Since from thee going, he went wilful-slow,CAESAR, the other way. After their going in is heard
Since what he owes thee, thou thy self dost pay.Captain,
Since why to love, I can allege no cause.Enter ANTONY, CLEOPATRA, ENOBARBUS, CHARMIAN, IRAS,
Sings this to thee, 'Thou single wilt prove none'.Enter CAESAR, AGRIPPA, and MAECENAS, with his army;
So is my love still telling what is told.Enter CLEOPATRA and her maids aloft, with CHARMIAN
So long as men can breathe or eyes can see,Enter CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, IRAS, and MARDIAN
So long lives this, and this gives life to thee.Enter a CENTURION and his company; ENOBARBUS follows
So thou prevent'st his scythe, and crooked knife.Nile
So thou, thy self out-going in thy noon:So till the judgment that your self arise,
and other Romans, OFFICERS and soldiers; the dead bodySo true a fool is love, that in your will,
horse;Such is my love, to thee I so belong,
me,Suns of the world may stain, when heaven's sun staineth.
sorrow shootsSweet flattery, then she loves but me alone.
wars!Take heed (dear heart) of this large privilege,
with a rheum;Than both your poets can in praise devise.
within] So-Flourish. Enter ANTONY, CLEOPATRA, her LADIES, the train,
That I an accessary needs must be,It does from childishness. Can Fulvia die?
That all the world besides methinks are dead.Music plays. Enter two or three SERVANTS with a banquet
That beauty still may live in thine or thee.That for thy right, my self will bear all wrong.
made, you lose your city. It is not politic in the commonwealth'After my flame lacks oil, to be the snuff
That in black ink my love may still shine bright.'But yet' is as a gaoler to bring forth
That leaves look pale, dreading the winter's near.'I am conqueror of myself.' Thou art sworn, Eros,
That mine eye loves it and doth first begin.'I hate', from hate away she threw,
That on himself such murd'rous shame commits.'O, bless my brother!' Husband win, win brother,
That then I scorn to change my state with kings.'Say the firm Roman to great Egypt sends
The hardest knife ill-used doth lose his edge.'Stroy'd in dishonour.
The pain be mine, but thine shall be the praise.'Tis a commodity will lose the gloss with lying; the longer kept,
The soil is this, that thou dost common grow.'Tis a hard bondage to become the wife
The worst was this, my love was my decay.'Tis an unseason'd courtier; good my lord,
The worth of that, is that which it contains,'Tis bitter.
Their images I loved, I view in thee,'Tis but the shadow of a wife you see,
Theirs for their style I'll read, his for his love'.'Tis not my profit that does lead mine honour:
Then do thy office Muse, I teach thee how,'Tis sport to maul a runner.
Then give me welcome, next my heaven the best,'Tis the last service that I shall command you.
Then happy I that love and am beloved'Tis well th'art gone,
Then if he thrive and I be cast away,'Too young' and next year' and "Tis too early.'
Then lacked I matter, that enfeebled mine.'Twere pregnant they should square between themselves;
Then may I dare to boast how I do love thee,'Twill be two days ere I shall see you; so
Then others, for the breath of words respect,'Twixt these extremes at all.
Then thank him not for that which he doth say,'Twould burst at this. Captain I'll be no more;
Then thou alone kingdoms of hearts shouldst owe.'We blush that thou shouldst choose; but, be refused,
There lives more life in one of your fair eyes,'When from my finger you can get this ring,
Therefore like her, I sometime hold my tongue:'When he swears oaths, bid him drop gold, and take it;
These offices, so oft as thou wilt look,'em?
They draw but what they see, know not the heart.A Roman thought hath struck him. Enobarbus!
Thine by thy beauty being false to me.A balance more replete.
This thou perceiv'st, which makes thy love more strong,A better ear. Menas, I did not think
This thought is as a death which cannot chooseA blessed lottery to him.
This told, I joy, but then no longer glad,A brain that nourishes our nerves, and can
This were to be new made when thou art old,A braving war.
This wish I have, then ten times happy me.A bridegroom in my death, and run into't
Thou gav'st me thine not to give back again.A certainty, vouch'd from our cousin Austria,
Thou mayst be false, and yet I know it not.A charge too heavy for my strength; but yet
Thou shouldst print more, not let that copy die.A cistern for scal'd snakes! Go, get thee hence.
Thus do I pine and surfeit day by day,A counsellor, a traitress, and a dear;
Thus have I had thee as a dream doth flatter,A counterpoise, if not to thy estate
Thy end is truth's and beauty's doom and date.A diminution in our captain's brain
Thy unused beauty must be tombed with thee,A forked mountain, or blue promontory
Till then, not show my head where thou mayst prove me.A guide, a goddess, and a sovereign,
Tired with all these, from these would I be gone,A halter'd neck which does the hangman thank
To be death's conquest and make worms thine heir.A leaner action rend us. What's amiss,
To eat the world's due, by the grave and thee.A little I can read.
To give away your self, keeps your self still,A lover of thy drum, hater of love.                   Exeunt
To give full growth to that which still doth grow.A lying trophy; and as oft is dumb
To hear with eyes belongs to love's fine wit.A man who is the abstract of all faults
To leave poor me, thou hast the strength of laws,A mangled shadow. Perchance to-morrow
To love that well, which thou must leave ere long.A market-maid to Rome, and have prevented
To make him seem long hence, as he shows now.A master-leaver and a fugitive!
To show false Art what beauty was of yore.A meaner than myself; since I myself
To subjects worse have given admiring praise.A million moe, now lost- she, Eros, has
To that sweet thief which sourly robs from me.A modest one to bear me back again.
Towards thee I'll run, and give him leave to go.A morsel for a monarch; and great Pompey
Unlooked on diest unless thou get a son.A most unnoble swerving.
When that shall vade, by verse distills your truth.A mother, and a mistress, and a friend,
When tyrants' crests and tombs of brass are spent.A native slip to us from foreign seeds.
Where I may not remove nor be removed.A nobleness in record. But I will be
Where breath most breathes, even in the mouths of men.A nursery to our gentry, who are sick
Where cheeks need blood, in thee it is abused.A parcel of their fortunes, and things outward
Where time and outward form would show it dead.A phoenix, captain, and an enemy,
Which three till now, never kept seat in one.A poor physician's daughter my wife! Disdain
Which used lives th' executor to be.A poor physician's daughter-thou dislik'st
Whose speechless song being many, seeming one,A poor unlearned virgin, when the schools,
Wretched in this alone, that thou mayst take,A private man in Athens. This for him.
Yet do thy worst old Time: despite thy wrong,A seeming mermaid steers. The silken tackle
Yet eyes this cunning want to grace their art,A senseless help, when help past sense we deem.
Yet him for this, my love no whit disdaineth,A shrewd one to's.
Yet seemed it winter still, and you away,A shrewd turn, if she pleas'd.
You are so strongly in my purpose bred,A sister I bequeath you, whom no brother
You had a father, let your son say so.A soldier and his horse.
You live in this, and dwell in lovers' eyes.A space for farther travel.
You should live twice in it, and in my rhyme.A statue than a breather.
You still shall live (such virtue hath my pen)A strange invisible perfume hits the sense
You to your beauteous blessings add a curse,A stranger, no offender; and inform him
Your own glass shows you, when you look in it.A strumpet's boldness, a divulged shame,
as I just can't keep their trains of thought alive for thoseA tower'd citadel, a pendent rock,
extended periods of time.  Even quick responses should replyA traitor you do look like; but such traitors
have also received too many disks that cannot be formatted.A vapour sometime like a bear or lion,
it can be very difficult to read an Apple disk on an IBM.  IA very serious business calls on him.
option in RiceMail).  This is more difficult with paper.A wife of me, though there my hope be done.
thousands of lines of email I receive every day.  Even then,A workman in't.
under the "RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND" set forth above.A young man married is a man that's marr'd.
with the text of the messages they are answering (reply textAboard my galley I invite you all.
CompuServe: >internet:hart@.vmd.cso.uiuc.edu'Gainst death, and all-oblivious enmity
Absolute queen.'Had my friend's Muse grown with this growing age,
Acquaint my mother with my hate to her,'Thus far the miles are measured from thy friend.'
Acquire too high a fame when him we serve's away.'Tis not enough that through the cloud thou break,
Adieu till then; then fail not. You have won'Truth needs no colour with his colour fixed,
Admir'd Octavia. Great Mark Antony(A closet never pierced with crystal eyes)
Adoption strives with nature, and choice breeds(Like to the lark at break of day arising
Adore our errors, laugh at's while we strut(Making lascivious comments on thy sport)
Advise him.(Though words come hindmost) holds his rank before,
Affairs of Antony; there did dissuade*not* contain characters other than those intended by the
After he scores, he never pays the score.A crow that flies in heaven's sweetest air.
After well-ent'red soldiers, to returnA dearer birth than this his love had brought
Against a sworder! I see men's judgments areA god in love, to whom I am confined.
Against his liking. Think you it is so?A liquid prisoner pent in walls of glass,
Against our borrowing prayers.A loss in love that touches me more nearly.
Against the blown rose may they stop their noseA man in hue all hues in his controlling,
Against the flint and hardness of my fault,A quest of thoughts, all tenants to the heart,
Against the proclamation of thy passion,A third nor red, nor white, had stol'n of both,
Against your vain assault.A vengeful canker eat him up to death.
Age cannot wither her, nor custom staleA woman's face with nature's own hand painted,
Agrippa further speak.A woman's gentle heart but not acquainted
Ah, thou spell! Avaunt!A) YOU MAY (AND ARE ENCOURAGED) TO DISTRIBUTE ELECTRONIC AND
Alcides, thou mine ancestor, thy rage;ASCII.
All but new things disdain; whose judgments areAb usque Rheni limite
All his revenue.Above a mortal pitch, that struck me dead?
All is well ended if this suit be won,Admit impediments, love is not love
All length is torture. Since the torch is out,Advantage on the kingdom of the shore,
All little jealousies, which now seem great,Aesopiam trimetriam;
All men are bad and in their badness reign.After a thousand victories once foiled,
All my sad captains; fill our bowls once more;After my death (dear love) forget me quite,
All repetition. Let him not ask our pardon;Against confounding age's cruel knife,
All strange and terrible events are welcome,Against my love shall be as I am now
All that is virtuous-save what thou dislik'st,Against that time (if ever that time come)
All that is won and lost. Give me a kiss;Against that time do I ensconce me here
All the whole synod of them!Against that time when thou shalt strangely pass,
All there is thine.Against the stormy gusts of winter's day
All this the world well knows yet none knows well,Against the wrackful siege of batt'ring days,
All yet seems well; and if it end so meet,Against this coming end you should prepare,
All your true followers out.Against thy reasons making no defence.
All's Well that Ends Well. Still the fine's the crown.Ah do not, when my heart hath 'scaped this sorrow,
Already at my house.Ah wherefore with infection should he live,
Already, will their good thoughts call from him.Ah yet doth beauty like a dial hand,
Am I or that or this for what he'll utterAh, if thou issueless shalt hap to die,
Ambitious love hath so in me offendedAlack what poverty my muse brings forth,
Amiss to tumble on the bed of Ptolemy,Alas 'tis true, I have gone here and there,
An Antony, that I might do you serviceAlas why fearing of time's tyranny,
An argument that he is pluck'd, when hitherAll frailties that besiege all kinds of blood,
An armour all of gold; it was a king's.All men make faults, and even I in this,
An honourable trial.All mine was thine, before thou hadst this more:
An host of tongues; but let ill tidings tellAll these I better in one general best.
And Florence is denied before he comes;All tongues (the voice of souls) give thee that due,
And Fortune play upon thy prosperous helm,Although in me each part will be forgotten.
And I am all forgotten!Although our undivided loves are one:
And I beseech your Majesty to make itAlthough thou steal thee all my poverty:
And I had that which any inferior mightAn eye more bright than theirs, less false in rolling:
And I have heard Apollodorus carried-And 'gainst my self a lawful plea commence:
And I shall lose my life for want of language.And I am still with them, and they with thee.
And I will boot thee with what gift besideAnd I by this will be a gainer too,
And I'll be bid by thee.And I will comment upon that offence,
And I, an ass, am onion-ey'd. For shame!And I, hence fleeting, here remain with thee.
And Time that gave, doth now his gift confound.And aid me with that store of power you have
And all my soul, and all my every part;And all great fears, which now import their dangers,
And all the rest forgot for which he toiled:And all of you clapp'd up together in
And all things turns to fair, that eyes can see!And all the gods go with you! Upon your sword
And all those beauties whereof now he's kingAnd all the haunt be ours.- Come, Eros, Eros!
And all those friends which I thought buried.And all the honours that can fly from us
And almost thence my nature is subduedAnd all the secrets of our camp I'll show,
And art made tongue-tied by authority,And all the unlawful issue that their lust
And arts with thy sweet graces graced be.And all they foul that thy complexion lack.
And barren rage of death's eternal cold?And am well studied for a liberal thanks
And beauty making beautiful old rhyme,And angels offic'd all. I will be gone,
And being frank she lends to those are free:And answer 'Thanks.' I duly am inform'd
And both for my sake lay on me this cross,And answer me declin'd, sword against sword,
And brass eternal slave to mortal rage.And are by me with child,' etc. This is done.
And broils root out the work of masonry,And ask'd thee mercy for't.
And buds of marjoram had stol'n thy hair,And at that time he got his wife with child.
And burn the long-lived phoenix, in her blood,And at the port expect you.
And by a part of all thy glory live:And at this time most easy 'tis to do't,
And by addition me of thee defeated,And be as sweet as sharp. We must away;
And by and by clean starved for a look,And be perform'd to-night. The solemn feast
And by their verdict is determinedAnd be undone by 'em!                         Exit MESSENGER
And captive good attending captain ill.And blemish Caesar's triumph. Let him take thee
And chide thy beauty, and thy straying youth,And boarded her i' th' wanton way of youth.
And constant stars in them I read such artAnd both shall cease, without your remedy.
And darkly bright, are bright in dark directed.And bow'd his eminent top to their low ranks,
And delves the parallels in beauty's brow,And bring me how he takes my death. To th' monument!
And die as fast as they see others grow,And brokes with all that can in such a suit
And dig deep trenches in thy beauty's field,And burgonet of men. He's speaking now,
And do not drop in for an after-loss:And by a gem of women, to be abus'd
And do so love, yet when they have devised,And by the leave of my good lord the King,
And do whate'er thou wilt swift-footed TimeAnd call her hourly mistress. Who was with him?
And dost him grace when clouds do blot the heaven:And carry back to Sicily much tall youth
And dumb presagers of my speaking breast,And celebrate our drink?
And each (though enemies to either's reign)And cry 'Your will?' Have you no ears? I am
And each doth good turns now unto the other,And dare not speak their knowledge. Antony
And every fair from fair sometime declines,And death once dead, there's no more dying then.
And every fair with his fair doth rehearse,And deeper than oblivion do we bury
And every humour hath his adjunct pleasure,And did deserve his change. For what I have conquer'd
And folly (doctor-like) controlling skill,And do invite you to my sister's view,
And for a woman wert thou first created,And drink carouses to the next day's fate,
And for my sake even so doth she abuse me,And drown consideration.                              Exeunt
And for my self mine own worth do define,And earns a place i' th' story.
And for that riches where is my deserving?And ev'ry hair that's on 't, Helen, that's dead,
And for the peace of you I hold such strifeAnd ever welcome to us.
And for they looked but with divining eyes,And feast the army; we have store to do't,
And for this sin there is no remedy,And feel I am so most. O Antony,
And fortify your self in your decayAnd fertile every wish, a million.
And found it in thy cheek: he can affordAnd fight maliciously. For when mine hours
And found such fair assistance in my verse,And fighting foot to foot.
And from the forlorn world his visage hideAnd find your Grace in health.
And gilded honour shamefully misplaced,And finish all foul thoughts. O Antony,
And given grace a double majesty.And for his ordinary pays his heart
And gives thy pen both skill and argument.And for the contents' sake are sorry for our pains.
And hang more praise upon deceased I,And found her wondrous cold; but I sent to her,
And haply of our old acquaintance tell.And full of purpose.
And having climbed the steep-up heavenly hill,And gain by ills thrice more than I have spent.
And having thee, of all men's pride I boast.And get her leave to part. For not alone
And he that calls on thee, let him bring forthAnd give me mine again.
And heavily from woe to woe tell o'erAnd give true evidence to his love, which stands
And heavy ignorance aloft to fly,And give you to the gods.
And husband nature's riches from expense,And gives his potent regiment to a trull
And in fresh numbers number all your graces,And go to't with delight.
And in his thoughts of love doth share a part.And have my learning from some true reports
And in mine own love's strength seem to decay,And have my thanks for all.           Exeunt, hearing ANTONY
And in the praise thereof spends all his might,And he shall surety me. But for this lord
And in themselves their pride lies buried,And he will fill thy wishes to the brim
And in this change is my invention spent,And hear me speak a word.
And keep invention in a noted weed,And hellish obstinacy tie thy tongue,
And keep my drooping eyelids open wide,And helper to a husband. But, O strange men!
And kept unused the user so destroys it:And her quietus is to render thee.
And lace it self with his society?And his affairs come to me on the wind.
And life no longer than thy love will stay,And hoist thee up to the shouting plebeians;
And like enough thou know'st thy estimate,And hold our best advantage.                          Exeunt
And like unlettered clerk still cry Amen,And in our faults by lies we flattered be.
And live no more to shame nor me, nor you.And in our name, what she requires; add more,
And loathsome canker lives in sweetest bud.And in our sports my better cunning faints
And look upon my self and curse my fate,And is become the bellows and the fan
And losing her, my friend hath found that loss,And is enough for both.
And made my self a motley to the view,And is not like the sire. Honours thrive
And maiden virtue rudely strumpeted,And it appears he is belov'd of those
And make me travel forth without my cloak,And it grows fouler.
And make the earth devour her own sweet brood,And keep the turn of tippling with a slave,
And make time's spoils despised everywhere.And kings have been your fellows.
And many maiden gardens yet unset,And lack not to lose still. Thus, Indian-like,
And moan th' expense of many a vanished sight.And lawful meaning in a lawful act;
And my great mind most kingly drinks it up,And leave his master Antony. For this pains
And my sick muse doth give an other place.And leave his navy gazing.
And needy nothing trimmed in jollity,And let me buy your friendly help thus far,
And nothing stands but for his scythe to mow.And let the Queen know of our gests. To-morrow,
And of this book, this learning mayst thou taste.And look on their endeavour.                          Exeunt
And often is his gold complexion dimmed,And loves to grant, reprieve him from the wrath
And only herald to the gaudy spring,And made a gap in nature.
And our dear love lose name of single one,And made their bends adornings. At the helm
And patience tame to sufferance bide each check,And mak'st conjectural fears to come into me
And peace proclaims olives of endless age.And make the hearts of Romans serve your ends!
And perspective it is best painter's art.And make the wars alike against my stomach,
And place my merit in the eye of scorn,And make this haste as your own good proceeding,
And precious phrase by all the Muses filed.And make thy fortunes proud. The blow thou hadst
And proud of many, lives upon his gains?And make your peace with Caesar.
And prove thee virtuous, though thou art forsworn:And manifest experience had collected
And purest faith unhappily forsworn,And mock our eyes with air. Thou hast seen these signs;
And puts apparel on my tattered loving,And mock us with our bareness.
And right perfection wrongfully disgraced,And more thirsts after.
And sable curls all silvered o'er with white:And my appointments have in them a need
And says in him thy fair appearance lies.And my integrity ne'er knew the crafts
And scarcely greet me with that sun thine eye,And neither way inclines.
And see the brave day sunk in hideous night,And not a serpent's poison. Say our pleasure,
And shalt by fortune once more re-surveyAnd not be all day neither.                       Exit LAFEU
And simple truth miscalled simplicity,And not have spoke on't. In me 'tis villainy:
And so my patent back again is swerving.And now behold the meaning.
And steal dead seeming of his living hue?And now you should be as your mother was
And stops her pipe in growth of riper days:And of his old experience th' only darling,
And strength by limping sway disabledAnd on your finger in the night I'll put
And stretched metre of an antique song.And other of his conquer'd kingdoms,
And such a counterpart shall fame his wit,And our twelve thousand horse. We'll to our ship.
And summer's green all girded up in sheavesAnd palter in the shifts of lowness, who
And summer's lease hath all too short a date:And pleasure drown the brim.
And sweets grown common lose their dear delight.And plighter of high hearts! O that I were
And tender churl mak'st waste in niggarding:And poison it in the source, and the first stone
And that fresh blood which youngly thou bestow'st,And pray God's blessing into thy attempt.
And that in guess they measure by thy deeds,And put you in the catalogue of those
And that unfair which fairly doth excel:And put yourself under his shroud,
And that which governs me to go about,And quietness, grown sick of rest, would purge
And that your love taught it this alchemy?And rather muse than ask why I entreat you;
And the firm soil win of the watery main,And saved my life saying 'not you'.
And the sad augurs mock their own presage,And say 'Ah ha! Y'are caught.'
And then believe me, my love is as fair,And say 'God quit you!' be familiar with
And there reigns love and all love's loving parts,And say a soldier, Dian, told thee this:
And therefore art enforced to seek anew,And say'st it is not fit.
And therefore have I slept in your report,And seal'd between us.
And therefore mayst without attaint o'erlookAnd send to darkness all that stop me. Come,
And therefore to your fair no painting set,And serving you so long!
And this my hand, against my self uprear,And set thee by Jove's side. Yet come a little.
And thou away, the very birds are mute.And shall become you well, to entreat your captain
And thou present'st a pure unstained prime.And she is dead; which nothing, but to close
And though they be outstripped by every pen,And shortly comes to harvest.
And threescore year would make the world away:And show what we alone must think, which never
And to be praised of ages yet to be.And sinks most lamentably. Had our general
And to his palate doth prepare the cup.And snatch 'em up, as we take hares, behind.
And to his robbery had annexed thy breath,And so proceed accordingly.                           Exeunt
And to the most of praise add something more,And so rebel to judgment.
And to the painted banquet bids my heart:And so should you.
And tongues to be, your being shall rehearse,And soberly did mount an arm-gaunt steed,
And trouble deaf heaven with my bootless cries,And speak as loud as Mars. By Jupiter,
And under thee their poesy disperse.And still conclusion, shall acquire no honour
And wear their brave state out of memory.And such a twain can do't, in which I bind,
And weep afresh love's long since cancelled woe,And suffer'd my command.
And what is't but mine own when I praise thee?And sway our great designs!
And when a woman woos, what woman's son,And take in Toryne?- You have heard on't, sweet?
And with his presence grace impiety,And tell her she is thine; to whom I promise
And with old woes new wail my dear time's waste:And that at my bidding you could so stand up.
And worse essays proved thee my best of love.And that she has discharg'd. What thou wouldst do
And yet it may be said I loved her dearly,And that which most with you should safe my going,
And yet love knows it is a greater griefAnd that you fly them as you swear them lordship,
And yet methinks I have astronomy,And the Phoenicians go a-ducking; we
And yet this time removed was summer's time,And the ebb'd man, ne'er lov'd till ne'er worth love,
And you and love are still my argument:And the gods yield you for't!
And you but one, can every shadow lend:And then thou lov'st me for my name is Will.
And you in Grecian tires are painted new:And then when poisoned hours had bound me up
And you in every blessed shape we know.And thence this slander as I think proceeds.
And your sweet semblance to some other give.And therefore know how far I may be pitied.
And your true rights be termed a poet's rage,And therefore, goaded with most sharp occasions,
Anon permit the basest clouds to ride,And these breed honour. That is honour's scorn
Another time mine eye is my heart's guest,And these great tears grace his remembrance more
Are both with thee, wherever I abide,And these the showers to bring it on. Be cheerful.
Are vanishing, or vanished out of sight,And they have earn'd the waste. Poor Antony!          Exeunt
Are windows to my breast, where-through the sunAnd think to wed it, he is so above me.
Art left the prey of every vulgar thief.And this is all I have done. She's a fair creature;
As 'twixt a miser and his wealth is found.And thou art all my child. Towards Florence is he?
As I all other in all worths surmount.And thou shouldst tow me after. O'er my spirit
As I not for my self, but for thee will,And though I kill him not, I am the cause
As I'll my self disgrace, knowing thy will,And though I make this marriage for my peace,
As Philomel in summer's front doth sing,And though you think me poor, I am the man
As a decrepit father takes delight,And threats the throat of that his officer
As after sunset fadeth in the west,And throw between them all the food thou hast,
As an unperfect actor on the stage,And to imperial Love, that god most high,
As any mother's child, though not so brightAnd to proclaim it civilly were like
As easy might I from my self depart,And to this false plague are they now transferred.
As every alien pen hath got my use,And urge her to a present answer back;
As fast as objects to his beams assemble:And was a common gamester to the camp.
As fast as thou shalt wane so fast thou grow'st,And watch'd the time to shoot.
As from my soul which in thy breast doth lie:And we are women's men.
As if by some instinct the wretch did knowAnd we in negligent danger. Cheer your heart;
As interest of the dead, which now appear,And we must sleep. That thou depart'st hence safe
As on the finger of a throned queen,And we shall talk before we fight.
As soon as think the place where he would be.And welcome, welcome! Die where thou hast liv'd.
As tender nurse her babe from faring ill.And well am like to do, for I perceive
As the death-bed, whereon it must expire,And well deserv'd. Not helping, death's my fee;
As the perfumed tincture of the roses,And what impossibility would slay
As those gold candles fixed in heaven's air:And what they undid did.
As to behold desert a beggar born,And what thou think'st his very action speaks
As truth and beauty shall together thriveAnd what to your sworn counsel I have spoken
As victors of my silence cannot boast,And when we are put off, fall to their throats.
Askance and strangely: but by all above,And wherefore I am fled; write to the King
At first the very worst of fortune's might.And whine aloud for mercy. Take him hence.
Attending on his golden pilgrimage:And with our sprightly port make the ghosts gaze.
Ausonius nomen ItalumAnd with this healthful hand, whose banish'd sense
Authorizing thy trespass with compare,And with those hands that grasp'd the heaviest club
Ay me, but yet thou mightst my seat forbear,And word it, prithee, piteously. Hence, Mardian,
B) This license is subject to the conditions that you honorAnd wore us out of act. It much repairs me
Bare ruined choirs, where late the sweet birds sang.And worth it, with addition! But, fair soul,
Be absent from thy walks and in my tongue,And worthy shameful check it were, to stand
Be as thy presence is gracious and kind,And would not put my reputation now
Be scorned, like old men of less truth than tongue,And wrinkled deep in time? Broad-fronted Caesar,
Be thou the tenth Muse, ten times more in worthAnd writ as little beard.
Be where you list, your charter is so strong,And write to her a love-line.
Bearing the wanton burden of the prime,And yet I know him a notorious liar,
Bearing thy heart which I will keep so charyAnd yet I know not- thou didst hate her deadly,
Beauteous thou art, therefore to be assailed.And yet by heaven I think my love as rare,
Beauty no pencil, beauty's truth to lay:And yet thou wilt, for I being pent in thee,
Beauty o'er-snowed and bareness every where:And, after some dispatch in hand at court,
Beauty's effect with beauty were bereft,And, as the president of my kingdom, will
Because he needs no praise, wilt thou be dumb?And, breathless, pow'r breathe forth.
Before the golden tresses of the dead,And, having lost her breath, she spoke, and panted,
Before these bastard signs of fair were born,And, hearing your high Majesty is touch'd
Beggared of blood to blush through lively veins,And, hoodwink'd as thou art, will lead thee on
Being your slave what should I do but tend,And, look you, here's your letter. This it says:
Being your vassal bound to stay your leisure.And, with the rest full-mann'd, from th' head of Actium
Betwixt mine eye and heart a league is took,Another ring, that what in time proceeds
Borne on the bier with white and bristly beard:Answer his emptiness! Caesar, thou hast subdu'd
Both find each other, and I lose both twain,Antick'd us all. What needs more words? Good night.
Both grace and faults are loved of more and less:Antony yet.
Both truth and beauty on my love depends:Antony, Antony! Help, Charmian; help, Iras, help;
Bound for the prize of (all too precious) you,Appear there for a man. Speak not against it;
But I forbid thee one most heinous crime,Applauding our approach.                              Exeunt
But ah, thought kills me that I am not thoughtApprov'd so to your Majesty, may plead
But as the marigold at the sun's eye,Are all too dear for me. Lie they upon thy hand,
But as the riper should by time decease,Are in the field. A mighty strength they carry.
But be contented when that fell arrest,Are in thy vessel. Let me cut the cable;
But beauty's waste hath in the world an end,Are motives of more fancy; and, in fine,
But best is best, if never intermixed'?Are newly grown to love. The condemn'd Pompey,
But day by night and night by day oppressed.Are of a mind: he, that they cannot help him;
But do thy worst to steal thy self away,Are those that often have 'gainst Pompey fought;
But for his theft in pride of all his growthAre words and poor conditions, but unseal'd-
But for their virtue only is their show,Art turn'd the greatest liar.
But from thine eyes my knowledge I derive,As 'tis reported, for the King had married him
But he that writes of you, if he can tell,As 'tis reported, so.
But heaven in thy creation did decree,As 'tis with us that square our guess by shows;
But hope of orphans, and unfathered fruit,As Cleopatra this. But, sir, forgive me;
But if that flower with base infection meet,As I conceive the journey, be at th' Mount
But in the onset come, so shall I tasteAs I have said you did.
But let your love even with my life decay.As all impediments in fancy's course
But like a sad slave stay and think of noughtAs amorous of their strokes. For her own person,
But love, for love, thus shall excuse my jade,As ample as myself.
But makes antiquity for aye his page,As any she belied with false compare.
But not to tell of good, or evil luck,As captain shall. Simply the thing I am
But now my gracious numbers are decayed,As he shall like, to quit me. Urge it thou.
But out alack, he was but one hour mine,As heaven shall work in me for thine avail,
But reckoning time, whose millioned accidentsAs high as word, my deed shall match thy deed.
But sad mortality o'ersways their power,As his composure must be rare indeed
But since your worth (wide as the ocean is)As his own state and ours- 'tis to be chid
But that I hope some good conceit of thineAs his strong sides can volley.
But that is in my thought, whose love to youAs i' th' command of Caesar. I dare him therefore
But that so much of earth and water wrought,As if a god in hate of mankind had
But that thou none lov'st is most evident:As if his life lay on 't.
But that wild music burthens every bough,As if she sat in's heart; she says all men
But the defendant doth that plea deny,As if the world should cleave, and that slain men
But then begins a journey in my headAs in your royal speech.
But these particulars are not my measure,As is the morn-dew on the myrtle leaf
But things removed that hidden in thee lie.As it hath fated her to be my motive
But those same tongues that give thee so thine own,As it rain'd kisses.
But thou contracted to thine own bright eyes,As letting her pass so; had I spoke with her,
But thou, to whom my jewels trifles are,As low as she would wish it.
But thy eternal summer shall not fade,As mad in folly, lack'd the sense to know
But when I sleep, in dreams they look on thee,As matter whole you have not to make it with,
But when from highmost pitch with weary car,As my thoughts make thee, and as my farthest band
But when in thee time's furrows I behold,As notes whose faculties inclusive were
But when my glass shows me my self indeedAs nothing can unroot you.
But wherefore do not you a mightier wayAs oft it loses all. I will be gone.
But yet be blamed, if thou thy self deceivestAs often as I guess'd.
But you shall shine more bright in these contentsAs one near death to those that wish him live.
By adding one thing to my purpose nothing.As one that takes his leave. Mine honest friends,
By chance, or nature's changing course untrimmed:As she had made the overture, she ceas'd,
By children's eyes, her husband's shape in mind:As that which makes it.
By looking on thee in the living day,As thou affects.
By new unfolding his imprisoned pride.As thy auspicious mistress!
By oft predict that I in heaven find.As to a lover's bed. Come, then; and, Eros,
By seeing farther than the eye hath shown.As to have ask'd him pardon. Let this fellow
By that sweet ornament which truth doth give!As water is in water.
By those swift messengers returned from thee,As we rate boys who, being mature in knowledge,
By unions married do offend thine ear,As we'll direct her how 'tis best to bear it.
By wilful taste of what thy self refusest.As when mine empire was your fellow too,
Called to that audit by advised respects,As when thy father and myself in friendship
Calls back the lovely April of her prime,As with a woman. Come, you'll play with me, sir?
Can bring him to his sweet up-locked treasure,As you are now, for you are cold and stern;
Can make you live your self in eyes of men.As you did love, but as you fear'd him.
Can yet the lease of my true love control,As you owe to your wife.
Cannot dispraise, but in a kind of praise,As you shall give th' advice. By the fire
Cheered and checked even by the self-same sky:Ask him upon his oath if he does think
Clouds and eclipses stain both moon and sun,Assemble we immediate council. Pompey
Come daily to the banks, that when they see:Assist, good friends.
Come in the rearward of a conquered woe,At heel of that, defy him.
Comes home again, on better judgement making.At her life's rate.
Commit to these waste blanks, and thou shalt findAt least in my opinion.
Compare them with the bett'ring of the time,At market-price have bought.
Consumed with that which it was nourished by.Attend his further pleasure.
Could make me any summer's story tell:Authority melts from me. Of late, when I cried 'Ho!'
Counting no old thing old, thou mine, I thine,Away!                                                 Exeunt
Crawls to maturity, wherewith being crowned,Away, and for our flight.
Creating every bad a perfect bestAway, my Thetis!
Creep in 'twixt vows, and change decrees of kings,BOTH. Our hearts receive your warnings.
Crooked eclipses 'gainst his glory fight,BOTH. We'll take your offer kindly.                   Exeunt
Crowning the present, doubting of the rest?Bajazet's mule, if you prattle me into these perils.
Darkening thy power to lend base subjects light?Be bold you do so grow in my requital
Death's second self that seals up all in rest.Be bounteous at our meal.
Delights to peep, to gaze therein on thee;Be brooch'd with me. If knife, drugs, serpents, have
Describe Adonis and the counterfeit,Be ever known to patience. My dear'st sister!         Exeunt
Deserves the travail of a worthier pen,Be free and healthful- why so tart a favour
Desiring this man's art, and that man's scope,Be gone to-morrow; and be sure of this,
Despite of wrinkles this thy golden time.Be jolly, lords.
Devouring Time blunt thou the lion's paws,Be not offended, for it hurts not him
Die to themselves. Sweet roses do not so,Be not so holy-cruel. Love is holy;
Disdains the tillage of thy husbandry?Be nothing of our strife; if we contend,
Divert strong minds to the course of alt'ring things:Be strew'd before your feet!
Do in consent shake hands to torture me,Be there in person?
Do not so much as my poor name rehearse;Be this sweet Helen's knell. And now forget her.
Doing thee vantage, double-vantage me.Be you not troubled with the time, which drives
Dost thou desire my slumbers should be broken,Be't as our gods will have't! It only stands
Doth homage to his new-appearing sight,Bear hateful memory, poor Enobarbus did
Doth part his function, and is partly blind,Bear our hack'd targets like the men that owe them.
Doth spot the beauty of thy budding name!Bear thine eyes straight, though thy proud heart go wide.
Doth teach that case and that repose to sayBear us an errand to him.       Exeunt servants with THYREUS
Doubting the filching age will steal his treasure,Beat mine, inhoop'd, at odds. I will to Egypt;
Drawn after you, you pattern of all those.Beat th' approaching Caesar. But if we fail,
Drink up the monarch's plague this flattery?Because we brave her. Come.
Dulling my lines, and doing me disgrace.Become themselves in her, that the holy priests
Duty so great, which wit so poor as mineBecomes a fear, as being o'erpow'r'd. Therefore
Each changing place with that which goes before,Becomes his captain's captain; and ambition,
Each trifle under truest bars to thrust,Been what he knew himself, it had gone well.
Either not assailed, or victor being charged,Before I speak, too threat'ningly replies.
Entitled in thy parts, do crowned sit,Before I strike this bloody stroke, farewell.
Ere beauty's dead fleece made another gay:Before did satisfy you. If you'll patch a quarrel,
Eternal numbers to outlive long date.Before our army. Thy Pacorus, Orodes,
Even as when first I hallowed thy fair name.Before the gods my knee shall bow my prayers
Even for this, let us divided live,Before the sun shall see's, we'll spill the blood
Even in the eyes of all posterityBefore thy face repent!
Even of five hundred courses of the sun,Before you serve.
Even so my sun one early morn did shine,Before you, Lepidus.
Even such a beauty as you master now.Beg often our own harms, which the wise pow'rs
Even those that said I could not love you dearer,Beguil'd all spies.
Exceeded by the height of happier men.Beguil'd me to the very heart of loss.
Excuse not silence so, for't lies in thee,Beguiles the truer office of mine eyes?
Excusing thy sins more than thy sins are:Being an obstruct 'tween his lust and him.
Fair, kind, and true, is all my argument,Being barber'd ten times o'er, goes to the feast,
Fair, kind, and true, varying to other words,Being prepar'd for land.
Fandi Titianus artifex.Believe not all; or if you must believe,
Farewell! thou art too dear for my possessing,Believe not thy disdain, but presently
Featured like him, like him with friends possessed,Believe't- till I weep too.
Feed'st thy light's flame with self-substantial fuel,Belong to Egypt. Good now, play one scene
Feeds on the rarities of nature's truth,Bequeathed down from many ancestors;
Find no determination, then you wereBequeathed down from many ancestors;
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,Best to preserve it. If I lose mine honour,
Flatter the mountain tops with sovereign eye,Bestow'd his lips on that unworthy place,
For I impair not beauty being mute,Better to leave undone than by our deed
For all that beauty that doth cover thee,Between her brother and Mark Antony.
For all the day they view things unrespected,Between her heart and lips. She rend'red life,
For as you were when first your eye I eyed,Betwixt us as the cement of our love
For at a frown they in their glory die.Beyond the mark of thought, and the high gods,
For beauty's pattern to succeeding men.Bid you Alexas
For bending all my loving thoughts on thee,Bless her when she is riggish.
For blunting the fine point of seldom pleasure.Bless him at home in peace, whilst I from far
For canker vice the sweetest buds doth love,Bless this unworthy husband? He cannot thrive,
For every vulgar paper to rehearse?Blessing upon your vows; and in your bed
For having traffic with thy self alone,Bliss in our brows' bent, none our parts so poor
For how do I hold thee but by thy granting,Bocchus, the king of Libya; Archelaus
For if it see the rud'st or gentlest sight,Both as the same, or rather ours the elder-
For it depends upon that love of thine.Both suffer under this complaint we bring,
For it no form delivers to the heartBoth what by sea and land I can be able
For never-resting time leads summer onBreed scrupulous faction; the hated, grown to strength,
For nimble thought can jump both sea and land,Bring him again: the Jack of Caesar's shall
For no man well of such a salve can speak,Bring in the admiration, that we with the
For precious friends hid in death's dateless night,Bring me word how tall she is.- Pity me, Charmian,
For shame deny that thou bear'st love to anyBrings in the champion Honour on my part
For she hath no exchequer now but his,Burn the great sphere thou mov'st in! Darkling stand
For slander's mark was ever yet the fair,Burn'd on the water. The poop was beaten gold;
For still temptation follows where thou art.But 'tis no matter; thou shalt bring him to me
For such a time do I now fortifyBut 'twould offend him; and in his offence
For summer and his pleasures wait on thee,But Antony's hath triumph'd on itself.
For term of life thou art assured mine,But I do wash his name out of my blood,
For that sweet odour, which doth in it live:But I had rather fast from all four days
For then despite of space I would be brought,But I shall lose the grounds I work upon.
For then my thoughts (from far where I abide)But I will eat, and drink, and sleep as soft
For there can live no hatred in thine eye,But accidents unpurpos'd. Draw, and come.
For thou art so possessed with murd'rous hate,But bid farewell, and go. When you sued staying,
For thou not farther than my thoughts canst move,But comforts we despise; our size of sorrow,
For through the painter must you see his skill,But conquer'd merely.
For thy neglect of truth in beauty dyed?But do not speak to me. Lead me to my chamber.        Exeunt
For to no other pass my verses tend,But fearing since how it might work, hath sent
For to thy sensual fault I bring in sense,But first, I beg my pardon: the young lord
For what care I who calls me well or ill,But found no cure, the bath for my help lies,
For when these quicker elements are goneBut give me leave to try success, I'd venture
For where is she so fair whose uneared wombBut give thyself unto my sick desires,
For whether beauty, birth, or wealth, or wit,But goers backward.
For who's so dumb that cannot write to thee,But here comes Antony.
For you in me can nothing worthy prove.But in my bosom shall she never come
From fairest creatures we desire increase,But know I think, and think I know most sure,
From hands of falsehood, in sure wards of trust!But knows of him no more. My dearest madam,
From hence your memory death cannot take,But lend and give where she is sure to lose;
From his low tract and look another way:But let determin'd things to destiny
From limits far remote, where thou dost stay,But let it be. Bring me to Antony.
From sullen earth) sings hymns at heaven's gate,But let it be; I am quickly ill and well-
From thee, the pleasure of the fleeting year!But let the world rank me in register
From this vile world with vilest worms to dwell:But let's about it.                                   Exeunt
From thy behaviour, beauty doth he giveBut like a common and an outward man
From whence at pleasure thou mayst come and part,But love hate on for now I know thy mind,
From where thou art, why should I haste me thence?But may not be so credulous of cure,
From you have I been absent in the spring,But more of this hereafter. You, Diana,
Full many a glorious morning have I seen,But most it is presumption in us when
Gentle thou art, and therefore to be won,But must condemn it now. Desist, and drink.
Gilding pale streams with heavenly alchemy:But my intents are fix'd, and will not leave me.        Exit
Gilding the object whereupon it gazeth,But never hope to know why I should marry her.
Give not a windy night a rainy morrow,But never tax'd for speech. What heaven more will,
Give warning to the world that I am fledBut now 'tis made an H.
Giving him aid, my verse astonished.But now he's gone, and my idolatrous fancy
Gored mine own thoughts, sold cheap what is most dear,But on us both did haggish age steal on,
Grant if thou wilt, thou art beloved of many,But one to dance with. By heaven, I'll steal away.
Great princes' favourites their fair leaves spread,But only she; and she deserves a lord
Hang on such thorns, and play as wantonly,But pay me terms of honour, cold and sickly
Haply I think on thee, and then my state,But pray you stir no embers up. Here comes
Happy to have thy love, happy to die!But puts it off to a compell'd restraint;
Harsh, featureless, and rude, barrenly perish:But rather make you thank your pains for it.
Hast thou the master mistress of my passion,But say I could not help it.
Hath been before, how are our brains beguiled,But she is arm'd for him, and keeps her guard
Hath dear religious love stol'n from mine eye,But since the cuckoo builds not for himself,
Hath motion, and mine eye may be deceived.But since you have made the days and nights as one,
Hath put a spirit of youth in every thing:But soon that war had end, and the time's state
Hath travelled on to age's steepy night,But such a one, thy vassal, whom I know
Have added feathers to the learned's wing,But take the High'st to witness. Then, pray you, tell me:
Have from the forests shook three summers' pride,But tell me then, 'tis so; for, look, thy cheeks
He lends thee virtue, and he stole that word,But that I am your most obedient servant.
He nor that affable familiar ghostBut that I know them. Do they charge me further?
He of tall building, and of goodly pride.But that your daughter, ere she seems as won,
He robs thee of, and pays it thee again,But that your trespass now becomes a fee,
Hearing you praised, I say 'tis so, 'tis true,But the plain single vow that is vow'd true.
Herein lives wisdom, beauty, and increase,But thence I learn and find the lesson true,
Hiding thy brav'ry in their rotten smoke?But there's no goodness in thy face. If Antony
Him in thy course untainted do allow,But this is not the best. Look, prithee, Charmian,
His rider loved not speed being made from thee:But till the troops come by,
His tender heir might bear his memory:But was a race of heaven. They are so still,
Holds in perfection but a little moment.But we keep whole by land. This speed of Caesar's
How can I then be elder than thou art?But what at full I know, thou know'st no part;
How can I then return in happy plightBut what indeed is honest to be done.
How can my muse want subject to inventBut when we in our viciousness grow hard-
How careful was I when I took my way,But when you are well pleas'd.
How far I toil, still farther off from thee.But with the word the time will bring on summer,
How far a modern quill doth come too short,But, I your daughter, he must be my brother?
How heavy do I journey on the way,But, first or last, your fine Egyptian cookery
How like a winter hath my absence beenBut, he away, 'tis noble.
How many a holy and obsequious tearBut, if I help, what do you promise me?
How many gazers mightst thou lead away,But, like a timorous thief, most fain would steal
How many lambs might the stern wolf betray,But, my good lord, 'tis thus: will you be cur'd
How much more praise deserved thy beauty's use,But, riddle-like, lives sweetly where she dies!
How sweet and lovely dost thou make the shame,But, sirrah, mark, we use
How to divide the conquest of thy sight,By any desperate change. My more particular,
How with this rage shall beauty hold a plea,By any token of presumptuous suit,
How would (I say) mine eyes be blessed made,By certain scales i' th' pyramid; they know
How would thy shadow's form, form happy show,By duty ruminated.
Hung with the trophies of my lovers gone,By him and by this woman here what know you?
I all alone beweep my outcast state,By laying defects of judgment to me; but
I cannot blame thee, for my love thou usest,By looking back what I have left behind
I do forgive thy robbery gentle thiefBy losing of our prayers.
I found (or thought I found) you did exceed,By love's own sweet constraint, and will for ever
I grant (sweet love) thy lovely argumentBy my old beard,
I grant thou wert not married to my muse,By one that looks on feeders?
I have no precious time at all to spend;By our remembrances of days foregone,
I love not less, though less the show appear,By revolution low'ring, does become
I make my love engrafted to this store:By sea and land I'll fight. Or I will live,
I may not evermore acknowledge thee,By sea and land, supplying every stage
I must attend, time's leisure with my moan.By self-example mayst thou be denied.
I must each day say o'er the very same,By self-unable motion; therefore dare not
I never saw that you did painting need,By sending me a letter? Read it again.
I see descriptions of the fairest wights,By such a day and hour.
I see their antique pen would have expressed,By th' height, the lowness, or the mean, if dearth
I see, a better state to me belongsBy th' luckiest stars in heaven; and, would your honour
I should in thought control your times of pleasure,By th' second hour i' th' morn.
I sigh the lack of many a thing I sought,By the discandying of this pelleted storm,
I summon up remembrance of things past,By the good aid that I of you shall borrow,
I tell the day to please him thou art bright,By the misprizing of a maid too virtuous
I think good thoughts, whilst other write good words,By this same coxcomb that we have i' th' wind,
I was not sick of any fear from thence.By what did here befall me. Your wife and brother
I will acquaintance strangle and look strange:By wond'ring how thou took'st it.
If I could write the beauty of your eyes,Caesar and Antony have ever won
If I lose thee, my loss is my love's gain,Caesar and Antony shall well greet together.
If all were minded so, the times should cease,Caesar has taken Toryne.
If any, be a satire to decay,Caesar himself has work, and our oppression
If from thy self, to store thou wouldst convert:Caesar sits down in Alexandria, where
If it were filled with your most high deserts?Caesar to Antony. Let the old ruffian know
If like a lamb he could his looks translate!Caesarion, whom they call my father's son,
If not from my love's breath? The purple prideCall forth my household servants; let's to-night
If ten of thine ten times refigured thee:Call in the messengers. As I am Egypt's Queen,
If the dull substance of my flesh were thought,Call on him for't! But to confound such time
If the true concord of well-tuned sounds,Came on my guard, and at thy tent is now
If there be nothing new, but that which is,Came there for cure and this by that I prove,
If thinking on me then should make you woe.Can equally move with them. Provide your going;
If thou couldst answer 'This fair child of mineCan from the lap of Egypt's widow pluck
If thou survive my well-contented day,Can never be so equal that your love
If thou wilt leave me, do not leave me last,Can woman me unto 't. Where is my son, I pray you?
If time have any wrinkle graven there,Cannot endure my absence.
In gentle numbers time so idly spent,Cannot make better note.
In him those holy antique hours are seen,Carries beyond belief.
In many's looks, the false heart's historyCarries no favour in't but Bertram's.
In me thou seest the glowing of such fire,Casaer hath hang'd him. Canidius and the rest
In me thou seest the twilight of such day,Cast on my noble father.
In my love's veins thou hast too grossly dyed.Chain mine arm'd neck. Leap thou, attire and all,
In one of thine, from that which thou departest,Chief factors for the gods: I do not know
In other accents do this praise confoundChiefly i' the world; more laugh'd at that I should
In others' works thou dost but mend the style,Choose thou thy husband, and I'll pay thy dower;
In our two loves there is but one respect,Choose your own company, and command what cost
In polished form of well refined pen.Claps on his sea-wing, and, like a doting mallard,
In praise of ladies dead, and lovely knights,Cleopatra and himself in chairs of gold
In process of the seasons have I seen,Cleopatra's health to drink.
In sequent toil all forwards do contend.Clock to itself, knew the true minute when
In singleness the parts that thou shouldst bear:Cold wisdom waiting on superfluous folly.
In so profound abysm I throw all careCome here for physic.
In tender embassy of love to thee,Come hither, sir.
In thee thy summer ere thou be distilled:Come hither, sir.
In thy soul's thought (all naked) will bestow it:Come on; thou art granted space.
In true plain words, by thy true-telling friend.Come, Menas.                                          Exeunt
In whose confine immured is the store,Come, down into the boat.
In winged speed no motion shall I know,Come, good fellow, put mine iron on.
Incertainties now crown themselves assured,Come, sirrah.                                         Exeunt
Increasing store with loss, and loss with store.Come, your lord calls!
Injurious distance should not stop my way,Comes dear'd by being lack'd. This common body,
Intend a zealous pilgrimage to thee,Command me.
Internet:  72600.2026@compuserve.comCommend me to my kinsmen and my son. This is not much.
Is but the seemly raiment of my heart,Commend the paper to his gracious hand;
Is from the book of honour razed quite,Commend unto his lips thy favouring hand-
Is it for fear to wet a widow's eye,Conferr'd by testament to th' sequent issue,
Is it thy spirit that thou send'st from theeConfess 'twas hers, and by what rough enforcement
Is it thy will, thy image should keep openConfess it, th' one to th' other; and thine eyes
Is poorly imitated after you,Contempt his scornful perspective did lend me,
Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange.Contend for empire in thee, and thy goodness
It is my love that keeps mine eye awake,Continues still a Jove.                                 Exit
It is so grounded inward in my heart.Corrupt the tender honour of a maid;
Just to the time, not with the time exchanged,Corrupted honest men! Dispatch. Enobarbus!            Exeunt
Kind is my love to-day, to-morrow kind,Cosmo, Lodowick, and Gratii, two hundred fifty each; mine own
Kissing with golden face the meadows green;Could not with graceful eyes attend those wars
Knowing a better spirit doth use your name,Could reach them: I have seen a medicine
Lean penury within that pen doth dwell,Count Rousillon a widower; his vows are forfeited to me, and my
Leaving thee living in posterity?Crack thy frail case. Apace, Eros, apace.-
Lest I (too much profane) should do it wronk:Creaking my shoes on the plain masonry,
Lest my bewailed guilt should do thee shame,Crying 'That's good that's gone.' Our rash faults
Let him but copy what in you is writ,Dead Caesar's trencher. Nay, you were a fragment
Let me confess that we two must be twain,Dead though she be, she feels her young one kick;
Let me not to the marriage of true mindsDeadly divorce step between me and you!
Let not my love be called idolatry,Dealt on lieutenantry, and no practice had
Let this sad interim like the ocean beDear almost as his life; which gratitude
Let those who are in favour with their stars,Dear my lord, pardon! I dare not,
Let those whom nature hath not made for store,Dear sir, to my endeavours give consent;
Lifts up his burning head, each under eyeDear sovereign, pardon to me.
Like a deceived husband, so love's face,Debate it at their leisure. Welcome, Count;
Like as the waves make towards the pebbled shore,Debauch'd on every tomb, on every grave
Like feeble age he reeleth from the day,Defiles the pitchy night. So lust doth play
Like him that travels I return again,Demand the like.
Like stones of worth they thinly placed are,Demurely wake the sleepers. Let us bear him
Like widowed wombs after their lords' decease:Demuring upon me. But come, come, Antony-
Lo in the orient when the gracious lightDeny us for our good; so find we profit
Look in thy glass and tell the face thou viewest,Derived from the ancient Capilet.
Look in your glass and there appears a face,Desires this ring; appoints him an encounter;
Look what an unthrift in the world doth spendDestroy our friends, and after weep their dust;
Look what thy memory cannot contain,Destroyed in such a shape.
Look whom she best endowed, she gave thee more;Detain no jot, I charge thee. Write to him-
Looking on darkness which the blind do see.Determine this great war in single fight!
Lord of my love, to whom in vassalageDetest my baseness. I, that with my sword
Loving offenders thus I will excuse ye,Did ever in so true a flame of liking
Made old offences of affections new.Did ever love so dearly. Let her live
Make answer Muse, wilt thou not haply say,Did famine follow; whom thou fought'st against,
Make glad and sorry seasons as thou fleet'st,Did gibe my missive out of audience.
Make sweet some vial; treasure thou some place,Did hang a salt fish on his hook, which he
Make war upon this bloody tyrant Time?Did lack a parallel; yet, for all that,
Makes black night beauteous, and her old face new.Did pocket up my letters, and with taunts
Making a couplement of proud compareDid practise on my state, your being in Egypt
Making a famine where abundance lies,Did show ourselves i' th' field; and to that end
Making his style admired every where.Did to his Majesty, his mother, and his lady,
Making no summer of another's green,Did urge me in his act. I did inquire it,
Making their tomb the womb wherein they grew?Did violate so itself.
Mark how one string sweet husband to another,Did you too much disquiet. For that you must
Mark how with my neglect I do dispense.Dido and her Aeneas shall want troops,
May make seem bare, in wanting words to show it;Discipled of the bravest. He lasted long;
May still seem love to me, though altered new:Discredit my authority with yours,
Methinks no face so gracious is as mine,Disgrace and horror, that, on my command,
Might I not then say 'Now I love you best,'Dispatch the most convenient messenger.
Mine appetite I never more will grindDissolve my life! The next Caesarion smite!
Mine eye and heart are at a mortal war,Distract your army, which doth most consist
Mine eye hath played the painter and hath stelled,Distracted clouds give way; so stand thou forth;
Mine eye well knows what with his gust is 'greeing,Divide me from your bosom.
Mine eye, my heart thy picture's sight would bar,Do as I bid you.- Where's this cup I call'd for?
Mine eyes have drawn thy shape, and thine for meDo bravely, horse; for wot'st thou whom thou mov'st?
Mine own self-love quite contrary I read:Do draw the inward quality after them,
Mine own true love that doth my rest defeat,Do hear what we do.
More sharp to me than spurring to his side,Do my sighs stream. Sir, will you hear my suit?
More than that tongue that more hath more expressed.Do not believe him. o, behold this ring,
Most true it is, that I have looked on truthDo not throw from you. And you, my lords, farewell;
Most worthy comfort, now my greatest grief,Do something mingle with our younger brown, yet ha' we
Much liker than your painted counterfeit:Do strongly speak to us; but the letters to
Music to hear, why hear'st thou music sadly?Do thee all rights of service.
My body is the frame wherein 'tis held,Do thine own fortunes that obedient right
My bonds in thee are all determinate.Do we shake hands. All come to this? The hearts
My glass shall not persuade me I am old,Do wrong to none; be able for thine enemy
My heart doth plead that thou in him dost lie,Does conquer him that did his master conquer,
My heart, mine eye the freedom of that right,Does pay thy labour richly. Go.                 Exit MARDIAN
My heavy eyelids to the weary night?Does pity, as constrained blemishes,
My life being made of four, with two alone,Doth to our rose of youth rightly belong;
My life hath in this line some interest,Down thy ill-uttering throat.
My love is strengthened though more weak in seeming,Draw after her. Pardon what I have spoke;
My love looks fresh, and death to me subscribes,Draw lots who shall begin.
My most full flame should afterwards burn clearer,Draw that thy honest sword, which thou hast worn
My name be buried where my body is,Dream of impediment! Let me have thy hand.
My saucy bark (inferior far to his)Drive him to Rome. 'Tis time we twain
My self corrupting salving thy amiss,Drop in my neck; as it determines, so
My spirit is thine the better part of me,Drugs poison him that so feil sick of you.
My sweet love's beauty, though my lover's life.Drunkenness is his best virtue, for he will be swine-drunk; and
My tongue-tied muse in manners holds her still,Duke hath offered him letters of commendations to the King.
My verse alone had all thy gentle grace,Duke, done my adieu with his nearest; buried a wife, mourn'd for
Naming thy name, blesses an ill report.Durst make too bold herald of my tongue;
Nativity once in the main of light,ENOBARBUS. [Aside to CLEOPATRA] To make his followers weep.
Nature's bequest gives nothing but doth lend,Each heart in Rome does love and pity you;
Nay if you read this line, remember not,Each man's like mine; you have shown all Hectors.
Neither in inward worth nor outward fairEach minute some.                                     Exeunt
Never believe though in my nature reigned,Early though't be, have on their riveted trim,
No bitterness that I will bitter think,Edge, sting, or operation, I am safe.
No longer mourn for me when I am dead,Effect in an Earthly Actor.'
No longer yours, than you your self here live,Either both or none.
No love, my love, that thou mayst true love call,Else Paris, and the medicine, and the King,
No matter then although my foot did standEmbowell'd of their doctrine, have let off
No more be grieved at that which thou hast done,End ere I do begin.
No praise to thee, but what in thee doth live.Endure a further view.
No shape so true, no truth of such account,Enough to fetch him in. See it done;
No, neither he, nor his compeers by nightEnter the city, clip your wives, your friends,
None else to me, nor I to none alive,Enter, with drum and colours, BERTRAM, PAROLLES, and the
Nor Mars his sword, nor war's quick fire shall burn:Enthron'd i' th' market-place, did sit alone,
Nor can I fortune to brief minutes tell;Equality of two domestic powers
Nor can thy shame give physic to my grief,Ere I can perfect mine intents, to kneel.
Nor dare I chide the world-without-end hour,Ere the ninth hour, I drunk him to his bed,
Nor dare I question with my jealous thought,Ere they can hide their levity in honour.
Nor did I wonder at the lily's white,Ere twice in murk and occidental damp
Nor double penance to correct correction.Ere twice the horses of the sun shall bring
Nor draw no lines there with thine antique pen,Eros!- I come, my queen.- Eros!- Stay for me;
Nor gates of steel so strong but time decays?Err in bestowing it.
Nor gives to necessary wrinkles place,Eternity was in our lips and eyes,
Nor his own vision holds what it doth catch:Even so it was with me when I was young.
Nor it nor no remembrance what it was.Even such a body. Here I am Antony;
Nor lose possession of that fair thou ow'st,Even this repays me.
Nor my beloved as an idol show,Even till a Lethe'd dullness-
Nor praise the deep vermilion in the rose,Even to falling. Give him no breath, but now
Nor services to do till you require.Even with his pestilent scythe.     Exeunt all but ENOBARBUS
Nor shall death brag thou wand'rest in his shade,Ever a friend whose thoughts more truly labour
Nor think the bitterness of absence sour,Ever love Caesar so?
Nor thou with public kindness honour me,Evils enow to darken all his goodness.
Not from the stars do I my judgement pluck,Exceeds what we expected.                             Exeunt
Not making worse what nature made so clear,Exception bid him speak, and at this time
Not marble, nor the gilded monumentsExempted be from me the arrogance
Not mine own fears, nor the prophetic soul,Expected. Since he went from Egypt 'tis
Not that the summer is less pleasant nowExpecting absent friends. As thou lov'st her,
Nothing sweet boy, but yet like prayers divine,Experience, manhood, honour, ne'er before
Now all is done, have what shall have no end,Expire before their fashions.' This he wish'd.
Now counting best to be with you alone,Extended Asia from Euphrates,
Now is the time that face should form another,Extended or contracted all proportions
Now proud as an enjoyer, and anonEye well to you. Your honour calls you hence;
Now see what good turns eyes for eyes have done,Fair maid, send forth thine eye. This youthful parcel
Now stand you on the top of happy hours,Faith, yes:
Now while the world is bent my deeds to cross,Fall on thy head! Farewell. My lord,
Now with the drops of this most balmy time,Fall, when love please. Marry, to each but one!
O 'tis the first, 'tis flattery in my seeing,Fare thee well, dame, whate'er becomes of me.
O absence what a torment wouldst thou prove,Fare you well, my lord; and believe this of me: there can be no
O blame me not if I no more can write!Farewell!                                        Exit HELENA
O carve not with thy hours my love's fair brow,Feeds beast as man. The nobleness of life
O change thy thought, that I may change my mind,Find fairer fortune, if you ever wed!
O fearful meditation, where alack,First tried our soldiership. He did look far
O for my sake do you with Fortune chide,Flies where you bid it, I find that she which late
O give thy self the thanks if aught in me,Fly off our loves again!
O how I faint when I of you do write,Fly with false aim; move the still-piecing air,
O how much more doth beauty beauteous seem,Follow his chariot, like the greatest spot
O how shall summer's honey breath hold out,Follow me and receive't.                              Exeunt
O how thy worth with manners may I sing,Follow me close; I'll bring you to't. Adieu.
O if (I say) you look upon this verse,Followed thy heels.
O in what sweets dost thou thy sins enclose!For 'tis a studied, not a present thought,
O know sweet love I always write of you,For I by vow am so embodied yours
O lest the world should task you to recite,For I can guess that by thy honest aid
O lest your true love may seem false in this,For I have gained by't.
O let me suffer (being at your beck)For I have sworn thee fair, and thought thee bright,
O let me true in love but truly write,For I have sworn thee fair: more perjured I,
O let my looks be then the eloquence,For I spake to you for your comfort, did desire you
O never say that I was false of heart,For Paris, was it? Speak.
O no, thy love though much, is not so great,For a fair victory.
O that record could with a backward look,For amplest credence.
O that you were your self, but love you areFor being yare about him.
O then vouchsafe me but this loving thought,For breathing and exploit.
O therefore love be of thyself so wary,For count of this, the Count's a fool, I know it,
O truant Muse what shall be thy amends,For doughty-handed are you, and have fought
O what a happy title do I find,For fear and doting. Friends, be gone; you shall
O what a mansion have those vices got,For general sovereignty; and that he will'd me
O what excuse will my poor beast then find,For he hath laid strange courtesies and great
O'ercharged with burthen of mine own love's might:For idleness itself.
Of bird, of flower, or shape which it doth latch,For loving where you do; but if yourself,
Of different flowers in odour and in hue,For my respects are better than they seem,
Of faults concealed, wherein I am attainted:For poor'st diminutives, for doits, and let
Of hand, of foot, of lip, of eye, of brow,For present parting; only he desires
Of his quick objects hath the mind no part,For private stomaching.
Of his self-love to stop posterity?For quick accumulation of renown,
Of more delight than hawks and horses be:For so he calls me. Now I feed myself
Of mouthed graves will give thee memory,For speedy aid; wherein our dearest friend
Of my dull bearer, when from thee I speed,For such a business; therefore am I found
Of others' voices, that my adder's sense,For such a petty war; his soldiership
Of plagues, of dearths, or seasons' quality,For that is her demand, and know her business?
Of princes shall outlive this powerful rhyme,For the contempt of empire.
Of public honour and proud titles boast,For the main soldier; whose quality, going on,
Of the wide world, dreaming on things to come,For they have entertained cause enough
Of their fair subject, blessing every book.For this is from the present- how you take
Of their sweet deaths, are sweetest odours made:For thou mayst see a sunshine and a hail
Of this our time, all you prefiguring,For thy good valour. Come thee on.
Of thy fair health, recounting it to me.For we are old, and on our quick'st decrees
On Helen's cheek all art of beauty set,For what his eyes eat only.
On newer proof, to try an older friend,For what you seem to fear. So the gods keep you,
On your broad main doth wilfully appear.For when I am reveng'd upon my charm,
One blushing shame, another white despair:For which myself, the ignorant motive, do
One thing expressing, leaves out difference.For with the dark, poor thief, I'll steal away.         Exit
Or (being wrecked) I am a worthless boat,For you have show'd me that which well approves
Or I shall live your epitaph to make,Forborne the getting of a lawful race,
Or any of these all, or all, or moreForgive me in thine own particular,
Or as sweet-seasoned showers are to the ground;Forgive my fearful sails! I little thought
Or as the wardrobe which the robe doth hide,Fortune and Antony part here; even here
Or at your hand th' account of hours to crave,Fortune's mood, and smell somewhat strong of her strong
Or captain jewels in the carcanet.Four feasts are toward.
Or durst inhabit on a living brow:France is a stable; we that dwell in't jades;
Or else receiv'st with pleasure thine annoy?Frank nature, rather curious than in haste,
Or from their proud lap pluck them where they grew:French crown for your taffety punk, as Tib's rush for Tom's
Or heart in love with sighs himself doth smother;Frighted each other? Why should he follow?
Or me to whom thou gav'st it, else mistaking,From Antony win Cleopatra. Promise,
Or say with princes if it shall go wellFrom Egypt drive her all-disgraced friend,
Or some fierce thing replete with too much rage,From courtly friends, with camping foes to live,
Or state it self confounded, to decay,From firm security.
Or ten times happier be it ten for one,From her inaidable estate-I say we must not
Or to thy self at least kind-hearted prove,From lowest place when virtuous things proceed,
Or what strong hand can hold his swift foot back,From mine own knowledge. As nearly as I may,
Or whether doth my mind being crowned with youFrom my cold heart let heaven engender hail,
Or whether revolution be the same.From simple sources, and great seas have dried
Or whether shall I say mine eye saith true,From son to son some four or five descents
Or who his spoil of beauty can forbid?From that great face of war, whose several ranges
Or who is he so fond will be the tomb,From the great compt; but love that comes too late,
Or you survive when I in earth am rotten,From the report that goes upon your goodness;
Others, but stewards of their excellence:From thine invention, offers. Women are not
Our love was new, and then but in the spring,From whence thou cam'st, how tended on. But rest
Pedestre concinnans opusFrowns at this levity. Gentle lords, let's part;
Pity me then, and wish I were renewed,Full surfeits and the dryness of his bones
Plods dully on, to bear that weight in me,Fulvia perchance is angry; or who knows
Pluck the keen teeth from the fierce tiger's jaws,Further than he is Caesar.
Pointing to each his thunder, rain and wind,Further this act of grace; and from this hour
Points on me graciously with fair aspect,Gerard de Narbon was my father,
Possessing or pursuing no delightGet goal for goal of youth. Behold this man;
Potions of eisel 'gainst my strong infection,Get me ink and paper.
Praeceptor Augusti tuiGive him much wrong'd.
Presents thy shadow to my sightless view,Give me mine angle- we'll to th' river. There,
Profitless usurer why dost thou useGive me some help here, ho! If thou proceed
Proving his beauty by succession thine.Give me thy hand,
Quam vertit exili styloGive me to drink mandragora.
Resembling sire, and child, and happy mother,Give them thy fingers, me thy lips to kiss.
Resembling strong youth in his middle age,Give up yourself merely to chance and hazard
Reserve their character with golden quill,Given order for our horses; and to-night,
Reserve them for my love, not for their rhyme,Gives him a worthy pass. Here comes my clog.
Return forgetful Muse, and straight redeem,Gives us free scope; only doth backward pull
Return of love, more blest may be the view.Go put on thy defences.
Richer than wealth, prouder than garments' costs,Go speedily, and bring again the Count.
Rise resty Muse, my love's sweet face survey,Go thou toward home, where I will never come
Robbing no old to dress his beauty new,Go to the fellow, good Alexas; bid him
Roses have thorns, and silver fountains mud,Go with your impositions, I am yours
Roses of shadow, since his rose is true?Go, go, provide.                                      Exeunt
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May,God save you, Captain.
Ruin hath taught me thus to ruminateGod save you, pilgrim! Whither are bound?
Sap checked with frost and lusty leaves quite gone,God shield you mean it not! 'daughter' and 'mother'
Save that my soul's imaginary sightGod's mercy, maiden! does it curd thy blood
Save what is had, or must from you be took.God, it holds yet.
Save where thou art not, though I feel thou art,Goes to and back, lackeying the varying tide,
Save where you are, how happy you make those.Good Antony, your hand.
Say that thou didst forsake me for some fault,Good Enobarbus, make yourself my guest
Seeking that beauteous roof to ruinateGood Tom Drum, lend me a handkercher. So, I
Seems seeing, but effectually is out:Good-morrow to thee. Welcome.
Self, so self-loving were iniquity.Grace grow where those drops fall! My hearty friends,
Serving with looks his sacred majesty,Grants scarce distinction. Thou wilt write to Antony?
Sets you most rich in youth before my sight,Great Herod to incline himself to Caesar
Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?Great King, I am no strumpet, by my life;
Shall Time's best jewel from Time's chest lie hid?Great Mars, I put myself into thy file;
Shall hate be fairer lodged than gentle love?Great Media, Parthia, and Armenia,
Shall neigh (no dull flesh) in his fiery race,Great in our hope, lay our best love and credence
Shall reasons find of settled gravity;Greater than shows itself at the first view
Shall sum my count, and make my old excuse'Grew fat with feasting there.
Shall you pace forth, your praise shall still find room,Grief would have tears, and sorrow bids me speak.     Exeunt
Shifts but his place, for still the world enjoys it;Had from the conversation of my thoughts
Show me your image in some antique book,Had gone to gaze on Cleopatra too,
Showing their birth, and where they did proceed?Had our great palace the capacity
Sin of self-love possesseth all mine eye,Had we done so at first, we had droven them home
Since I left you, mine eye is in my mind,Hadst thou Narcissus in thy face, to me
Since all alike my songs and praises beHalf won is match well made; match, and well make it;
Since brass, nor stone, nor earth, nor boundless sea,Haply been absent then.
Since every one, hath every one, one shade,Haply you shall not see me more; or if,
Since first I saw you fresh which yet are green.Hark further.
Since mind at first in character was done.Hark, Ventidius.
Since seldom coming in that long year set,Hast sold me to this novice; and my heart
Since spite of him I'll live in this poor rhyme,Hath after thee sent all thy treasure, with
Since sweets and beauties do themselves forsake,Hath brought me up to be your daughter's dower,
Since that my life on thy revolt doth lie,Hath given the dare to Caesar, and commands
Sing to the ear that doth thy lays esteem,Hath it been ow'd and worn. This is his wife:
Sinks down to death, oppressed with melancholy.Hath made me rig my navy, at whose burden
So I for fear of trust, forget to say,Hath nobly held; our sever'd navy to
So I, made lame by Fortune's dearest spiteHath nodded him to her. He hath given his empire
So all my best is dressing old words new,Hath not in nature's mystery more science
So all their praises are but propheciesHath so betray'd thine act. Being done unknown,
So am I as the rich whose blessed key,Hath told the thievish minutes how they pass,
So are those errors that in thee are seen,Hath well compos'd thee. Thy father's moral parts
So are you to my thoughts as food to life,Have I my pillow left unpress'd in Rome,
So do our minutes hasten to their end,Have buried them for prey.
So dost thou too, and therein dignified:Have empty left their orbs and shot their fires
So either by thy picture or my love,Have fought with equal fortune, and continue
So far from home into my deeds to pry,Have given myself the cause.
So far from variation or quick change?Have glow'd like plated Mars, now bend, now turn,
So flatter I the swart-complexioned night,Have knit again, and fleet, threat'ning most sea-like.
So great a sum of sums yet canst not live?Have letters from me to some friends that will
So is it not with me as with that muse,Have lipp'd, and trembled kissing.
So is the time that keeps you as my chestHave lost my way for ever. I have a ship
So long as youth and thou are of one date,Have lov'd without this mean, if on both parts
So love be thou, although to-day thou fillHave nick'd his captainship, at such a point,
So oft have I invoked thee for my muse,Have notice what we purpose. I shall break
So shall I live, supposing thou art true,Have one man but a man? And that is it
So shall those blots that do with me remain,Have power to utter. O, then we bring forth weeds
So should my papers (yellowed with their age)Have the like oaths. He had sworn to marry me
So should that beauty which you hold in leaseHave to the full appeach'd.
So should the lines of life that life repairHave tongue to charge me with.
So that eternal love in love's fresh case,Have us'd to conquer standing on the earth
So that my self bring water for my stain,Have, by their brave instruction, got upon me
So then I am not lame, poor, nor despised,Having a son and friends, since Julius Caesar,
So then thou hast but lost the dregs of life,Having alike your cause? Of this my letters
So thou be good, slander doth but approve,Having vainly fear'd too little. Away with him.
So thou through windows of thine age shalt see,He bade me store up as a triple eye,
So thy great gift upon misprision growing,He beats thee 'gainst the odds. Thy lustre thickens
So you o'er-green my bad, my good allow?He comes too short of that great property
So your sweet hue, which methinks still doth standHe could so quickly cut the Ionian sea,
Some fresher stamp of the time-bettering days.He cried almost to roaring; and he wept
Some glory in their birth, some in their skill,He fell upon me ere admitted. Then
Some in their garments though new-fangled ill:He gave it to a commoner o' th' camp,
Some in their hawks and hounds, some in their horse.He gave the stablishment of Egypt; made her
Some in their wealth, some in their body's force,He gave to Alexander; to Ptolemy he assign'd
Some say thy fault is youth, some wantonness,He goes forth gallantly. That he and Caesar might
Some say thy grace is youth and gentle sport,He had not my virginity.
Sometime all full with feasting on your sight,He had the wit which I can well observe
Sometime too hot the eye of heaven shines,He has not with him.
Speak of my lameness, and I straight will halt:He hath spoken true. The very dice obey him;
Speak of the spring, and foison of the year,He hath whipt with rods; dares me to personal combat,
Speaking of worth, what worth in you doth grow.He hence remov'd last night, and with more haste
Spend'st thou thy fury on some worthless song,He is an absolute master.
Spending again what is already spent:He is too good and fair for death and me;
Steal from his figure, and no pace perceived,He is twenty men to one.
Stealing away the treasure of his spring:He is unqualitied with very shame.
Stealing unseen to west with this disgrace:He is with Caesar.
Still constant in a wondrous excellence,He kiss'd- the last of many doubled kisses-
Stirred by a painted beauty to his verse,He knows I am no maid, and he'll swear to't:
Strikes each in each by mutual ordering;He knows himself my bed he hath defil'd;
Such cherubins as your sweet self resemble,He lessens his requests and to thee sues
Such civil war is in my love and hate,He loses hearts. Lepidus flatters both,
Such heavenly touches ne'er touched earthly faces.He makes me angry with him; for he seems
Such seems your beauty still: three winters cold,He may at pleasure whip or hang or torture,
Suff'ring my friend for my sake to approve her.He may recover yet.                     Exeunt with the body
Supposed as forfeit to a confined doom.He might have bought me at a common price.
Sweet love renew thy force, be it not saidHe must not be my brother.
Sweet thief, whence didst thou steal thy sweet that smells,He ne'er pays after-debts, take it before.
Sweets with sweets war not, joy delights in joy:He pays the whole, and yet am I not free.
Take all my comfort of thy worth and truth.He ploughed her, and she cropp'd.
Take all my loves, my love, yea take them all,He scatter'd not in ears, but grafted them
Tan sacred beauty, blunt the sharp'st intents,He sends so poor a pinion of his wing,
Ten times thy self were happier than thou art,He shall have every day a several greeting,
Th' imprisoned absence of your liberty,He shall not hear thee; or from Caesar's camp
Th' offender's sorrow lends but weak reliefHe shall to Parthia.- Be it art or hap,
Than niggard truth would willingly impart:He that of greatest works is finisher
Than of your graces and your gifts to tell.He that unbuckles this, till we do please
Than public means which public manners breeds.He us'd as creatures of another place;
Than that, which on thy humour doth depend.He vented them, most narrow measure lent me;
Than this rich praise, that you alone, are you?He was first smok'd by the old Lord Lafeu. When his disguise and
Than those old nine which rhymers invocate,He was much fam'd.
Than unswept stone, besmeared with sluttish time.He was not sad, for he would shine on those
Than when her mournful hymns did hush the night,He wears his honour in a box unseen
Than when it hath my added praise beside.He were much goodlier. Is't not a handsome gentleman?
Than you shall hear the surly sullen bellHe will return; and hope I may that she,
That 'gainst thy self thou stick'st not to conspire,He would receive it? He and his physicians
That I in thy abundance am sufficed,He's bound unto Octavia.
That I in your sweet thoughts would be forgot,He's bravely taken here. He stole from France,
That I might see what the old world could say,He's quoted for a most perfidious slave,
That Time will come and take my love away.Health shall live free, and sickness freely die.
That am debarred the benefit of rest?Heard you of nothing strange about the streets?
That barren tender of a poet's debt:Hearing so much, will speed her foot again,
That by this separation I may give:Hearing that you prepar'd for war, acquainted
That did my ripe thoughts in my brain inhearse,Heart, once be stronger than thy continent,
That did not better for my life provide,Heaven hath through me restor'd the King to health.
That do not do the thing, they most do show,Help me, my women- we must draw thee up;
That due of many, now is thine alone.Help, friends below! Let's draw him hither.
That due to thee which thou deserv'st alone:Hence with thy stripes, be gone.                Exit THYREUS
That every word doth almost tell my name,Hence, thou suborned informer, a true soul
That god forbid, that made me first your slave,Her audit (though delayed) answered must be,
That hath his windows glazed with thine eyes:Her estimation home.
That having such a scope to show her pride,Her eye is sick on't; I observe her now.
That he shall never cut from memoryHer eyes myself, could win me to believe
That heals the wound, and cures not the disgrace:Her hair, what colour?
That heaven's air in this huge rondure hems.Her head's declin'd, and death will seize her but
That heavy Saturn laughed and leaped with him.Her heart inform her tongue- the swan's down feather,
That in thy face sweet love should ever dwell,Her heart weighs sadly. This young maid might do her
That is my home of love, if I have ranged,Her inclination; let him not leave out
That it could so preposterously be stained,Her infinite cunning with her modern grace
That love is merchandized, whose rich esteeming,Her infinite variety. Other women cloy
That may express my love, or thy dear merit?Her length of sickness, with what else more serious
That millions of strange shadows on you tend?Her love, for whose dear love I rise and fall.
That my steeled sense or changes right or wrong.Her motion and her station are as one;
That on the ashes of his youth doth lie,Her opulent throne with kingdoms. All the East,
That over-goes my blunt invention quite,Her people out upon her; and Antony,
That she hath thee is of my wailing chief,Her that so wishes, and her humble love!
That sin by him advantage should achieve,Her welcome friendly.
That sometimes anger thrusts into his hide,Here comes the Emperor.
That thereby beauty's rose might never die,Here is a pur of Fortune's, sir, or of Fortune's cat, but not
That this huge stage presenteth nought but showsHere on my knee, before high heaven and you,
That thou among the wastes of time must go,Here's a petition from a Florentine,
That thou art blamed shall not be thy defect,Here's his lordship now.
That thou consum'st thy self in single life?Here's to Caesar!
That thou hast her it is not all my grief,Herod of Jewry dare not look upon you
That thou in losing me, shalt win much glory:Herod of Jewry; Mithridates, king
That thou no form of thee hast left behind,Herself most chastely absent. After this,
That time of year thou mayst in me behold,Higher than both in blood and life, stands up
That to his subject lends not some small glory,Him have I lost, thou hast both him and me,
That to my use it might unused stayHipparchus, my enfranched bondman, whom
That tongue that tells the story of thy days,Hirtius and Pansa, consuls, at thy heel
That use is not forbidden usury,His Grace is at Marseilles, to which place
That wear this world out to the ending doom.His Majesty seldom fears. I am Cressid's uncle,
That you are you, so dignifies his story.His accusations.
That you for love speak well of me untrue,His arched brows, his hawking eye, his curls,
That you your self being extant well might show,His baseness that ensued?
That you your self may privilage your timeHis bounty overplus. The messenger
That's for thy self to breed another thee,His brother warr'd upon him; although, I think,
The age to come would say this poet lies,His cocks do win the battle still of mine,
The argument all bare is of more worthHis conquering banner shook from Syria
The basest jewel will be well esteemed:His corrigible neck, his face subdu'd
The basest weed outbraves his dignity:His death was so effected. Better 'twere
The beast that bears me, tired with my woe,His equal had awak'd them; and his honour,
The bloody spur cannot provoke him on,His face I know not.
The bounteous largess given thee to give?His faith, his sweet disaster; with a world
The canker blooms have full as deep a dye,His faults, in him, seem as the spots of heaven,
The cause of this fair gift in me is wanting,His fretted fortunes give him hope and fear
The charter of thy worth gives thee releasing:His guard have brought him thither.
The clear eye's moiety, and the dear heart's part.His humble ambition, proud humility,
The coward conquest of a wretch's knife,His jarring concord, and his discord dulcet,
The crow, or dove, it shapes them to your feature.His judgment too.
The dear respose for limbs with travel tired,His love to Antony. But as for Caesar,
The dedicated words which writers useHis name with zealous fervour sanctify.
The earth can have but earth, which is his due,His pardon for return.
The earth can yield me but a common grave,His part o' th' isle. Then does he say he lent me
The eyes (fore duteous) now converted areHis pow'rful mandate to you: 'Do this or this;
The first my thought, the other my desire,His power unto Octavia.
The forward violet thus did I chide,His power went out in such distractions as
The guilty goddess of my harmful deeds,His powerful sound within an organ weak;
The hand that writ it, for I love you so,His servant live, and will his vassal die.
The humble as the proudest sail doth bear,His sons he there proclaim'd the kings of kings:
The injuries that to my self I do,His sword e'en like a dancer, while I struck
The lily I condemned for thy hand,His taken labours bid him me forgive;
The living record of your memory.His tongue obey'd his hand. Who were below him
The lovely gaze where every eye doth dwellHis vacancy with his voluptuousness,
The mortal moon hath her eclipse endured,His wife that's dead did trespasses to Caesar;
The most sweet favour or deformed'st creature,Hoists sails and flies.
The mountain, or the sea, the day, or night:Hold unbewail'd their way. Welcome to Rome;
The one by toil, the other to complainHolds idleness your subject, I should take you
The one doth shadow of your beauty show,Hoo! hearts, tongues, figures, scribes, bards, poets, cannot
The ornament of beauty is suspect,Hop forty paces through the public street;
The other as your bounty doth appear,Hop'st thou my cure?
The other two, slight air, and purging fire,Horrible villain! or I'll spurn thine eyes
The owner's tongue doth publish every where.How 'tis abroad. Pompey is strong at sea,
The painful warrior famoused for fight,How I convey my shame out of thine eyes
The perfect ceremony of love's rite,How could you give it him?
The prey of worms, my body being dead,How goes it with my brave Mark Antony?
The region cloud hath masked him from me now.How lesser enmities may give way to greater.
The rich-proud cost of outworn buried age,How much we do o'er-count thee.
The right of sepulchres, were shorn away,How much you were my conqueror, and that
The rose looks fair, but fairer we it deemHow now! Do you hear this?
The roses fearfully on thorns did stand,How now! Is he dead?
The sad account of fore-bemoaned moan,How now, Varrius!
The scope and tenure of thy jealousy?How now, my lord, is't not after midnight?
The second burthen of a former child!How now, worthy soldier?
The spirit of love, with a perpetual dulness:How now? Where's your master?
The summer's flower is to the summer sweet,How this Herculean Roman does become
The teeming autumn big with rich increase,How, with his banners, and his well-paid ranks,
The very part was consecrate to thee,Howe'er it pleases you to take it so,
The which he will not every hour survey,Howe'er repented after.
The world will be thy widow and still weep,Humbly call'd mistress.
The world will wail thee like a makeless wife,Humbly entreating from your royal thoughts
The wrinkles which thy glass will truly show,I am a mother to you.
Thee have I not locked up in any chest,I am afeard the life of Helen, lady,
Then beauteous niggard why dost thou abuse,I am either maid, or else this old man's wife.
Then being asked, where all thy beauty lies,I am from humble, he from honoured name;
Then bettered that the world may see my pleasure,I am going, forsooth. The business is for Helen to come hither.
Then can I drown an eye (unused to flow)I am not an impostor, that proclaim
Then can I grieve at grievances foregone,I am so lated in the world that I
Then can no horse with my desire keep pace,I am supposed dead. The army breaking,
Then churls their thoughts (although their eyes were kind)I am the caitiff that do hold him to't;
Then hate me when thou wilt, if ever, now,I am undone; there is no living, none,
Then how when nature calls thee to be gone,I and my sword will earn our chronicle.
Then if for my love, thou my love receivest,I bade her, if her fortunes ever stood
Then in the blazon of sweet beauty's best,I came before you here a man prepar'd
Then let not winter's ragged hand deface,I can build up. Strange is it that our bloods,
Then look I death my days should expiate.I can create the rest. Virtue and she
Then need I not to fear the worst of wrongs,I cannot hate thee worser than I do
Then of thy beauty do I question makeI care no more for than I do for heaven,
Then should I spur though mounted on the wind,I come to tender it, and my appliance,
Then the conceit of this inconstant stay,I could do more to do Antonius good,
Then thou whose shadow shadows doth make brightI could have well diverted her intents,
Then were not summer's distillation leftI could not answer in that course of honour
Then what could death do if thou shouldst depart,I crave our composition may be written,
Thence comes it that my name receives a brand,I did not send you. If you find him sad,
Therefore are feasts so solemn and so rare,I did not think, sir, to have met you here.
Therefore desire (of perfect'st love being made)I do beseech you, whither is he gone?
Therefore in that I cannot know thy change,I do perceive't. There's nothing in her yet.
Therefore my verse to constancy confined,I dread, too late.
These blenches gave my heart another youth,I faint. O Iras, Charmian! 'Tis no matter.
These poor rude lines of thy deceased lover:I fight against thee? No! I will go seek
These present-absent with swift motion slide.I follow'd that I blush to look upon.
These vacant leaves thy mind's imprint will bear,I found you wondrous kind. There is your ring,
They do but sweetly chide thee, who confoundsI grant him part; but then, in his Armenia
They had not skill enough your worth to sing:I had thought t'have held it poor; but since my lord
They live unwooed, and unrespected fade,I have done all. Bid them all fly; begone.       Exit SCARUS
They look into the beauty of thy mind,I have done enough. A lower place, note well,
They rightly do inherit heaven's graces,I have felt so many quirks of joy and grief
They that have power to hurt, and will do none,I have forgiven and forgotten all;
They were but sweet, but figures of delight:I have forgot him; my imagination
Thine eyes, that taught the dumb on high to sing,I have led you oft; carry me now, good friends,
Thine own sweet argument, too excellent,I have letters that my son will be here to-night. I shall beseech
This silence for my sin you did impute,I have liv'd in such dishonour that the gods
Those children nursed, delivered from thy brain,I have many other ways to die, meantime
Those hours that with gentle work did frameI have myself resolv'd upon a course
Those lines that I before have writ do lie,I have no ears to his request. The Queen
Those parts of thee that the world's eye doth view,I have no power upon you; hers you are.
Those pretty wrongs that liberty commits,I have not heard examin'd.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,I have not kept my square; but that to come
Thou art more lovely and more temperate:I have seen her wear it; and she reckon'd it
Thou art the grave where buried love doth live,I have to use. Thy frank election make;
Thou art thy mother's glass and she in theeI have told him Lepidus was grown too cruel,
Thou best of dearest, and mine only care,I hear him as he flatter'd.
Thou by thy dial's shady stealth mayst know,I here importune death awhile, until
Thou canst not (love) disgrace me half so ill,I hope well of to-morrow, and will lead you
Thou canst not vex me with inconstant mind,I kiss his conquring hand. Tell him I am prompt
Thou dost beguile the world, unbless some mother.I knew it for my bond.                                Exeunt
Thou dost love her, because thou know'st I love her,I know I love in vain, strive against hope;
Thou hast passed by the ambush of young days,I know not how I shall assure you further
Thou mak'st faults graces, that to thee resort:I know not what he shall. God send him well!
Thou mayst call thine, when thou from youth convertest,I know not, except in that country he had the honour to be the
Thou of thy self thy sweet self dost deceive,I know you could not lack, I am certain on't,
Thou that art now the world's fresh ornament,I knowing all my peril, thou no art.
Thou truly fair, wert truly sympathized,I laugh'd him into patience; and next morn,
Though I (once gone) to all the world must die,I laughed him out of patience; and that night
Though absence seemed my flame to qualify,I lay upon thy lips.
Though in our lives a separable spite,I learn'd of thee. How? not dead? not dead?-
Though thou repent, yet I have still the loss,I leave you to your wisdom.
Though to it self, it only live and die,I long to talk with the young noble soldier.
Though yet heaven knows it is but as a tombI look'd her in the face, and saw her led
Three April perfumes in three hot Junes burned,I lose myself; better I were not yours
Three beauteous springs to yellow autumn turned,I lov'd you dearly, would you believe my oaths
Three themes in one, which wondrous scope affords.I love your son.
Through heavy sleep on sightless eyes doth stay!I made these wars for Egypt; and the Queen-
Thus can my love excuse the slow offence,I mean.
Thus is his cheek the map of days outworn,I met the ravin lion when he roar'd
Thy adverse party is thy advocate,I might have told hereafter.
Thy beauty's form in table of my heart,I must from this enchanting queen break off.
Thy beauty, and thy years full well befits,I must produce my power. Here, take her hand,
Thy bosom is endeared with all hearts,I never hated thee; I have seen thee fight,
Thy dial how thy precious minutes waste,I never lov'd you much; but I ha' prais'd ye
Thy edge should blunter be than appetite,I never saw an action of such shame;
Thy glass will show thee how thy beauties wear,I never writ, nor no man ever loved.
Thy hungry eyes, even till they wink with fulness,I prithee do not strive against my vows.
Thy looks should nothing thence, but sweetness tell.I prithee turn aside and weep for her;
Thy looks with me, thy heart in other place.I quickly were dissolved from my hive,
Thy love is better than high birth to me,I saw the treasons planted.
Thy merit hath my duty strongly knit;I saw upon her finger.
Thy outward thus with outward praise is crowned,I shall be furnish'd to inform you rightly
Thy self away, art present still with me,I shall continue thankful.
Thy self thou gav'st, thy own worth then not knowing,I shall discover all. I'll bring thee word
Thy self thy foe, to thy sweet self too cruel:I should do thus.                                 [Flourish]
Thy sweet beloved name no more shall dwell,I should have found it afterwards well done,
Thy worth the greater being wooed of time,I should, and thou couldst not. My queen and Eros
Thy youth's proud livery so gazed on now,I sing but after you.
Tibey are the lords and owners of their faces,I still pour in the waters of my love,
Till I return of posting is no need.I stood engag'd; but when I had subscrib'd
Till nature as she wrought thee fell a-doting,I stuck my choice upon her, ere my heart
Till whatsoever star that guides my moving,I tell you true. Best you saf'd the bringer
Time doth transfix the flourish set on youth,I that do bring the news made not the match.
Time's thievish progress to eternity.I think I have his letter in my pocket.
Tired with all these for restful death I cry,I told him of myself, which was as much
To bear greater wrong, than hate's known injury.I turn you not away; but, like a master
To change your day of youth to sullied night,I was compell'd to her; but I love the
To critic and to flatterer stopped are:I was of late as petty to his ends
To do more for me than mine own desert,I will ask Antony. Sir, sir, thou art so leaky
To dry the rain on my storm-beaten face,I will be true despite thy scythe and thee.
To entertain the time with thoughts of love,I will bestow some precepts of this virgin,
To every hymn that able spirit affords,I will come after you with what good speed
To find out shames and idle hours in me,I will conduct you where you shall be lodg'd;
To find where your true image pictured lies,I will employ thee back again; I find thee
To guard the lawful reasons on thy part,I will entreat you, when you see my son,
To hideous winter and confounds him there,I will no more enforce mine office on you;
To him that bears the strong offence's cross.I will not bed her.
To know my shames and praises from your tongue,I will not stay behind.
To leap large lengths of miles when thou art gone,I will o'ertake thee, Cleopatra, and
To leave for nothing all thy sum of good:I will oppose his fate. Our force by land
To let base clouds o'ertake me in my way,I will possess you of that ship and treasure.
To linger out a purposed overthrow.I will subscribe- gentle adieus and greetings;
To live a second life on second head,I wish I could be made so many men,
To make him much outlive a gilded tomb:I wore his sword Philippan.
To make me tongue-tied speaking of your fame.I would he lov'd his wife; if he were honester
To make of monsters, and things indigest,I would not shave't to-day.
To make some special instant special-blest,I would not tell you what I would, my lord.
To mar the subject that before was well?I would poison that vile rascal.
To march in ranks of better equipage:I would relieve her. Had you that craft to reave her
To me fair friend you never can be old,I would you had her spirit in such another!
To new-found methods, and to compounds strange?I would you had kneel'd, my lord, to ask me mercy;
To one, of one, still such, and ever so.I' th' East my pleasure lies.
To play the watchman ever for thy sake.I' th' market-place, on a tribunal silver'd,
To say within thine own deep sunken eyes,I'll after them.                                        Exit
To see his active child do deeds of youth,I'll beat him, and if I could but meet him again.
To set a form upon desired change,I'll discover that which shall undo the Florentine.
To show me worthy of thy sweet respect,I'll have. But how, when Antony is gone,
To side this title is impanelledI'll love her dearly, ever, ever dearly.
To speak of that which gives thee all thy might?I'll make death love me; for I will contend
To take a new acquaintance of thy mind.I'll never do you wrong for your own sake.
To the clear day with thy much clearer light,I'll never follow thy pall'd fortunes more.
To the wide world and all her fading sweets:I'll none of him.
To thee I send this written embassageI'll order take my mother shall not hear.
To this composed wonder of your frame,I'll play the penitent to you; but mine honesty
To thy fair flower add the rank smell of weeds:I'll raise the preparation of a war
To tie up envy, evermore enlarged,I'll seem the fool I am not. Antony
To truths translated, and for true things deemed.I'll send her straight away. To-morrow
To what it works in, like the dyer's hand:I'll set thee in a shower of gold, and hail
To what you will, to you it doth belong,I'll swear I am a maid, and he knows not.
To witness duty, not to show my wit.I'll think them every one an Antony,
To work my mind, when body's work's expired.I'll to the Tuscan wars, and never bed her.
To-morrow see again, and do not killI'll to the wars, she to her single sorrow.
To-morrow sharpened in his former might.I'll wrestle with you in my strength of love.
Too base of thee to be remembered,I, after him, do after him wish too,
Unless thou take that honour from thy name:I, his despiteful Juno, sent him forth
Unless you would devise some virtuous lie,If 'twill tie up thy discontented sword
Unlooked for joy in that I honour most;If Bertram be away. 'Twere all one
Unmoved, cold, and to temptation slow:If Cleopatra heard you, your reproof
Unthrifty loveliness why dost thou spend,If I be one.
Until life's composition be recured,If I had given you this at over-night,
Upon the farthest earth removed from thee,If I should swear by Jove's great attributes
Upon the hours, and times of your desire?If I would say 'Agrippa, be it so,'
Upon those boughs which shake against the cold,If e'er thou look'dst on majesty.
Upon thy part I can set down a storyIf ever we are nature's, these are ours; this thorn
Upon thy self thy beauty's legacy?If fortune be not ours to-day, it is
Upon thy side, against my self I'll fight,If from the field I shall return once more
Uttering bare truth, even so as foes commend.If he would spend his power. God save you, sir.
Vaunt in their youthful sap, at height decrease,If it be not, forswear't; howe'er, I charge thee,
Want nothing that the thought of hearts can mend:If it be so, you have wound a goodly clew;
Was it his spirit, by spirits taught to write,If it be well to live; but better 'twere
Was it the proud full sail of his great verse,If seriously I may convey my thoughts
Weary with toil, I haste me to my bed,If swift thought break it not, a swifter mean
Weighs not the dust and injury of age,If that the former dare but what it can,
Were an all-eating shame, and thriftless praise.If the quick fire of youth light not your mind,
Were it not sinful then striving to mend,If the scarce-bearded Caesar have not sent
Were it not thy sour leisure gave sweet leave,If there be here German, or Dane, Low Dutch,
What acceptable audit canst thou leave?If they demand; beware of being captives
What can mine own praise to mine own self bring:If this be error and upon me proved,
What freezings have I felt, what dark days seen!If this division chance, ne'er stood between,
What hast thou then more than thou hadst before?If thou again say 'Yes.'
What is your substance, whereof are you made,If thou canst like this creature as a maid,
What merit lived in me that you should loveIf thou dost play with him at any game,
What old December's bareness everywhere!If thou dost seek to have what thou dost hide,
What strained touches rhetoric can lend,If thou engrossest all the griefs are thine,
What's in the brain that ink may character,If thou so yield him, there is gold, and here
What's new to speak, what now to register,If thou turn back and my loud crying still.
Whate'er thy thoughts, or thy heart's workings be,If thou with Caesar paragon again
When I (perhaps) compounded am with clay,If thy unworthiness raised love in me,
When I am sometime absent from thy heart,If we should serve with horse and mares together
When I behold the violet past prime,If you should tender your supposed aid,
When I consider every thing that growsIf you will see her. Now, by my faith and honour,
When I do count the clock that tells the time,If you will tarry, holy pilgrim,
When I have seen by Time's fell hand defacedIf, or for nothing or a little,
When I have seen such interchange of State,Importeth thee to know, this bears.       [Gives the letter]
When I have seen the hungry ocean gainImpossible be strange attempts to those
When I perceive that men as plants increase,In Alexandria. Here's the manner of't:
When I shall see thee frown on my defects,In Cleopatra's sails their nests. The augurers
When I was certain o'er incertainty,In Egypt sits at dinner, and will make
When I was wont to greet it with my lays,In Egypt with his joy; but between both.
When all the breathers of this world are dead,In Florence was it from a casement thrown me,
When as thy love hath cast his utmost sum,In Fulvia's death how mine receiv'd shall be.
When beauty lived and died as flowers do now,In a sweet verbal brief it did concern
When day's oppression is not eased by night,In any staining act.
When every private widow well may keep,In argument of praise, or to the worth
When forty winters shall besiege thy brow,In aught an eunuch has. 'Tis well for thee
When hours have drained his blood and filled his browIn common sense, sense saves another way.
When in dead night thy fair imperfect shade,In differences so mighty. If she be
When in disgrace with Fortune and men's eyes,In every power that moves.
When in eternal lines to time thou grow'st,In eye of Caesar's battle; from which place
When in the chronicle of wasted time,In fine, delivers me to fill the time,
When in the least of them my life hath end,In happy time!
When lofty trees I see barren of leaves,In heavy satisfaction, and would never
When love converted from the thing it wasIn heedfull'st reservation to bestow them,
When most I wink then do mine eyes best see,In her pavilion, cloth-of-gold, of tissue,
When other petty griefs have done their spite,In his abominations, turns you off,
When others would give life, and bring a tomb.In his bright radiance and collateral light
When proud-pied April (dressed in all his trim)In honestest defence.
When rocks impregnable are not so stout,In manners, as in shape! Thy blood and virtue
When sometime lofty towers I see down-rased,In me at once. But to the brightest beams
When sparkling stars twire not thou gild'st the even.In me to lose.
When summer's breath their masked buds discloses:In me to lose. Thus your own proper wisdom
When swift extremity can seem but slow?In most rich choice; yet, in his idle fire,
When that churl death my bones with dust shall coverIn nothing art thou black save in thy deeds,
When that mine eye is famished for a look,In our heart's table-heart too capable
When thou art all the better part of me?In our own filth drop our clear judgments, make us
When thou reviewest this, thou dost review,In soft and delicate Lethe.
When thou shalt be disposed to set me light,In state of health, thou say'st; and, thou say'st, free.
When thou thy self dost give invention light?In such a business give me leave to use
When to the sessions of sweet silent thought,In th' habiliments of the goddess Isis
When to unseeing eyes thy shade shines so!In that and all your worthiest affairs.
When wasteful war shall statues overturn,In the brave squares of war. Yet now- no matter.
When what I seek (my weary travel's end)In the unlawful purpose.
When yellow leaves, or none, or few do hangIn thee't had been good service. Thou must know
When you entombed in men's eyes shall lie,In their best fortunes strong; but want will perjure
When you have bid your servant once adieu.In their poor praise he humbled. Such a man
When your sweet issue your sweet form should bear.In these to nature she's immediate heir;
Where all the treasure of thy lusty days;In things right true my heart and eyes have erred,
Where art thou Muse that thou forget'st so long,In this my light deliverance, I have spoke
Where beauty's veil doth cover every blot,In time we hate that which we often fear.
Where thou art forced to break a twofold truth:In what he did profess, well found.
Where wasteful time debateth with decayIn your distrust.
Where you may be, or your affairs suppose,In your fine frame hath love no quality?
Wherein it finds a joy above the rest,Indeed my mother! Or were you both our mothers,
Whereon the stars in secret influence comment.Inform on that.
Whether we are mended, or whether better they,Inform'd.
Which I by lacking have supposed dead,Ingross'd by swift impress. In Caesar's fleet
Which I new pay as if not paid before.Instruct my daughter how she shall persever,
Which alters when it alteration finds,Into a strumpet's fool. Behold and see.
Which bounteous gift thou shouldst in bounty cherish:Into th' abysm of hell. If he mislike
Which but to-day by feeding is allayed,Into the hearts of such as have not thrived
Which by and by black night doth take away,Into the service of the time, and was
Which erst from heat did canopy the herdInto the staggers and the careless lapse
Which eyes not yet created shall o'er-read,Into your guiding power. This is the man.
Which for memorial still with thee shall stay.Invited her to supper. She replied
Which for their habitation chose out thee,Is Antony again, I will be Cleopatra.
Which happies those that pay the willing loan;Is Caesar's homager. Else so thy cheek pays shame
Which hath not figured to thee my true spirit,Is Fulvia's death.
Which heavily he answers with a groan,Is a reserved honesty, and that
Which hides your life, and shows not half your parts:Is all afraid to govern thee near him;
Which husbandry in honour might uphold,Is as 'twere born so.
Which in my bosom's shop is hanging still,Is as our earing. Fare thee well awhile.
Which in thy breast doth live, as thine in me,Is come from Caesar; therefore hear it, Antony.
Which labouring for invention bear amisIs come indeed- when I should see behind me
Which like a canker in the fragrant rose,Is come into the field.
Which like a jewel (hung in ghastly night)Is dearest to me I have no skill in sense
Which nightly gulls him with intelligence,Is done unto thy hand. The last she spake
Which on thy soft check for complexion dwells,Is forth to man his galleys. To the vales,
Which parts the shore, where two contracted new,Is free for me to ask, thee to bestow.
Which shall be most my glory being dumb,Is fully out.
Which should example where your equal grew.Is good without a name. Vileness is so:
Which steals men's eyes and women's souls amazeth.Is he whipt?
Which this (Time's pencil) or my pupil penIs her own dower; honour and wealth from me.
Which though it alter not love's sole effect,Is here attending; her business looks in her
Which time and thoughts so sweetly doth deceive.Is now a widower.
Which to repair should be thy chief desire:Is now eclips'd, and it portends alone
Which vulgar scandal stamped upon my brow,Is often left unlov'd. We should have met you
While comments of your praise richly compiled,Is powerful to araise King Pepin, nay,
While he insults o'er dull and speechless tribes.Is shiny, and they say we shall embattle
While shadows like to thee do mock my sight?Is so from word to word; and then you cannot,
While thou dost breathe that pour'st into my verse,Is there no military policy how virgins might blow up men?
Whilst I (my sovereign) watch the clock for you,Is thine, if thou wilt ha't.
Whilst I alone did call upon thy aid,Is this the man you speak of?
Whilst I whom fortune of such triumph barsIs to be frighted out of fear, and in that mood
Whilst he upon your soundless deep doth ride,Is to do thus [emhracing], when such a mutual pair
Whilst like a willing patient I will drink,Is twice the other twain. But let us rear
Whilst that this shadow doth such substance give,Is valiant and dejected; and by starts
Who all in one, one pleasing note do sing:Is weaker than the wine, and mine own tongue
Who all their parts of me to thee did give,Is wicked meaning in a lawful deed,
Who even but now come back again assured,Is't real that I see?
Who for thy self art so unprovident.Isis, I beseech thee!
Who heaven it self for ornament doth use,It beggar'd all description. She did lie
Who is it that says most, which can say more,It cannot be thus long; the sides of nature
Who lead thee in their riot even thereIt eats the sword it fights with. I will seek
Who lets so fair a house fall to decay,It hath been taught us from the primal state
Who moving others, are themselves as stone,It is a dropsied honour. Good alone
Who plead for love, and look for recompense,It is asham'd to bear me. Friends, come hither.
Who will believe my verse in time to comeIt is in us to plant thine honour where
Who with his fear is put beside his part,It is my business too. Farewell.
Whose action is no stronger than a flower?It is not Caesar's natural vice to hate
Whose fresh repair if now thou not renewest,It is not so with Him that all things knows,
Whose influence is thine, and born of thee,It is reported thou didst eat strange flesh,
Whose strength's abundance weakens his own heart;It is the show and seal of nature's truth,
Why didst thou promise such a beauteous day,It must not be with this.
Why is my verse so barren of new pride?It not concern'd me.
Why lov'st thou that which thou receiv'st not gladly,It nothing ill becomes thee.
Why should false painting imitate his cheek,It should be better he became her guest;
Why should he live, now nature bankrupt is,It wounds thine honour that I speak it now-
Why should poor beauty indirectly seek,It's monstrous labour when I wash my brain
Why with the time do I not glance asideItalian, or French, let him speak to me;
Why write I still all one, ever the same,Itself with strength. Seal then, and all is done.
Will be a tattered weed of small worth held:Keep his brain fuming. Epicurean cooks
Will play the tyrants to the very same,Keep off them, for you sink.
Will sourly leave her till he have prevailed?Kill me outright with looks, and rid my pain.
Wishing me like to one more rich in hope,King Manchus of Arabia; King of Pont;
With April's first-born flowers and all things rare,Kingdoms and provinces.
With Time's injurious hand crushed and o'erworn,Kingdoms are clay; our dungy earth alike
With all triumphant splendour on my brow,Kiss it, my warrior- he hath fought to-day
With beauty's treasure ere it be self-killed:Kneel down, kneel down, and wonder.
With lines and wrinkles, when his youthful mornKnow that to-morrow the last of many battles
With means more blessed than my barren rhyme?Know you him?
With mine own weakness being best acquainted,Knowing all measures, the full Caesar will
With my love's picture then my eye doth feast,Knowing him is enough. On's bed of death
With shifting change as is false women's fashion,Lack blood to think on't, and flush youth revolt.
With sun and moon, with earth and sea's rich gems:Laden with gold; take that; divide it. Fly,
With ugly rack on his celestial face,Last night you did desire it. Speak not to us.
With virtuous wish would bear you living flowers,Laugh at his challenge.
With what I most enjoy contented least,Lay a more noble thought upon mine honour
Within the gentle closure of my breast,Lays down his wanton siege before her beauty,
Within the knowledge of mine own desert,Leave me, I pray, a little; pray you now;
Within thine own bud buriest thy content,Leave thy lascivious wassails. When thou once
Without accusing you of injury.Leaving the fight in height, flies after her.
Without all bail shall carry me away,Led hither by pure love. Which of them both
Without all ornament, it self and true,Lend me an arm-the rest have worn me out
Without this folly, age, and cold decay,Lepidus, let him speak.
Without thy help, by me be borne alone.Lest I be taken. Not th' imperious show
Worthy perusal stand against thy sight,Lest eyes well-seeing thy foul faults should find.
Yet be most proud of that which I compile,Lest my remembrance suffer ill report;
Yet doth it steal sweet hours from love's delight.Let Antony look over Caesar's head
Yet in these thoughts my self almost despising,Let Neptune hear we bid a loud farewell
Yet mortal looks adore his beauty still,Let every word weigh heavy of her worth
Yet nor the lays of birds, nor the sweet smellLet her not say 'tis I that keep you here-
Yet then my judgment knew no reason why,Let him fear this; for it will come to pass
Yet this abundant issue seemed to meLet him for ever go- let him not, Charmian-
Yet this thy praise cannot be so thy praise,Let me lodge Lichas on the horns o' th' moon,
Yet what of thee thy poet doth invent,Let me request you off; our graver business
You are my all the world, and I must strive,Let no unkind, no fair beseechers kill,
Your love and pity doth th' impression fill,Let not the piece of virtue which is set
Your monument shall be my gentle verse,Let not your hate encounter with my love,
Your name from hence immortal life shall have,Let the rest go.
Your self again after your self's decease,Let the white death sit on thy cheek for ever,
Your self to pardon of self-doing crime.Let us assay our plot; which, if it speed,
Your shallowest help will hold me up afloat,Let witchcraft join with beauty, lust with both;
additional cost, fee or expense, a copy of the etext in plainLet your best love draw to that point which seeks
author of the work, although tilde (~), asterisk (*) andLet's have one other gaudy night. Call to me
beated and chopt with tanned antiquity,Let's mock the midnight bell.
expense into plain ASCII, EBCDIC or equivalent form by theLet's not confound the time with conference harsh;
if thou wouldst use the strength of all thy state!Let's see how it will give off.
intended by the author, and additional characters may be usedLet's take the instant by the forward top;
join with the spite of fortune, make me bow,Lie down, and stray no farther. Now all labour
program that displays the etext (as is the case, for instance,Lie graveless, till the flies and gnats of Nile
to indicate hypertext links; ORLies richer in your thoughts than on his tomb;
underline (_) characters may be used to convey punctuationLike Caesar's sister. The wife of Antony
with most word processors); ORA SHEPHERD once found the whelp of a Wolf and brought it up, and
Like a remorseful pardon slowly carried,"'Tis not the Mouse I fear," said the Lion; "I resent his
Like a right gypsy hath at fast and loose"'Tis the simple manner," says Dodsley,[2] "in which the morals of
Like balls before me; I'll unhair thy head;"Ah, you will have to remain there, my friend, until you become
Like boys unto a muss, kings would start forth"All these monuments which you see," said the Monkey, "are
Like friends long lost. Triple-turn'd whore! 'tis thou"And how much more beautiful than you am I, who am decorated, not
Like holy Phoebus' car. Give me thy hand."Blame not me, my good sir, but the winds, for I am by my own
Like perfect honour."Defects").  Among other things, such Defects may take the form
Like to a vagabond flag upon the stream,"Father, what kind of bird is it?'  he replied, "To my certain
Long ere she did appear. The trees by th' way"Give me, I pray thee, a sting, that if any mortal shall approach
Longing for what it had not. Nay, the dust"Hardly," said the Horse, "can I resist kicking you with my
Look here, and at thy sovereign leisure read"He is dead, dear Mother; for just now a very huge beast with
Look out o' th' other side your monument;"I have no objection, but you must excuse me for requiring you to
Look where they come!"It would be better for me to be sacrificed in the Temple than to
Look, he has spied us."Marriage of the Sun," is supposed to have reference to the
Look, here I have you; thus I let you go,"My father surely was a high-mettled racer, and I am his own
Looking for Antony. But all the charms of love,"My name is Truth," she replied.  "And for what cause," he asked,
Looks bleak i' th' cold wind; withal, full oft we see"Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to
Loosing upon thee in the name of justice,"O you most detestable of animals! through a lying dream of my
Lord of his reason. What though you fled"O you most perverse creatures, when I piped you would not dance,
Love make your fortunes twenty times above"On my word, you are rightly served, for how could you for a
Love's fire heats water, water cools not love."Project").  Among other things, this means that no one owns a
Love, I am full of lead. Some wine,"Since I cannot sleep," she said, "on account of your song which,
Luxuriously pick'd out; for I am sure,"Sirrah, last year you grossly insulted me."  "Indeed," bleated
Madam, my lord will go away to-night:"Swollen Fox" and of the "Frogs asking a King" were spoken by
Madding my eagerness with her restraint,"The Grapes are sour, and not ripe as I thought."
Made friends of them, jointing their force 'gainst Caesar,"The fable," says Professor K. O. Mueller, "originated in Greece
Made good guard for itself."The little one is the best runner of the two."  The Hound
Made out of her impatience- which not wanted"The master," he replied.  Then said the Wolf:  "May no friend of
Made the all-honour'd honest Roman, Brutus,"Tous les habiles gens conviennent que c'est un roman, et que les
Made wars upon me, and their contestation"True," replied the Crane; "but I soar to the heights of heaven
Make battery to our ears with the loud music,"WHY SHOULD there always be this fear and slaughter between us?"
Make boot of his distraction. Never anger"We have waited for no purpose, for after all there is nothing to
Make but my name thy love, and love that still,"Well! I won't remain supperless, even though you refute every
Make her thanks bless thee. O thou day o' th' world,"What a selfish Dog!"  said one of them to his companions; "he
Make it so known."Who has taught you, my very excellent fellow, the art of
Make me but like my thoughts, and I shall prove"Why should I, being of such an immense size and extending nearly
Make me revenger. Bear the King's son's body"Why should we be perpetually engaged in administering to your
Make mingle with our rattling tabourines,"Why! I have only one; but that one is altogether a thoroughbred
Make space enough between you."Why, you have surely already had a sufficient recompense, in
Make the sea serve them, which they ear and wound"Why, you lazy old fellow," cried several tongues at once, "how
Make thine own edict for thy pains, which we"Woe be to us, that we should have fought and belabored ourselves
Make trivial price of serious things we have,"Wolf! Wolf!"  and when his neighbors came to help him, laughed at
Makes his approaches to the port of Rome;"Yes," said the Horse; "if any remains out of what I am now
Makes only wars on thee. Bid them all fly;"You drink of my well."  "No," exclaimed the Lamb, "I never yet
Makes the remembrance dear. Well, call him hither;"You foolish old fellow! If you had as many brains in your head
Making and marring fortunes. You did know"You have unrighteously taken that which was mine from me!"  To
Making them proud of his humility"You ridiculed the idea of my ever being able to help you, not expecting
Manage this war."You ungrateful fellow, you owe your life to me, and yet you
Many likelihoods inform'd me of this before, which hung so"You who have wished to revenge, even with death, the Prick of a
Many receipts he gave me; chiefly one,"because I am King:  and the second share, as a partner with you
Mardian, go tell him I have slain myself;"have you left the city to dwell alone here in the wilderness?"
Mark Antony is every hour in Rome"to be cast to the Lions" as the punishment for his imputed
Married to your good service, stay till death.'Mountain delivered of a Mouse,' produces the moral of his fable
Marry that will, I live and die a maid.(1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT
Mars what it does; yea, very force entangles(Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris,
May be a coward's whose ministers would prevail(Internet,  Bitnet, Compuserve, ATTMAIL or MCImail).
May be it is the period of your duty.(Internet, Bitnet, Compuserve, ATTMAIL or MCImail).
May be the amorous Count solicits her(Three Pages)
May cement their divisions, and bind up(though published after his death), for the purpose of showing
May concern Caesar.(which in truth he did, but not suspected by the audience )
May hang no longer on me. Throw my heart****   SMALL PRINT! FOR __ COMPLETE SHAKESPEARE ****
May it be gently heard. When we debate***** SMALL PRINT! for COMPLETE SHAKESPEARE *****
May justly diet me. I pray you yet-******
May make it probable need.******
May make too great an act; for learn this, Silius:*********Preface********
May not fly forth of Egypt. Hast thou affections?******This file should be named shaks12.txt or shaks12.zip*****
May prove coherent. Every night he comes*****This file should be named aesop11.txt or aesop11.zip******
May spend our wonder too, or take off thine*****This is the Project Gutenberg Etext of Aesop's Fables*****
May token to the future our past deeds.****START**THE SMALL PRINT!**FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS**START****
Mayst thou inherit too! Welcome to Paris.***End of Project Gutenberg 10th Edition of Aesop's Fables***
Me and my service, ever whilst I live,**Etexts Readable By Both Humans and By Computers, Since 1971**
Me to proclaim the truth; and I am come,**Information prepared by the Project Gutenberg legal advisor**
Means and attendants, and my loving greetings**Information prepared by the Project Gutenberg legal advisor**
Measures of wheat to Rome; this 'greed upon,**Welcome To The World of Free Plain Vanilla Electronic Texts**
Melt Egypt into Nile! and kindly creatures*BEFORE!* YOU USE OR READ THIS ETEXT
Men are to mell with, boys are not to kiss;*EITHER*:
Menas, I'll not on shore.*END*THE SMALL PRINT! FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS*Ver.03.08.92*END*
Menas; if our eyes had authority, here they might take two*Project Gutenberg is proud to cooperate with The World Library*
Menecrates and Menas, famous pirates,*These Etexts Prepared By Hundreds of Volunteers and Donations*
Mere fathers of their garments; whose constancies*This Etext has certain copyright implications you should read!*
Mesopotamia, and the shelters whither- by accident into a deep pool.  Being thus deprived of the means
Methinks I hear him now; his plausive words1.  LICENSE
Methought you saw a serpent. What's in 'mother'1.  Too many people say they are including SASLE's and aren't.
Might be a copy to these younger times;1327 A.D.  he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the
Might be my question.1609
Might be to you in Egypt. Yet, if you there1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the
Might have prevented many. Eros, ho!1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions
Might with effects of them follow our friends1865.
Might you not know she would do as she has done2.  LIMITED WARRANTY; DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES
Mine eyes did sicken at the sight and could not2.  Paper communication just takes too long when compared to the
Mine honour, it. Repent that e'er thy tongue3.  INDEMNITY: You will indemnify and hold the Project, its
Mine ransoms yours, and yours must ransom me.3.  People request disks without specifying which kind of disks,
Moist Hesperus hath quench'd his sleepy lamp,30 days of receiving it.  If you received this etext on a
More fiery by night's blackness; hereditary4.  WHAT IF YOU *WANT* TO SEND MONEY EVEN IF YOU DON'T HAVE TO?
More in their officer, than person. Sossius,5700  College  Road
More larger list of sceptres.<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
More should I question thee, and more I must,<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
More than my father's skill, which was the great'st??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri
More than they were in note. Amongst the restA BALD KNIGHT, who wore a wig, went out to hunt.  A sudden puff
More than to see this ring. Take him away.A BAT who fell upon the ground and was caught by a Weasel pleaded
More tight at this than thou. Dispatch. O love,A BEAR boasted very much of his philanthropy, saying that of all
More womanly than he; hardly gave audience, orA BEE from Mount Hymettus, the queen of the hive, ascended to
More worthy I to be beloved of thee.A BIRDCATCHER was about to sit down to a dinner of herbs when a
Morgan, whom he supposes to be a friar, from the time of hisA BITCH, ready to whelp, earnestly begged a shepherd for a place
Most fit for business. Go make thee ready;A BLIND MAN was accustomed to distinguishing different animals by
Most grossly by his own!A BOY bathing in a river was in danger of being drowned.  He
Most noble Caesar, shalt thou have reportA BOY put his hand into a pitcher full of filberts.  He grasped
Most useful for thy country.A BOY stole a lesson-book from one of his schoolfellows and took
Murder in healing wounds. Then, noble partners,A BOY was hunting for locusts.  He had caught a goodly number,
Must I be comforted, not in his sphere.A BOY was stung by a Nettle.  He ran home and told his Mother,
Must answer for your raising? I know her well:A BRAZIER had a little Dog, which was a great favorite with his
Must be digested; give a favour from you,A BULL finding a lion's cub asleep gored him to death with his
Must die for love. 'Twas pretty, though a plague,A BULL was bitten by a Mouse and, angered by the wound, tried to
Must sanctify his relics. Who comes here?A BULL was striving with all his might to squeeze himself through
Must wear your spirits low; we cannot help it.A BULL, escaping from a Lion, hid in a cave which some shepherds
My Antony is away.A CARTER was driving a wagon along a country lane, when the
My art is not past power nor you past cure.A CAT caught a Cock, and pondered how he might find a reasonable
My being here it is that holds thee hence.A CAT fell in love with a handsome young man, and entreated Venus
My better service, when my turpitudeA CAT, hearing that the Birds in a certain aviary were ailing
My bluest veins to kiss- a hand that kingsA CERTAIN HOUSE was overrun with Mice.  A Cat, discovering this,
My captain and my emperor, let me say,A CERTAIN HUNTER, having snared a hare, placed it upon his
My chastity's the jewel of our house,A CERTAIN MAN made a wooden image of Mercury and offered it for
My dearest master, your dear son, may hie.A CERTAIN MAN, detained by a storm in his country house, first of
My duty on your hand.A CERTAIN poor widow had one solitary Sheep.  At shearing time,
My fancy to your eyes. When I considerA CERTAIN rich man bought in the market a Goose and a Swan.  He
My fear hath catch'd your fondness. Now I seeA CHARCOAL-BURNER carried on his trade in his own house.  One day
My fleet hath yielded to the foe, and yonderA CHARGER, feeling the infirmities of age, was sent to work in a
My fore-past proofs, howe'er the matter fall,A COBBLER unable to make a living by his trade and made desperate
My friends were poor, but honest; so's my love.A COCK, scratching for food for himself and his hens, found a
My grieved ear withal; whereon I begg'dA CONTROVERSY prevailed among the beasts of the field as to which
My haste is very great. Farewell; hie home.A COTTAGER and his wife had a Hen that laid a golden egg every
My heart is heavy, and mine age is weak;A COUNTRY MOUSE invited a Town Mouse, an intimate friend, to pay
My heart was to thy rudder tied by th' strings,A CRAB said to her son, "Why do you walk so one-sided, my child?
My house, mine honour, yea, my life, be thine,A CRAB, forsaking the seashore, chose a neighboring green meadow
My husband hies him home; where, heaven aiding,A CROW caught in a snare prayed to Apollo to release him, making
My idleness doth hatch. How now, Enobarbus!A CROW having stolen a bit of meat, perched in a tree and held it
My latter part of life.                                 ExitA CROW in great want of food saw a Serpent asleep in a sunny
My legions and my horse; six kings alreadyA CROW perishing with thirst saw a pitcher, and hoping to find
My lord desires you presently; my newsA CROW was jealous of the Raven, because he was considered a bird
My love and her desert; that canst not dreamA DOE blind in one eye was accustomed to graze as near to the
My love as it begins shall so persever.A DOE hard pressed by hunters sought refuge in a cave belonging
My low and humble name to propagateA DOG and a Cock being great friends, agreed to travel together.
My man of men.A DOG lay in a manger, and by his growling and snapping prevented
My master, my dear lord he is; and IA DOG used to run up quietly to the heels of everyone he met, and
My mistress Cleopatra sent me to thee.A DOG, crossing a bridge over a stream with a piece of flesh in
My mistress lov'd thee, and her fortunes mingledA DOG, used to eating eggs, saw an Oyster and, opening his mouth
My mother did but duty; such, my lord,A DOVE shut up in a cage was boasting of the large number of
My mother told me just how he would woo,A FAMISHED FOX saw some clusters of ripe black grapes hanging
My mouth no more were broken than these boys',A FAMISHED WOLF was prowling about in the morning in search of
My music playing far off, I will betrayA FARMER placed nets on his newly-sown plowlands and caught a
My noble grapes, an if my royal foxA FARMER'S daughter was carrying her Pail of milk from the field
My playfellow, your hand, this kingly sealA FARMER, who bore a grudge against a Fox for robbing his poultry
My powers are crescent, and my auguring hopeA FATHER had a family of sons who were perpetually quarreling
My purposes do draw me much about.A FATHER had one son and one daughter, the former remarkable for
My reasons are most strong; and you shall know themA FATHER, being on the point of death, wished to be sure that his
My son corrupts a well-derived natureA FIR-TREE said boastingly to the Bramble, "You are useful for
My son's no dearer.A FISHERMAN skilled in music took his flute and his nets to the
My speech and what is done, tell him he hasA FISHERMAN who lived on the produce of his nets, one day caught
My suit, as I do understand, you know,A FISHERMAN, engaged in his calling, made a very successful cast
My sword, made weak by my affection, wouldA FLEA settled upon the bare foot of a Wrestler and bit him,
My treasure's in the harbour, take it. O,A FLEA thus questioned an Ox:  "What ails you, that being so huge
My very hairs do mutiny; for the whiteA FLY bit the bare head of a Bald Man who, endeavoring to destroy
Myself against the level of mine aim;A FLY sat on the axle-tree of a chariot, and addressing the
Myself in my incertain grounds to failA FOWLER caught a Partridge and was about to kill it.  The
Name Cleopatra as she is call'd in Rome.A FOWLER, taking his bird-lime and his twigs, went out to catch
Natural rebellion, done i' th' blaze of youth,A FOX and a Monkey were traveling together on the same road.  As
Nay, do so, for indeed I have lost command;A FOX caught in a trap escaped, but in so doing lost his tail.
Nay, weep not, gentle Eros; there is left usA FOX entered into partnership with a Lion on the pretense of
Necessitied to help, that by this tokenA FOX entered the house of an actor and, rummaging through all
New wars 'gainst Pompey; made his will, and read itA FOX invited a Crane to supper and provided nothing for his
Next, Cleopatra does confess thy greatness,A FOX one day fell into a deep well and could find no means of
No chance may shake it. Give me grace to layA FOX saw a Lion confined in a cage, and standing near him,
No grapes, my royal fox? Yes, but you willA FOX swimming across a rapid river was carried by the force of
No honourable trust. I have done ill,A FOX was mounting a hedge when he lost his footing and caught
No messenger but thine, and all aloneA FOX, running before the hounds, came across a Woodcutter
No more a soldier. Bruised pieces, go;A FROG once upon a time came forth from his home in the marsh and
No note upon my parents, his all noble.A Fox hearing these words said with a smile to the Bear, "Oh!
No vessel can peep forth but 'tis as soonA GNAT came and said to a Lion, "I do not in the least fear you,
No want of conscience hold it that I call,A GNAT settled on the horn of a Bull, and sat there a long time.
No wars without doors. Caesar gets money whereA GOATHERD had sought to bring back a stray goat to his flock.
No way excuse his foils when we do bearA GOATHERD, driving his flock from their pasture at eventide,
No worse a husband than the best of men;A GREAT CITY was besieged, and its inhabitants were called
Noble, courageous, high, unmatchable,A GROOM used to spend whole days in currycombing and rubbing down
Nobler than my revolt is infamous,A HALF-FAMISHED JACKDAW seated himself on a fig-tree, which had
Nor curstness grow to th' matter.A HARE one day ridiculed the short feet and slow pace of the
Nor dare I say 'tis mine, and yet it is;A HARE pounced upon by an eagle sobbed very much and uttered
Nor either cares for him.A HART, hard pressed in the chase, hid himself beneath the large
Nor make replies of loathness; take the hintA HEAVY WAGON was being dragged along a country lane by a team of
Nor would I have him till I do deserve him;A HEIFER saw an Ox hard at work harnessed to a plow, and
Not Caesar's valour hath o'erthrown Antony,A HEN finding the eggs of a viper and carefully keeping them
Not as deserv'd.A HERDSMAN tending his flock in a forest lost a Bull-calf from
Not as you serv'd the cause, but as't had beenA HORSE SOLDIER took the utmost pains with his charger.  As long
Not by the title. She is young, wise, fair;A HORSE, Ox, and Dog, driven to great straits by the cold, sought
Not fearing the displeasure of your master,A HORSE, proud of his fine trappings, met an Ass on the highway.
Not in the power on't. So our leader's led,A HOUND having started a Hare on the hillside pursued her for
Not knowing them until we know their grave.A HOUND started a Hare from his lair, but after a long run, gave
Not lack your company.A HOUND, who in the days of his youth and strength had never
Not like a formal man.A HUNTER, not very bold, was searching for the tracks of a Lion.
Not many moons gone by.A HUNTSMAN, returning with his dogs from the field, fell in by
Not mov'd by Antony.A JACKDAW, seeing some Doves in a cote abundantly provided with
Not one of those but had a noble father.A KID standing on the roof of a house, out of harm's way, saw a
Not one word more of the consumed time.A KID, returning without protection from the pasture, was pursued
Not sickness should detain me.                    [Flourish]A KING, whose only son was fond of martial exercises, had a dream
Not to consider in what case thou stand'stA KITE, sick unto death, said to his mother:  "O Mother! do not
Not to woo honour, but to wed it; whenA LAMP, soaked with too much oil and flaring brightly, boasted
Not what he knew I was. He makes me angry;A LARK had made her nest in the early spring on the young green
Note him, good Charmian; 'tis the man; but note him!A LION and a Bear seized a Kid at the same moment, and fought
Nothing acquainted with these businesses;A LION came across a Hare, who was fast asleep.  He was just in
Nothing in France until he has no wife!A LION demanded the daughter of a woodcutter in marriage.  The
Nothing more dear to me. You are abus'dA LION entered a farmyard.  The Farmer, wishing to catch him,
Now for the love of Love and her soft hours,A LION roaming by the seashore saw a Dolphin lift up its head out
Now hazarded to thy grace.A LION was awakened from sleep by a Mouse running over his face. Rising
Now his important blood will nought denyA LION, entering the workshop of a smith, sought from the tools
Now leaves him.A LION, fatigued by the heat of a summer's day, fell fast asleep
Now like a man of steel. You that will fight,A LION, greatly desiring to capture a Bull, and yet afraid to
Now the witch take me if I meant it thus!A LION, growing old, lay sick in his cave.  All the beasts came
Now will I charge you in the band of truth,A LION, roaming through a forest, trod upon a thorn.  Soon
O Antony! O Antony!                                   [Dies]A LION, unable from old age and infirmities to provide himself
O cunning love, with tears thou keep'st me blind,A LION, worn out with years and powerless from disease, lay on
O happy horse, to bear the weight of Antony!A MAN and a Lion traveled together through the forest.  They soon
O heavenly mingle! Be'st thou sad or merry,A MAN and a Satyr once drank together in token of a bond of
O infinite virtue, com'st thou smiling fromA MAN came into a forest and asked the Trees to provide him a
O misery on't!- the wise gods seel our eyes,A MAN committed a murder, and was pursued by the relations of the
O my dear mother, do I see you living?A MAN had a Wife who made herself hated by all the members of his
O sun, thy uprise shall I see no more!A MAN had an Ass, and a Maltese Lapdog, a very great beauty.  The
O this false soul of Egypt! this grave charm-A MAN had two Gamecocks in his poultry-yard.  One day by chance
O! from Italy?A MAN had two daughters, the one married to a gardener, and the
O' th' world, I would pursue it.A MAN had two dogs:  a Hound, trained to assist him in his sports,
O'er whom both sovereign power and father's voiceA MAN once kept a Goat and an Ass.  The Goat, envying the Ass on
O'er your content these strong necessities,A MAN who had been bitten by a Dog went about in quest of someone
O'erbears it and burns on.A MAN who had traveled in foreign lands boasted very much, on
O'erflows the measure. Those his goodly eyes,A MAN wished to purchase an Ass, and agreed with its owner that
O'erpicturing that Venus where we seeA MAN, very much annoyed with a Flea, caught him at last, and
O, come, Ventidius,A MIDDLE-AGED MAN, whose hair had begun to turn gray, courted two
O, he has given example for our flightA MILLER and his son were driving their Ass to a neighboring fair
O, my oblivion is a very Antony,A MISER sold all that he had and bought a lump of gold, which he
O, thy vile lady!A MOLE, a creature blind from birth, once said to his Mother:  "I
Obey it on all cause.A MONKEY once danced in an assembly of the Beasts, and so pleased
Obey our will, which travails in thy good;A MONKEY perched upon a lofty tree saw some Fishermen casting
Octavia to his wife; whose beauty claimsA MOUNTAIN was once greatly agitated.  Loud groans and noises
Of Antony's death.                            [Kills himselfA MOUSE who always lived on the land, by an unlucky chance formed
Of Cappadocia; Philadelphos, kingA MULE, frolicsome from lack of work and from too much corn,
Of Cneius Pompey's, besides what hotter hours,A MULETEER set forth on a journey, driving before him an Ass and
Of Comagene; Polemon and Amyntas,A NIGHTINGALE, sitting aloft upon an oak and singing according to
Of Mars's fiery steed. To other regions!A NUMBER of Flies were attracted to a jar of honey which had been
Of Paphlagonia; the Thracian king, Adallas;A PANTHER, by some mischance, fell into a pit.  The Shepherds
Of Sicily, Sardinia; and I mustA PEACOCK spreading its gorgeous tail mocked a Crane that passed
Of a detesting lord.A PEASANT found an Eagle captured in a trap, and much admiring
Of all thy sex; most monster-like, be shownA PEASANT had in his garden an Apple-Tree which bore no fruit but
Of audience nor desire shall fail, so sheA PEDDLER drove his Ass to the seashore to buy salt.  His road
Of better deeds to-morrow. Rest you happy!            ExeuntA PHILOSOPHER witnessed from the shore the shipwreck of a vessel,
Of both is flatter'd; but he neither loves,A PIGEON, oppressed by excessive thirst, saw a goblet of water
Of colour, weight, and heat, pour'd all together,A PRINCE had some Monkeys trained to dance.  Being naturally
Of every line and trick of his sweet favour.A RAVEN saw a Swan and desired to secure for himself the same
Of excellent dissembling, and let it lookA RICH MAN gave a great feast, to which he invited many friends
Of fortunate Caesar, drawn before him, brandedA RICH MAN lived near a Tanner, and not being able to bear the
Of greatest justice. Write, write, Rinaldo,A RICH NOBLEMAN once opened the theaters without charge to the
Of heaven, not me, make an experiment.A RIVER carried down in its stream two Pots, one made of
Of her I am to speak.A SAILOR, bound on a long voyage, took with him a Monkey to amuse
Of her that threw it. Noble she was, and thoughtA SEAGULL having bolted down too large a fish, burst its deep
Of his profession, that his good receiptA SERPENT and an Eagle were struggling with each other in deadly
Of honour'd bones indeed. What should be said?A SHEPHERD driving his Sheep to a wood, saw an oak of unusual
Of hot and cold; he was nor sad nor merry.A SHEPHERD penning his sheep in the fold for the night was about
Of late upon me. I must thank him only,A SHEPHERD, keeping watch over his sheep near the shore, saw the
Of lower Syria, Cyprus, Lydia,A SHEPHERD, watching his Ass feeding in a meadow, was alarmed all
Of many our contriving friends in RomeA SHEPHERD-BOY, who watched a flock of sheep near a village,
Of many thousand kisses the poor lastA SHIPWRECKED MAN, having been cast upon a certain shore, slept
Of me for jests; but now I'll set my teeth,A SICK STAG lay down in a quiet corner of its pasture-ground.
Of my dear father's gift stands chief in power,A SNAKE, having made his hole close to the porch of a cottage,
Of noble bachelors stand at my bestowing,A STAG asked a Sheep to lend him a measure of wheat, and said
Of pretty, fond, adoptious christendomsA STAG overpowered by heat came to a spring to drink.  Seeing his
Of rare and prov'd effects, such as his readingA STAG, roundly chased by the hounds and blinded by fear to the
Of richest eyes; whose words all ears took captive;A SWALLOW, returning from abroad and especially fond of dwelling
Of semblable import- but he hath wag'dA THIEF came in the night to break into a house.  He brought with
Of six preceding ancestors, that gemA THIEF hired a room in a tavern and stayed a while in the hope
Of smoky muskets? O you leaden messengers,A THRUSH was feeding on a myrtle-tree and did not move from it
Of stirs abroad, I shall beseech you, sir,A TORTOISE, lazily basking in the sun, complained to the
Of that and all the progress, more and less,A TRAVELER about to set out on a journey saw his Dog stand at the
Of the adjacent wharfs. The city castA TRAVELER hired an Ass to convey him to a distant place.  The
Of the full-fortun'd Caesar ever shallA TRAVELER wearied from a long journey lay down, overcome with
Of the great Count himself, she is too meanA TROUBLESOME CROW seated herself on the back of a Sheep.  The
Of the last monarchy-see that you comeA TRUMPETER, bravely leading on the soldiers, was captured by the
Of the non-sparing war? And is it IA VERY HUNGRY FOX, seeing some bread and meat left by shepherds
Of the poor suppliant, who by this, I know,A VERY LARGE OAK was uprooted by the wind and thrown across a
Of the rang'd empire fall! Here is my space.A VERY POOR MAN, a Carpenter by trade, had a wooden image of
Of those that serv'd Mark Antony but lateA VERY SKILLFUL BOWMAN went to the mountains in search of game,
Of us and those that love you. Best of comfort,A VINE was luxuriant in the time of vintage with leaves and
Of us must Pompey presently be sought,A WALNUT TREE standing by the roadside bore an abundant crop of
Of us that trade in love.A WASP seated himself upon the head of a Snake and, striking him
Of virtue for the name; but do not so.A WAYFARING MAN, traveling in the desert, met a woman standing
Of war-mark'd footmen; leave unexecutedA WEASEL, inactive from age and infirmities, was not able to
Of what I have begun.A WIDOW who was fond of cleaning had two little maidens to wait
Of what I spoke, unpitied let me die;A WILD ASS and a Lion entered into an alliance so that they might
Of what I was i' th' morning; but next dayA WILD BOAR stood under a tree and rubbed his tusks against the
Of what hath come to pass; for when she saw-A WIZARD, sitting in the marketplace, was telling the fortunes of
Of what he has and has not.A WOLF accused a Fox of theft, but the Fox entirely denied the
Of what should stead her most?A WOLF coming out of a field of oats met a Horse and thus
Of which I do accuse myself so sorelyA WOLF followed a flock of sheep for a long time and did not
Of worthy Frenchmen; let higher Italy-A WOLF pursued a Lamb, which fled for refuge to a certain Temple.
Of younger spirits, whose apprehensive sensesA WOLF saw a Goat feeding at the summit of a steep precipice,
Of your infirmity?A WOLF who had a bone stuck in his throat hired a Crane, for a
Of youth and ignorance; both my revenge and hateA WOLF, having stolen a lamb from a fold, was carrying him off to
Of youth upon him; from which the world should noteA WOLF, meeting a big well-fed Mastiff with a wooden collar about
Off, pluck off!A WOLF, passing by, saw some Shepherds in a hut eating a haunch
Offence of mighty note; but to himselfA WOLF, sorely wounded and bitten by dogs, lay sick and maimed in
Oft does them by the weakest minister.A WOMAN possessed a Hen that gave her an egg every day.  She
Oft expectation fails, and most oft thereA WORKMAN, felling wood by the side of a river, let his axe drop
Oft our displeasures, to ourselves unjust,A YOUNG FAWN once said to his Mother, "You are larger than a dog,
On blossoming Caesar; and this pine is bark'dA YOUNG MAN, a great spendthrift, had run through all his
On more mechanic compliment; I'll leave theeA YOUNG PIG was shut up in a fold-yard with a Goat and a Sheep.
On my free will. My lord, Mark Antony,A false tale often betrays itself.
On my particular. Prepar'd I was notA man is known by the company he keeps.
On pain of punishment, the world to weetA veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as
On the catastrophe and heel of pastime,A willful man will have his way to his own hurt.
On the opposer.A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in
Once for thy sprightly comfort, and tenfoldABOUT PROJECT GUTENBERG-TM ETEXTS
Once name you derogately when to sound your nameACCORDING to an ancient legend, the first man was made by
One ever near thee. Call for Enobarbus,ALL the Goods were once driven out by the Ills from that common
One of my place in Syria, his lieutenant,AN AMARANTH planted in a garden near a Rose-Tree, thus addressed
One of the greatest in the Christian worldAN ANT went to the bank of a river to quench its thirst, and
Only my plague thus far I count my gain,AN ARAB CAMEL-DRIVER, after completing the loading of his Camel,
Only th' adulterous Antony, most largeAN ASS and a Cock were in a straw-yard together when a Lion,
Only to seem to deserve well, and to beguile the supposition ofAN ASS besought a Horse to spare him a small portion of his feed.
Only, in this disguise, I think't no sinAN ASS climbed up to the roof of a building, and frisking about
Or I will throw thee from my care for everAN ASS congratulated a Horse on being so ungrudgingly and
Or I'll unpeople Egypt.                               ExeuntAN ASS feeding in a meadow saw a Wolf approaching to seize him,
Or bathe my dying honour in the bloodAN ASS having heard some Grasshoppers chirping, was highly
Or being, concern you not.AN ASS once carried through the streets of a city a famous wooden
Or did it from his teeth.AN ASS, being driven along a high road, suddenly started off and
Or does he walk? or is he on his horse?AN ASS, belonging to an herb-seller who gave him too little food
Or else he seeks out us.AN ASS, carrying a load of wood, passed through a pond.  As he
Or foison follow. The higher Nilus swellsAN ASS, having put on the Lion's skin, roamed about in the forest
Or four and twenty times the pilot's glassAN ASTRONOMER used to go out at night to observe the stars.  One
Or friends with Caesar, or not captive to him,AN EAGLE and a Fox formed an intimate friendship and decided to
Or lose myself in dotage.AN EAGLE made her nest at the top of a lofty oak; a Cat, having
Or murmuring 'Where's my serpent of old Nile?'AN EAGLE sat on a lofty rock, watching the movements of a Hare
Or needs not us. If Caesar please, our masterAN EAGLE stayed his flight and entreated a Lion to make an
Or take his life there. This if she perform,AN EAGLE was once captured by a man, who immediately clipped his
Or thou, the greatest soldier of the world,AN EAGLE, flying down from his perch on a lofty rock, seized upon
Or thy precedent services are allAN EAGLE, overwhelmed with sorrow, sat upon the branches of a
Or would have done't myself. Your emperorAN OLD MAN was employed in cutting wood in the forest, and, in
Or, ere they meet, in me, O nature, cesse!AN OLD WOMAN found an empty jar which had lately been full of
Our blood to us, this to our blood is born.AN OLD WOMAN having lost the use of her eyes, called in a
Our faith mere folly. Yet he that can endureAN OWL, accustomed to feed at night and to sleep during the day,
Our great competitor. From AlexandriaAN OWL, in her wisdom, counseled the Birds that when the acorn
Our great self and our credit to esteemAN OX drinking at a pool trod on a brood of young frogs and
Our landmen will stand up.AND IS PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF
Our letters are prepar'd.                   Exeunt MESSENGERARE MADE TO YOU AS TO THE ETEXT OR ANY MEDIUM IT MAY BE ON,
Our lives upon to use our strongest hands.AS-IS".  NO OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
Our means will make us means.AT ONE TIME a very large and strong Wolf was born among the
Our navy thrive, I have an absolute hopeAT ONE TIME the Horse had the plain entirely to himself.  Then a
Our nineteen legions thou shalt hold by land,Abstain and enjoy.
Our own love waking cries to see what's done,Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these
Our quick remove from hence.Acquaintance softens prejudices.
Our separation so abides and fliesAesop are interwoven with his fables that distinguishes him, and
Our services awhile; but my full heartAesop for the immediate purpose of reconciling the inhabitants of
Our slow designs when we ourselves are dull.Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among
Our strength is all gone into heaviness;Aesop's Fables Translated by George Fyler Townsend
Our targes undinted.Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely
Our trivial difference loud, we do commitAesop.  Although the honor thus claimed cannot be definitely
Our waggon is prepar'd, and time revives us.Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to
Our will is Antony be took alive;Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to
Our written purposes before us sent;Aesopo ingentem statuam posuere Attici,
Ours be your patience then, and yours our parts;Afraid the dream should prove true, he built for his son a
Ourselves alone. I'll write it. Follow me.After he told him his misfortune, Mercury plunged into the
Ourselves to end ourselves.All communication to Project Gutenberg should be carried out via
Out of a casement.All donations should be made to "Project Gutenberg/IBC", and are
Out of our question wipe him.All donations should be made to "Project Gutenberg/IBC", and are
Out of the host. I must attend mine office,Among other things, he said that when he was at Rhodes he had
Out of the mind.An Eagle, hovering near, heard her lamentation and demanded what
Out-go my thinking on you.And thus his trick recoiled on him, for he now carried on his
Pack'd cards with Caesar, and false-play'd my gloryAnd, lastly, the Owl, seeing an archer approach, predicted that
Patient Octavia plough thy visage upAndronicus the elder, and who wrote in the early part of the
Pawn their experience to their present pleasure,Archdeacon Croxall as the introduction to his edition of Aesop.
Pays this for Marcus Crassus.As these thoughts passed through his mind, he met an Elephant and
Perforce am thine and all that is in me.As to every real and alleged Defect in this etext and any medium
Perform't, or else we damn thee.'Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in
Petition us at home. Sextus PompeiusAside from this limited warranty, THIS ETEXT IS PROVIDED TO YOU
Plant those that have revolted in the vant,Ass gave the Lion the benefit of his greater speed.  When they
Pleas'd fortune does of Marcus Crassus' deathAss home and put him in the straw-yard with his other Asses, upon
Please it this matron and this gentle maidAss only, and not his Shadow.  The Traveler asserted that he had,
Please it your Majesty, I have done already.Ass was left in a stable and had plenty of oats and hay to eat,
Pompey doth this day laugh away his fortune.Ass, seeing him drawing a dungcart, thus derided him:  "Where, O
Pompey the Great and all his dignitiesAss."
Pour out the pack of matter to mine ear,Association / Illinois Benedictine College".
Praying for both parts.At last she turned away, hiding her disappointment and saying:
Prays, and destroys the prayer; no mid-wayAt last, having long waited in vain, he laid aside his flute, and
Prejudicates the business, and would seemAt nightfall they took shelter in a thick wood.  The Cock flying
Prithee, how many boys and wenches must I have?Athenian.  The latter replied that he was, and that he was
Proffers not took reap thanks for their reward.Athens, the work of Lysippus, one of the most famous of Greek
Proportion'd to our cause, must be as greatAttempt not impossibilities.
Proud and disdainful, harping on what I am,Attmail:     internet!vmd.cso.uiuc.edu!HART
Proud scornful boy, unworthy this good gift,Avoid a remedy that is worse than the disease.
Prove that I husbanded her bed in Florence,B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died
Prove this a prosp'rous day, the three-nook'd worldBE MADE FOR *ANY* ACCESS TO THIS MATERIAL.  YOU ARE ENCOURAGED!!
Publicola, and Caelius are for sea;BREACH OF WARRANTY OR CONTRACT, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
Purple the sails, and so perfumed thatBabrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860.
Pursuit would be but vain.Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam
Put colour in thy cheek.Be on guard against men who can strike from a distance.
Put garlands on thy head.Benedictine College).  (Subscriptions to our paper newsletter go
Put me to some impatience. Though I loseBenedictine College).  (Subscriptions to our paper newsletter go
Quarter'd the world, and o'er green Neptune's backBenefits bestowed upon the evil-disposed increase their means of
Quicken a rock, and make you dance canaryBetter poverty without care, than riches with.
Quicken with kissing. Had my lips that power,Birds of a feather flock together.
Rail thou in Fulvia's phrase, and taunt my faultsBirds!"  This he said deceitfully; but the Crow, anxious to refute
Rais'd by your populous troops. But you are comeBitnet:      hart@uiucvmd or hart@uiucvmd.bitnet
Ram thou thy fruitful tidings in mine ears,Bracciolini, by the Rev.  William Shepherd.  Liverpool.  1801.
Rather corrupt me ever!Brass Pot, "Pray keep at a distance and do not come near me, for
Rather in power than use, and keep thy friendBuffoon had given a far more exact imitation, and clamored for
Rather than purchas'd; what he cannot changeBull."
Read not my blemishes in the world's report.But when the toothless, clawless Lion returned to repeat his
Receive the ring again.By using or reading any part of the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext
Religious in mine error, I adoreCOMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
Remain in't as thou mayst.COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
Remain there but an hour, nor speak to me:CONTRACT, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL,
Remains in use with you. Our ItalyCat, quite forgetting her present condition, started up from the
Report the feature of Octavia, her years,Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West-
Reports but coarsely of her.Champaign, IL 61825
Reprove the brown for rashness, and they themChange of habit cannot alter Nature.
Requires to live in Egypt; which not granted,Children are not to be blamed for the faults of their parents.
Resolv'd to carry her. Let her in fine consent,Cistercian monk, under the title of "Dialogus Miraculorum,"
Resolvedly more leisure shall express.Cobbler's antidote, commanding him to drink it on the promise of
Restores his heart. When valour preys on reason,Cock skulked away and hid himself in a quiet corner, while the
Returns us thanks.CompuServe:  72600,2026
Rich in his father's honour, creeps apaceCompuserve:  >internet:hart@vmd.cso.uiuc.edu
Rich pearls upon thee.Contentment with our lot is an element of happiness.
Rid all the sea of pirates; then to sendCorrected EDITIONS of our etexts get a new NUMBER, shaks13.txt
Ride on the pants triumphing.Corrected EDITIONS of our etexts get a new NUMBER, xxxxx11.txt.
Rinaldo, you did never lack advice so muchCounsel without help is useless.
Rise from thy stool.Count the cost before you commit yourselves.
Room for six scotches more.Country Mouse, being much delighted at the sight of such good
Rust, sword; cool, blushes; and, Parolles, liveCountryman than to see the spectacle.  Both of the performers
SCARUS. I'll halt after.                              ExeuntCrow," he exclaimed, in the beauty of her shape and in the
SECOND LORD. O, 'tis brave wars!Crow:  "My good Crow, your voice is right enough, but your wit is
Safer than mine own two, more dear. I have so:D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction
Safest in shame. Being fool'd, by fool'ry thrive.DISCLAIMER
Salt Cleopatra, soften thy wan'd lip!DISTRIBUTED OR USED COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL
Say 'I am none of thine.'DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
Say 'the brave Antony.'DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
Say I am dancing; if in mirth, reportDISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD
Say that I wish he never find more causeDISTRIBUTION UNDER "PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm"
Say that the last I spoke was 'Antony'David Turner, Project Gutenberg
Say they know not, they cannot tell; look grimly,Defects.  Such person will give you, in his or its discretion, a
Say thou, shall call her mistress.' So he nodded,Deities of the forest.  Not long afterwards, as he ascended a
Say to Ventidius I would speak with him.Despite these efforts, the Project's etexts and any medium they
Say to great Caesar this: in deputationDictionnaire Historique.  Art.  Esope.
Say what I think of it, since I have foundDo not attempt to hide things which cannot be hid.
Says it will come to th' full. Mark AntonyDo not attempt too much at once.
Scant not my cups, and make as much of meDo not be in a hurry to change one evil for another.
Scorn'd a fair colour or express'd it stol'n,Do nothing without a regard to the consequences.
Sear'd otherwise; ne worse of worst-extendedDog that bit you."  The Man who had been bitten laughed at this
Sebastian, so many; Corambus, so many; Jaques, so many; Guiltian,Dog to get his larger piece from him.  He thus lost both:  that
See it so grossly shown in thy behavioursDolphin gladly consented to this request.  Not long afterwards
See when and where she died.Dolphin saw the Monkey contending with the waves, and supposing
Seeming to bear it lightly. Take me up.Dolphin then inquired if he knew the Piraeus (the famous harbor
Seems much unequal. He's married to Octavia.Domini 1632.  The later investigations of a host of English and
Send for your ring, I will return it home,Don't make much ado about nothing.
Send forth your amorous token for fair Maudlin.Doves, he returned to the Jackdaws.  They too, not recognizing
Serves for the matter that is then born in't.Drafted by CHARLES B. KRAMER, Attorney
Sextus Pompeius spoil'd, we had not rated himDraught-Mule said, "How slow you are! Why do you not go faster?
Shake thou to look on't. Get thee back to Caesar;Duplex libelli dos est:  quod risum movet,
Shall I do that which all the Parthian darts,EVERY MAN, according to an ancient legend, is born into the world
Shall I stay here to do 't? No, no, althoughEach was so well pleased with his bargain that they made for some
Shall all be done by th' rule. Good night, dear lady.Eagle let the bundle fall again.  Taking it up, the man returned
Shall be for me, and, to requite you further,Eagle, "the faithful fulfillment of your promise to me?'  The Kite
Shall be my surety; fore whose throne 'tis needful,East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations,
Shall bear the olive freely.Elephant."
Shall die a beggar. Ink and paper, Charmian.Email requests to:
Shall enter me with him.Emperor Andronicus the Elder.  This brought him into immediate
Shall fall you for refusing him at sea,Emperor Valentinian, and the latest poet of eminence in the
Shall for my legacy be sanctifiedEpiscopi:  alias quadripartitus apologeticus vocatus, in cujus
Shall furnish me to those Italian fieldsEquals make the best friends.
Shall have the fame. I have heard that Julius CaesarEt quod prudenti vitam consilio monet.
Shall make it live again. Woo't thou fight well?Every man for himself.
Shall make me live. Who knows himself a braggart,Every man should be content to mind his own business.
Shall make thy peace for moving me to rage;Every tale is not to be believed.
Shall more attend upon the coming space,Everyone is more or less master of his own fate.
Shall never find it more.Evil companions bring more hurt than profit.
Shall not make poor my greatness, nor my powerEvil tendencies are shown in early life.
Shall on them settle. You know your places well;Evil wishes, like chickens, come home to roost.
Shall outstrike thought; but thought will do't, I feel.Example is more powerful than precept.
Shall pass on thy approof. Most noble Antony,FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
Shall seem expedient on the now-born brief,FOOTNOTES
Shall set thee on triumphant chariots andFTP directly to the Project Gutenberg archives:
Shall stain your brother. Make your soonest haste;FTP directly to the Project Gutenberg archives:
Shall stay with us- Order for sea is given;Fables of Aesop examined.  By the Honorable Charles Boyle.
Shall tax my fears of little vanity,Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D.
Shall we dance now the Egyptian BacchanalsFables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was
Shall weigh thee to the beam; that wilt not knowFables of Aesop.
Share the advice betwixt you; if both gain all,Fables of Aesop.  During this long period these fables seem to
Share with thy birthright! Love all, trust a few,Fables.
Sharpen with cloyless sauce his appetite,Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the
She had dispos'd with Caesar, and that your rageFabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et
She had her breeding at my father's charge.Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.
She has robb'd me of my sword.Fair weather friends are not worth much.
She hath betray'd me, and shall die the death.False confidence often leads into danger.
She knew her distance, and did angle for me,Farmer and besought him to give them some water to drink.  They
She made great Caesar lay his sword to bed.Father, unwilling to grant, and yet afraid to refuse his request,
She might have been o'er ta'en; and yet she writesFearing for their lives, the Mice kept themselves close in their
She shall not sue unheard. So to them both.Files by the December 31, 2001.  [10,000 x 100,000,000=Trillion]
She shows a body rather than a life,Files by the December 31, 2001.  [10,000 x 100,000,000=Trillion]
She was a widow.Fine feathers don't make fine birds.
Shines o'er with civil swords: Sextus PompeiusFir-Tree."
Should be depos'd; and, being, that we detainFlea a second time hopped upon his foot, he groaned and said, "O
Should conquer Antony; but woe 'tis so!For if you use your sting, it shall remain in the wound you make,
Should have an army for an usher, andFor these and other matters, please mail to:
Should have ascended to the roof of heaven,Fox accumulated all that they had killed into one large heap and
Should have borne men, and expectation fainted,Fox came in and heard these last words of the Wolf.  The Lion
Should my performance perish.Fox crept in and hid himself in a corner.  The huntsman soon came
Should say myself offended, and with youFox gobbled them up.
Should solder up the rift.Fox heard the sound, and wishing to make a breakfast on him, came
Show me the way of yielding.Fox, envying him the honor, discovered a piece of meat lying in a
Shrewdness of policy too- I grieving grantFoxes that being tailless was much more attractive, thus making
Since I have lost, have lov'd, was in mine eyeFrankfort, 1610.
Since I nor wax nor honey can bring home,Frog first of all led his friend the Mouse to the meadow where
Since Pompey's feast, as Menas says, is troubledFrog, being still fastened to the leg of the Mouse, was also
Since my appeal says I did strive to proveFrogs lying on the banks of the lake heard the noise of their
Since my becomings kill me when they do notG.F.T.
Since saucy jacks so happy are in this,GENCE OR UNDER STRICT LIABILITY, OR FOR BREACH OF WARRANTY OR
Since she was Cleopatra? Whip him, fellows,GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND
Since the first father wore it. This ring he holdsGET 0INDEX.GUT
Since the physician at your father's died?GET INDEX and AAINDEX
Since then hath made between them. Unto herGET NEW GUT for general information
Since you are like to see the King before me,GET NEW GUT for general information
Since you lack virtue, I will lose a husband-Gaspard Bachet de Mezeriac, who declined the honor of being
Since you set up your rest 'gainst remedy.German scholars have added very little to the facts given by M.
Sir, you and I have lov'd- but there's not it.Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and
Sir, you and I must part- but that's not it.Goats you have had so long, it is plain also that if others came
Sit laurel victory, and smooth successGoddess, to console him, said, "But you far excel in beauty and
Sit, my preserver, by thy patient's side;Guardian Deities of the forest if I could only find out who had
Sits in the wind against me.                          ExeuntHappy is the man who learns from the misfortunes of others.
Skill infinite or monstrous desperate.Hare timid, the Lion bold, the Wolf cruel, the Bull strong, the
Smarting in ling'ring pickle.Harm hatch, harm catch.
Smile upon this contract; whose ceremonyHarm seek.  harm find.
So 'tis our will he should.Having done so, they found to their surprise that the Hen
So Antony loves.He asked a man felling oaks in the forest if he had seen any
So I return rebuked to my content,He felt it, and being in doubt, said:  "I do not quite know
So I were not his sister. Can't no other,He found a serpent in the upper branches of the tree, and again
So bad an instrument; his name's Parolles.He greatly lamented his fate, saying, "Woe is me! that I, who can
So diff'ring in their acts. Yet if I knewHe is not to be trusted as a friend who mistreats his own family.
So does it no man else. Met'st thou my posts?He is wise who is warned by the misfortunes of others.
So far ask pardon as befits mine honourHe met at the court of Croesus with Solon, Thales, and other
So good as you have done.He paid no attention to their request, but gave the tree a second
So great weight in his lightness. If he fill'dHe whistled and sounded his horn in vain; the straggler paid no
So half my Egypt were submerg'd and madeHe who shares the danger ought to share the prize.
So holy writ in babes hath judgment shown,He-Goats were sorely displeased and made complaint that the
So in approof lives not his epitaphHercules and the Wagoner
So is he, being a man.Hercules the poplar.  Minerva, wondering why they had preferred
So like a courtier, contempt nor bitternessHercules! if you will not help me against a Flea, how can I hope
So make the choice of thy own time, for I,His companions came in great numbers to inquire after his health,
So many mermaids, tended her i' th' eyes,Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the
So mightily betray'd! Yet at the firstHorse proud, and the Ass patient.  Many of these fables are
So much as lank'd not.Horse replied, "If oats had been the food of wolves, you would
So much unsettled. This drives me to entreat youHypocritical speeches are easily seen through.
So saucy with the hand of she here- what's her nameI assure you, sooner burst than successfully imitate the hugeness
So shall thou feed on death, that feeds on men,I came! I do not often get such a chance as this.  I will take
So stain our judgment, or corrupt our hope,I die I would ask of you one favor you will play me a tune to
So strive upon your pulse. What! pale again?I know full well.  It would not be safe to admit him to the
So that my lord your son were not my brother-I lost the use of my eyes, I saw in my house various chattels and
So the poor third is up, till death enlarge his confine.I see no trace of any returning."
So there's my riddle: one that's dead is quick-I see you I shall remember the loss of my tail, and whenever you
So will I pray that thou mayst have thy Will,IF YOU DISTRIBUTE THIS ETEXT
So your desires are yours.ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE WITH PERMISSION.
So, so. Come, give me that. This way. Well said.IN THE WINTERTIME, a Dog curled up in as small a space as
Some dishonour we had in the loss of that drum; but it is not toINCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR
Some ditch wherein to die; the foul'st best fitsINDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF
Some monstrous malefactor. Prithee, friend,IS NEITHER SHAREWARE NOR PUBLIC DOMAIN. . .AND UNDER THE LIBRARY
Some private speech with you.If men had all they wished, they would be often ruined.
Some shipping, unrestor'd. Lastly, he fretsIf words suffice not, blows must follow.
Some way to leave him.                                  ExitIf you discover a Defect in this etext within 90 days of receiv-
Something in my behalf.If you had but touched me, my friend, you would have lost me, and
Something particular. His coin, ships, legions,If you have an FTP program (or emulator), please
Something to save thy life.If you have an FTP program (or emulator), please:
Speaks to atone you.If you received it electronically and it is incomplete, inaccu-
Spending his manly marrow in her arms,If you received this etext in a physical medium, and the medium
Splits what it speaks. The wild disguise hath almostIf you would like further information about World Library, Inc.
Spoke scandy of me; when perforce he could notIllinois  Benedictine  College
Spoke with the King, and have procur'd his leaveIllinois Benedictine College unless via email.  This is for help
Steals ere we can effect them. You rememberImage, to be placed in one of its Temples.  As he passed along,
Stomach not all. A more unhappy lady,In a change of government the poor change nothing beyond the name
Stood pretty dimpled boys, like smiling Cupids,In avoiding one evil, care must be taken not to fall into
Straight how 'tis like to go.                           ExitIn quarreling about the shadow we often lose the substance.
Strange that his power should be. Canidius,In serving the wicked, expect no reward, and be thankful if you
Strangers and foes do sunder and not kiss.In this consists the superiority of the Fable over the Tale or
Strength'ned with what apology you thinkInformation about Project Gutenberg (one page)
Subdu'd me to her rate. She got the ring;Information about Project Gutenberg (one page)
Subdue my worthiest self. The witch shall die.Information on contacting Project Gutenberg to get Etexts, and
Submits her to thy might, and of thee cravesInnkeeper dressed in a new and handsome coat and sitting before
Such were our faults, or then we thought them none.Innkeeper, frightened lest he should be attacked, left his new
Sufficing strokes for death.Innkeeper.  hearing his tale and believing what he said, became
Supposing that I lack'd it. But on, Caesar:Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a
Sure, they are bastards to the English; the French ne'er got 'em.Internet (72600.2026@compuserve.com); TEL: (212-254-5093)
Sweep your way for you. Pray you look not sad,Internet:    hart@vmd.cso.uiuc.edu
Sweet practiser, thy physic I will try,It bears no fruit, and is not of the least service to man."  The
Swell with the touches of those flower-soft handsIt is absurd to ape our betters.
Syria, Cilicia, and Phoenicia. SheIt is easy to kick a man that is down.
Take but good note, and you shall see in himIt is far more becoming to go straight forward."  The young Crab
Take from his heart, take from his brain, from's time,It is wise to turn circumstances to good account.
Take hence this Jack and whip him.It matters little if those who are inferior to us in merit should
Take in that kingdom and enfranchise that;It shows an evil disposition to take advantage of a friend in
Taken as seen; for Pompey's name strikes moreIt sometimes happens that one man has all the toil, and another
Tawny-finn'd fishes; my bended hook shall pierceItalian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of
Tell him from his all-obeying breath I hearItalian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the
Tell him thy entertainment; look thou sayJUPITER DETERMINED, it is said, to create a sovereign over the
Tell them your feats; whilst they with joyful tearsJUPITER ISSUED a proclamation to all the beasts of the forest and
Ten thousand harms, more than the ills I know,James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College,
Tend me to-night two hours, I ask no more,January, 1994  [Etext #100]
Th' Antoniad, the Egyptian admiral,July, 1849.
Th' ambition in my love thus plagues itself:Jupiter and the Monkey
Th' inaudible and noiseless foot of TimeJupiter replied, "It is lest we should seem to covet the honor
Th' incensing relics of it; let him approach,Jupiter, "My daughter, you are rightly called wise; for unless
Th' inevitable prosecution ofJupiter, Neptune, Minerva, and Momus
Than Cleopatra, nor the queen of PtolemyJupiter, delighted with the offering of honey, promised to give
Than I dare blame my weakness. Will you see her,Jupiter, disturbed by the noise of their croaking, inquired the
Than I have in this ring. 'Twas mine, 'twas Helen's,Jupiter, the Jackdaw also made his appearance in his many
Than Telamon for his shield; the boar of ThessalyJupiter, the first bull by Neptune, and the first house by
Than by the negligent.Just as he was about to fly off, he made a buzzing noise, and
Than could his war resisted.King, as soon as he heard the tale, ordered the Lion to be set
Than death and honour. Let's to supper, come,Kite, "I am much stronger than you are."  "Why, are you able to
Than drink so much in one.LIFE OF AESOP
Than for to think that I would sink it here.LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
Than gain which darkens him.Lamb the Wolf's right to eat him.  He thus addressed him:
Than greatness going off.Latin prose, some of these fables.  This translation is the more
Than in my thought it lies!Lewis.  Oxford, 1846.
Than is his use.Library of the Future and Shakespeare CDROMS.  Project Gutenberg
Than our fore-goers. The mere word's a slave,Library of the Future is a TradeMark (TM) of World Library Inc.
Than savages could suffer. Thou didst drinkLike will draw like.
Than she which by her death our Caesar tellsLion and the Bear saw him, but not being able to get up, said,
Than that which is to approach.Lion devoured them.  After many of the beasts had thus
Than those I shed for him. What was he like?Lion on its bank and being fearfully afraid, climbed up a tree.
Than was his loss, to course your flying flagsLion replied:  "This statue was made by one of you men.  If we
Than what he chooses.Lion."
Than with an old one dying.Lions knew how to erect statues, you would see the Man placed
Than yours so branchless. But, as you requested,Lisle, IL 60532-0900
That Antony may seem to spend his furyLittle liberties are great offenses.
That I am sudden sick. Quick, and return.        Exit ALEXASLook before you leap.
That I may not be so, nor thou belied,Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by
That I protest I simply am a maid.MACHINE READABLE COPIES OF THIS ETEXT, SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES
That I should love a bright particular starMCImail:  ADDRESS TYPE: MCI / EMS: INTERNET / MBX: hart@vmd.cso.uiuc.edu
That I will joy no more.MERCURY ONCE DETERMINED to learn in what esteem he was held among
That I will work against him. Therefore your oathsMGET GUT* for newsletters.
That Lepidus of the triumvirateMGET GUT* for newsletters.
That Photinus an eunuch and your maidsMS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.
That all men follow.Man."  The traveler pointed to it and said:  "See there! How strong
That all the miseries which nature owesMelancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the
That am with Phoebus' amorous pinches black,Men of evil reputation, when they perform a good deed, fail to
That art not what th'art sure of! Get thee hence.Men often bear little grievances with less courage than they do
That barefoot plod I the cold ground upon,Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public
That before you, and next unto high heaven,Mercury and the Sculptor
That blinking Cupid gossips. Now shall he-Mercury and the Workmen
That call'd me timelier than my purpose hither;Mercury appeared to him just as he hoped he would; and having
That can such sweet use make of what they hate,Mercury, before which he made offerings day by day, and begged
That chase thee from thy country, and exposeMercury, pleased with his honesty, gave him the golden and silver
That dare leave two together. Fare you well.            ExitMessenger of the Gods, and author of all your gain."  The
That day appear'd; and oft before gave audience,Mezeriac.  The substantial truth of his statements has been
That do acknowledge Caesar, should I find themMichael S. Hart through the Project Gutenberg Association (the
That does afflict each other!Midnight, Central Time, of the last day of the stated month.  A
That done, laugh well at me.Might makes right.
That dost in vile misprision shackle upMiller, I had indeed to go campaigning before, but I was barbed
That doth my life besiege. Farewell, young lords;Minerva because she had not contrived iron wheels in the
That downward hath succeeded in his houseMinerva.  On the completion of their labors, a dispute arose as
That drew their swords with you. Did he not ratherMisfortune tests the sincerity of friends.
That drive thee from the sportive court, where thouMisfortunes springing from ourselves are the hardest to bear.
That drums him from his sport and speaks as loudMomus as judge, and to abide by his decision.  Momus, however,
That else must perish here.Monkey, and all the crew were obliged to swim for their lives.  A
That every braggart shall be found an ass.Mother followed in the crowd and violently beat her breast in
That every tongue says beauty should look so.Mother fondles one and nurtures it with the greatest affection
That fame may cry you aloud. I say farewell.Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and
That fell away have entertainment, butMouse with him.  The Frog enjoyed the water amazingly, and swam
That first we come to words; and therefore have weMr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias,
That from Tarentum and BrundusiumMueller.  Vol.  i, p.  l9l.  London, Parker, 1858.
That good convenience claims.My apologies.
That happiness and prime can happy call.Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti.
That has done worthy service.NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE OR UNDER STRICT LIABILITY, OR FOR
That has this morning left thee, would have stillNature exceeds nurture.
That has to-day escap'd. I thank you all;Nec generi tribui sed virtuti gloriam.
That have my heart parted betwixt two friends,Necessity is the mother of invention.
That he approves the common liar, whoNecessity knows no law.
That he does weigh too light. My greatest grief,Nevelet (in a book we shall refer to hereafter), and are
That he his high authority abus'd,No arguments will give courage to the coward.
That he is lov'd of me; I follow him notNo one can be a friend if you know not whether to trust or
That he which is was wish'd until he were;No one truly forgets injuries in the presence of him who caused
That heaven and earth may strike their sounds togetherNot long afterwards when someone passed by and observed the
That hugs his kicky-wicky here at home,Notoriety is often mistaken for fame.
That in their kind they speak it; only sinOF THE FUTURE CONDITIONS OF THIS PRESENTATION. . .NO CHARGES MAY
That is Antonio, the Duke's eldest son;ON A SUMMER DAY, when the great heat induced a general thirst
That it might go on wheels!ONCE UPON A TIME a Wolf resolved to disguise his appearance in
That kneel'd unto the buds. Admit him, sir.     Exit SERVANTONCE UPON A TIME, when the Sun announced his intention to take a
That knows the tinct and multiplying med'cine,ONE WINTER a Farmer found a Snake stiff and frozen with cold.  He
That labouring art can never ransom natureOak said with a sigh, "I do not care about the blows of the axe
That leads him to these places; were I his ladyOld friends cannot with impunity be sacrificed for new ones.
That life, a very rebel to my will,Olive full of foliage, it settled upon its branches and broke
That long time have been barren.Olympus to present Jupiter some honey fresh from her combs.
That magical word of war, we have effected;On one occasion when the shepherd laid hold of him, he grunted
That make their looks by his; he was not merry,On the invitation of Croesus he fixed his residence at Sardis,
That makes me see, and cannot feed mine eye?On this the truthful Traveler thought to himself, "If so great a
That makes the weight. Had I great Juno's power,One of the bystanders said to him, "My good fellow, why do you
That means to be of note, begins betimes.One story is good, till another is told.
That ministers thine own death if I die.Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M.
That mov'd pale Cassius to conspire? and whatOur mere anticipations of life outrun its realities.
That murd'red Pompey.Oxen, turning round, thus addressed the wheels:  "Hullo there! why
That noises it against us.Oxen.  The Axle-trees groaned and creaked terribly; whereupon the
That o'er the files and musters of the warOxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus,
That of his fortunes you should make a staffP. O. Box  2782
That only have fear'd Caesar. To the portsPARTICULAR PURPOSE.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of
That overtopp'd them all. Betray'd I am.PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
That pitiful rumour may report my flightPERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
That presently you take your way for home,POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
That quickens Nilus' slime, I go from hencePREFACE
That ride upon the violent speed of fire,PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
That ring's a thousand proofs.PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
That seeks not to find that her search implies,PUNITIVE OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE
That sets him high in fame.Panther made this reply:  "I remember alike those who sought my
That shall attend his love.Partridge earnestly begged him to spare his life, saying, "Pray,
That she did make defect perfection,Partridges declared that they would dig around his vines and make
That she may quickly come.Patere honoris scirent ut cuncti viam;
That she that makes me sin, awards me pain.Persuasion is better than Force.
That she which marries you must marry me,Phalaris.
That she whom all men prais'd, and whom myself,Phrygia, contend for the distinction of being the birthplace of
That she would never put it from her fingerPhysician to heal them, and made this bargain with him in the
That she'll demand. A ring the County wearsPisistratus; while the fable of the "Horse and Stag" was composed
That sings with piercing; do not touch my lord.Plane-Tree, interrupting him, said, "You ungrateful fellows! Do
That sleep and feeding may prorogue his honourPlane-Tree.  As they rested under its shade, one of the Travelers
That so I harried him. Why, methinks, by him,Planudes, a learned monk of Constantinople, made a collection of
That spaniel'd me at heels, to whom I gavePlease call them at 1-800-443-0238 or email julianc@netcom.com
That speak against us! A charge we bear i' th' war,Please give them our thanks for their Shakespeare cooperation!
That stands upon the swell at the full of tide,Pleasure bought with pains, hurts.
That surfeit on their ease, will day by dayPreface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to
That the first face of neither, on the start,Preface, p.  27.
That the great figure of a council framesPride goes before destruction.
That the mad Brutus ended; he alonePrince fell down in a fainting fit.  A violent fever suddenly set
That thee may furnish, and my prayers pluck down,Project (and any other party you may receive this etext from as
That they take place when virtue's steely bonesProject Gutenberg
That this distempered messenger of wet,Project Gutenberg is dedicated to increasing the number of
That thou art so inhuman- 'twill not prove so.RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND
That thou couldst see my wars to-day, and knew'stROAMING BY the mountainside at sundown, a Wolf saw his own shadow
That thou didst love her, strikes some scores awayRaven left the altars in the neighborhood where he picked up his
That thou, residing here, goes yet with me,Robber made answer, "I only wish that you had helped me just now,
That time and place with this deceit so lawfulSERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
That truth should be suspected. Speak, is't so?SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
That twenty such rude boys might tend upon,SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC.,
That we must leave thee to thy sinking, forSHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
That we'll forsake ourselves. Give me that ring.SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
That weigh their pains in sense, and do supposeSOME BOYS, playing near a pond, saw a number of Frogs in the
That were enwombed mine. 'Tis often seenSOME CRANES made their feeding grounds on some plowlands newly
That were excusable, that and thousands moreSOME DOGS famished with hunger saw a number of cowhides steeping
That what they do delay they not deny.SOME DOGS, finding the skin of a lion, began to tear it in pieces
That which I durst not speak. His present giftSOME FISHERMEN were out trawling their nets.  Perceiving them to
That which combin'd us was most great, and let notSOME THIEVES broke into a house and found nothing but a Cock,
That which none else can utter. By this marriageSOME TRAVELERS, journeying along the seashore, climbed to the
That will speak anything?Samos and Athens to their respective rulers, Periander and
That with the plume; 'tis a most gallant fellow.Say 'I,' not 'We' are undone."
That yarely frame the office. From the bargeSculptor replied, "Well, if you will buy these, I'll fling you
That you are well acquainted with yourself,Sea very calm and smooth, and longed to make a voyage with a view
That you do charge men with. Stand no more off,See if I do not prick your neck with my sting."  The Draught-Mule
That you express content; which we will paySeeing this, the man put a halter on him and led him back to his
That you know well. Something it is I would-Self-help is the best help.
That you start at it? I say I am your mother,Self-help is the best help.
That's able to breathe life into a stone,Self-interest alone moves some men.
That, Escalus.Send to:
That, being unseminar'd, thy freer thoughtsServumque collocarunt aeterna in basi:
That, when the exigent should come- which nowSeven centuries elapsed before the next notice is found of the
The Count Rousillon cannot be my brother:Shakespeare
The Duke will lay upon him all the honourShe made answer, "Because in former times, falsehood was with
The General says you that have so traitorously discover'd theShe smiled, and said:  "I know full well, my son, that all you say
The Jove of power make me, most weak, most weak,Sheep, "if I should bring you the draught, you would doubtless
The King has done you wrong; but, hush, 'tis so.      ExeuntSheep, much against his will, carried her backward and forward
The King is render'd lost.Shepherd boldly examined the beast, discovered the thorn, and
The King's disease-my project may deceive me,Shepherd, "Since you have taught me to steal, you must keep a
The Tuscan service, freely have they leaveShepherd, being imprisoned on a false accusation, was condemned
The absolute soldiership you have by land;Shortly afterwards the Bull with his horns gored him as if he
The actor may plead pardon. I'll none now.Since unlike many other Project Gutenberg-tm etexts, this etext
The air of paradise did fan the house,Slow but steady wins the race.
The anger'd ocean foams; with which I meantSnake would bite him also, endeavored to make peace, and placed
The appetites they feed, but she makes hungrySo desiring two ends, he obtained neither.
The armourer of my heart. False, false; this, this.Some men are of more consequence in their own eyes than in the
The article of my oath-Some men underrate their best blessings.
The article of your oath, which you shall neverSome states do not allow disclaimers of implied warranties or
The barge she sat in, like a burnish'd throne,Stag intruded into his domain and shared his pasture.  The Horse,
The barks of trees thou brows'd. On the AlpsStephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a
The battery from my heart. O, cleave, my sides!Stoop to conquer.
The bidding of the fullest man, and worthiestStork, a bird of excellent character; and see how I love and
The bitter past, more welcome is the sweet.       [Flourish]Straws show how the wind blows.
The blushes in my cheeks thus whisper me:Swan instead of the Goose.  The Swan, threatened with death,
The bottom of your purpose.TEE KITES of olden times, as well as the Swans, had the privilege
The bravest questant shrinks, find what you seek,THE ANTS were spending a fine winter's day drying grain collected
The breese upon her, like a cow in June-THE ASS and the Fox, having entered into partnership together for
The buckles on his breast, reneges all temper,THE BEASTS of the field and forest had a Lion as their king.  He
The business we have talk'd of.THE BEASTS of the forest gave a splendid entertainment at which
The carriage of his chafe.THE BIRDS waged war with the Beasts, and each were by turns the
The cause of our expedience to the Queen,THE CAMEL, when he saw the Bull adorned with horns, envied him
The circle of the Ptolemies for her heirs,THE DOLPHINS and Whales waged a fierce war with each other.  When
The colour of her hair. Bring me word quickly.THE FOX and the Leopard disputed which was the more beautiful of
The confirmation of my promis'd gift,THE FROGS, grieved at having no established Ruler, sent
The congregated college have concludedTHE GEESE and the Cranes were feeding in the same meadow, when a
The constancy and virtue of your love.THE GODS, according to an ancient legend, made choice of certain
The courage of a woman; less noble mindTHE HARES harangued the assembly, and argued that all should be
The court's a learning-place, and he is one-THE HARES waged war with the Eagles, and called upon the Foxes to
The danger to itself?THE HARES, oppressed by their own exceeding timidity and weary of
The daughter of this lord?THE LARK (according to an ancient legend) was created before the
The death of Fulvia, with more urgent touches,THE LIFE and History of Aesop is involved, like that of Homer,
The deeds of justest men.THE LION wearied Jupiter with his frequent complaints.  "It is
The demi-Atlas of this earth, the armTHE LION, the Fox and the Ass entered into an agreement to assist
The discontents repair, and men's reportsTHE MEMBERS of the Body rebelled against the Belly, and said,
The doom of Egypt.THE MICE summoned a council to decide how they might best devise
The dove will peck the estridge; and I see stillTHE MONKEY, it is said, has two young ones at each birth.  The
The dust that did offend it.THE NORTH WIND and the Sun disputed as to which was the most
The elements be kind to thee and makeTHE OAKS presented a complaint to Jupiter, saying, "We bear for
The empire of the sea; our slippery people,THE OLIVE-TREE ridiculed the Fig-Tree because, while she was
The fall of Antony.THE OXEN once upon a time sought to destroy the Butchers, who
The fancy out-work nature. On each side herTHE PEACOCK made complaint to Juno that, while the nightingale
The fellow has a deal of that too muchTHE PIGEONS, terrified by the appearance of a Kite, called upon
The fellow has good judgment.THE POMEGRANATE and Apple-Tree disputed as to which was the most
The fortress of it; for better might weTHE PURCHASER of a black servant was persuaded that the color of
The fugitive Parthians follow; spur through Media,THE RIVERS joined together to complain to the Sea, saying, "Why
The fundamental reasons of this war;THE SHE-GOATS having obtained a beard by request to Jupiter, the
The garboils she awak'd. At the last, best.THE SONNETS
The gift doth stretch itself as 'tis receiv'd,THE SWALLOW and the Crow had a contention about their plumage.
The gold I give thee will I melt and pourTHE TALE, the Parable, and the Fable are all common and popular
The good and bad together. He's friends with Caesar;THE WASPS and the Partridges, overcome with thirst, came to a
The good gods will mock me presentlyTHE WEASELS and the Mice waged a perpetual war with each other,
The good precedence; fie upon 'but yet'!THE WOLVES thus addressed the Sheepdogs:  "Why should you, who are
The great prerogative and rite of love,THE WOODCUTTER cut down a Mountain Oak and split it in pieces,
The greatest wrong of all. He lost a wifeTHIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
The griefs between ye- to forget them quiteTHIS ETEXT IS OTHERWISE PROVIDED TO YOU "AS-IS".  NO OTHER
The guard, ho! O, dispatch me!THREE BULLS for a long time pastured together.  A Lion lay in
The hand could pluck her back that shov'd her on.TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.
The heart of Antony, Octavia isTO GIVE IT AWAY TO ANYONE YOU LIKE, BUT NO CHARGES ARE ALLOWED!!
The heart of brothers govern in our lovesTO THE ETEXT OR ANY MEDIUM IT MAY BE ON, INCLUDING BUT NOT
The help of heaven we count the act of men.TWO FROGS dwelt in the same pool.  When the pool dried up under
The help of mine own eyes.TWO FROGS were neighbors.  One inhabited a deep pond, far removed
The higher our opinion, that our stirringTWO GAME COCKS were fiercely fighting for the mastery of the
The hind that would be mated by the lionTWO MEN were journeying together.  One of them picked up an axe
The holding every man shall bear as loudTWO MEN were traveling together, when a Bear suddenly met them on
The honour is sacred which he talks on now,TWO MEN, deadly enemies to each other, were sailing in the same
The honour that he loses. More I'll entreat youTWO MEN, one who always spoke the truth and the other who told
The honour'd gashes whole.TWO MULES well-laden with packs were trudging along.  One carried
The horned herd! For I have savage cause,TWO SOLDIERS traveling together were set upon by a Robber.  The
The horse were merely lost; the mares would bearTWO TRAVELERS, worn out by the heat of the summer's sun, laid
The itch of his affection should not thenTerrified at the sight, he lifted his eyes and his hands to
The jeweller that owes the ring is sent for,The Aethiop
The kings o' th' earth for war. He hath assembledThe Ant and the Dove
The kings of Mede and Lycaonia, withThe Ants and the Grasshopper
The kings that have revolted, and the soldierThe Apes and the Two Travelers
The lamps of night in revel; is not more manlikeThe Ass Carrying the Image
The lass I spoke of.The Ass and His Driver
The last that e'er I took her leave at court,The Ass and His Masters
The lean and wrinkled Cassius; and 'twas IThe Ass and His Purchaser
The legions and the horse whole, do you not?The Ass and His Shadow
The like from him.The Ass and the Charger
The loyalty well held to fools does makeThe Ass and the Frogs
The main consents are had; and here we'll stayThe Ass and the Grasshopper
The man is innocent.The Ass and the Horse
The manner of his speech; for't cannot beThe Ass and the Lapdog
The many-colour'd Iris, rounds thine eye?The Ass and the Mule
The merchandise which thou hast brought from RomeThe Ass and the Old Shepherd
The mered question. 'Twas a shame no lessThe Ass and the Wolf
The mightiest space in fortune nature bringsThe Ass in the Lion's Skin
The ministration and required officeThe Ass, being heavily laden, moved slowly out of the way.
The more it promises; as it ebbs, the seedsmanThe Ass, the Cock, and the Lion
The myst'ry of your loneliness, and findThe Ass, the Fox, and the Lion
The name and not the thing.The Astronomer
The name of Antony; it was dividedThe Bald Knight
The nature of his great offence is dead,The Bald Man and the Fly
The ne'er-lust-wearied Antony.The Bat and the Weasels
The ne'er-touch'd vestal. Try thy cunning, Thyreus;The Bear and the Fox
The ne'er-yet-beaten horse of ParthiaThe Bear and the Two Travelers
The neighs of horse to tell of her approachThe Bee and Jupiter
The noble Antony.The Belly and the Members
The noble ruin of her magic, Antony,The Birdcatcher, the Partridge, and the Cock
The offers we have sent you.The Birds gave no credence to these warning words, but considered
The office and devotion of their viewThe Birds, the Beasts, and the Bat
The opposite of itself. She's good, being gone;The Bitch and Her Whelps
The ostentation of our love, which left unshownThe Blind Man and the Whelp
The other three are sealing. Octavia weepsThe Boasting Traveler
The other way's a Mars.                         [To MARDIAN]The Bowman and Lion
The other, that she's in earth, from whence God send her quickly!The Boy Bathing
The people love me, and the sea is mine;The Boy Hunting Locusts
The petty difference we yet not know.The Boy and the Filberts
The place is dignified by the doer's deed;The Boy and the Nettles
The poisonous damp of night disponge upon me,The Boys and the Frogs
The praise of it by telling, you must know,The Bramble answered:  'You poor creature, if you would only call
The praised of the King; who, so ennobled,The Brazier and His Dog
The prescript of this scroll. Our fortune liesThe Brother and the Sister
The property by what it is should go,The Buffoon and the Countryman
The purposes I bear; which are, or cease,The Buffoon appeared alone upon the platform, without any
The qualities of people. Come, my queen;The Bull and the Calf
The rack dislimns, and makes it indistinct,The Bull and the Goat
The rather for I earnestly beseech,The Bull, the Lioness, and the Wild-Boar Hunter
The rather for I think I know your hostessThe Camel
The reasons of our state I cannot yield,The Camel and Jupiter
The remembrance of her father never approaches her heart but theThe Camel and the Arab
The ring was never hers.The Cat and Venus
The roughest berry on the rudest hedge;The Cat and the Birds
The routed fly. So thy grand captain, Antony,The Cat and the Cock
The royal occupation! Thou shouldst seeThe Cat and the Mice
The rush that lies before him; cries 'Fool Lepidus!'The Cat cunningly resolved to destroy this chance-made colony.
The same upon your finger.The Cat replied, "Although you abound in specious apologies, I
The senators alone of this great world,The Charcoal-Burner and the Fuller
The sevenfold shield of Ajax cannot keepThe Charger and the Miller
The shirt of Nessus is upon me; teach me,The Cobbler Turned Doctor
The sides o' th' world may danger. Much is breedingThe Cock and the Jewel
The soldier's virtue, rather makes choice of lossThe Cock defended himself by saying that he did this for the
The soul and body rive not more in partingThe Cock, suspecting his civilities, said:  "Sir, I wish you would
The stale of horses and the gilded puddleThe Complete Works of William Shakespeare
The state of your affection; for your passionsThe Crab and Its Mother
The strong necessity of time commandsThe Crab and the Fox
The strong-wing'd Mercury should fetch thee up,The Crow and Mercury
The sun that looks upon his worshipperThe Crow and the Pitcher
The thing we sue for.The Crow and the Raven
The thing why thou hast drawn it.The Crow and the Serpent
The third o' th' world is yours, which with a snaffleThe Crow and the Sheep
The time is fair again.The Crow put an end to the dispute by saying, "Your feathers are
The tread of a man's foot. To th' wars!The Dancing Monkeys
The triple pillar of the world transform'dThe Doe and the Lion
The troops are all scattered, and the commanders very poorThe Dog and the Cook
The universal landlord.The Dog and the Hare
The use of your own virtues, for the whichThe Dog and the Oyster
The varying shore o' th' world. O Antony,The Dog and the Shadow
The violence of either thee becomes,The Dog in the Manger
The water which they beat to follow faster,The Dog's House
The way which promises assurance; andThe Dog, the Cock, and the Fox
The weight we must convey with's will permit,The Dogs and the Fox
The well-lost life of mine on his Grace's cure.The Dogs and the Hides
The which you both denied.The Dolphin, indignant at these falsehoods, dipped the Monkey
The while I'll place you; then the boy shall sing;The Dolphins, the Whales, and the Sprat
The white hand of a lady fever thee!The Dove and the Crow
The winds were love-sick with them; the oars were silver,The Eagle and His Captor
The wine peep through their scars. Come on, my queen,The Eagle and the Arrow
The world's great snare uncaught?The Eagle and the Fox
The wounded chance of Antony, though my reasonThe Eagle and the Jackdaw
Their fiery torcher his diurnal ring,The Eagle and the Kite
Their force, their purposes. Nay, I'll speak thatThe Eagle, the Cat, and the Wild Sow
Their ships are yare; yours heavy. No disgraceThe Farmer and His Sons
Their slimy jaws; and as I draw them upThe Farmer and the Cranes
Their wishes, do discandy, melt their sweetsThe Farmer and the Fox
Themselves when they be felt.The Farmer and the Snake
Then bid adieu to me, and say the tearsThe Farmer and the Stork
Then hast thou all again. Poor lord! is'tThe Farmer, beginning to be alarmed for his own safety, opened
Then in the midst a tearing groan did breakThe Father and His Sons
Then put my tires and mantles on him, whilstThe Father and His Two Daughters
Then was the time for words. No going then!The Fawn and His Mother
Then will I swear beauty herself is black,The Fighting Cocks and the Eagle
Then, Antony- but now. Well, on.                      ExeuntThe Fir-Tree and the Bramble
There is a change upon you.The Fisherman Piping
There is a remedy, approv'd, set down,The Fisherman and His Nets
There lock yourself, and send him word you are dead.The Fisherman and the Little Fish
There saw you labouring for him. What was'tThe Fishermen
There shall your master have a thousand loves,The Fishermen after a while gave up fishing, and on going home to
There were a heart in Egypt.The Flea and the Man
There would he anchor his aspect and dieThe Flea and the Ox
There's a great spirit gone! Thus did I desire it.The Flea and the Wrestler
There's four or five, to great Saint Jaques bound,The Flies and the Honey-Pot
There's hope in't yet.The Fly and the Draught-Mule
There's not a minute of our lives should stretchThe Fowler and the Viper
There's nothing here that is too good for himThe Fox Who Had Lost His Tail
There's place and means for every man alive.The Fox and the Bramble
There's sap in't yet. The next time I do fightThe Fox and the Crane
Therefore I lie with her, and she with me,The Fox and the Crow
Therefore I pray you. I'll see you by and by.    [Sits down]The Fox and the Goat
Therefore away, and leave her bravely; go.The Fox and the Grapes
Therefore be deaf to my unpitied folly,The Fox and the Hedgehog
Therefore, O Antony, stay not by his side.The Fox and the Leopard
Therefore, to th' war!The Fox and the Lion
These drums! these trumpets, flutes! what!The Fox and the Lion
These hands do lack nobility, that they strikeThe Fox and the Mask
These strong Egyptian fetters I must break,The Fox and the Monkey
They are black vesper's pageants.The Fox and the Monkey
They cast their caps up and carouse togetherThe Fox and the Woodcutter
They have put forth the haven-The Fox soon became jealous of the Lion carrying off the Lion's
They make in Italy; the borders maritimeThe Frogs Asking for a King
They say our French lack language to deny,The Frogs' Complaint Against the Sun
They that least lend it you shall lack you first.The Gamecocks and the Partridge
They will say 'Came you off with so little?' And great ones IThe Geese and the Cranes
They'll grind the one the other. Where's Antony?The Gnat and the Bull
They, that they cannot help. How shall they creditThe Gnat and the Lion
Thine, as he vow'd to thee in thine ear,The Gnat thus prevailed over the Lion, and, buzzing about in a
Things that are past are done with me. 'Tis thus:The Goal of Project Gutenberg is to Give Away One Trillion Etext
Think all but one, and me in that one 'Will.'The Goal of Project Gutenberg is to Give Away One Trillion Etext
Think him a great way fool, solely a coward;The Goat and the Ass
Think, speak, cast, write, sing, number- hoo!-The Goat and the Goatherd
This I do vow and this shall ever be,The Goat replied, "Why, you silly fellow, the horn will speak
This amorous surfeiter would have donn'd his helmThe Goatherd and the Wild Goats
This be not cherish'd.The Goods and the Ills
This creature's no such thing.The Goods wafted themselves to heaven and asked for a righteous
This foul Egyptian hath betrayed me.The Grasshopper and the Owl
This his good melancholy oft began,The Grasshopper, who was thirsty, and pleased with the praise of
This is a dreadful sentence.The Hare and the Hound
This is a soldier's kiss. Rebukeable,The Hare and the Tortoise
This is his Majesty; say your mind to him.The Hare, lying down by the wayside, fell fast asleep.  At last
This is not well, rash and unbridled boy,The Hares and the Foxes
This is stiff news- hath with his Parthian forceThe Hares and the Frogs
This is the news: he fishes, drinks, and wastesThe Hares and the Lions
This is to horse. Adieu, noble Agrippa.The Hart and the Vine
This man may help me to his Majesty's ear,The Hart, at the point of death, groaned:  "I am rightly served,
This morning, like the spirit of a youthThe Hawk and the Nightingale
This orient pearl. His speech sticks in my heart.The Hawk, the Kite, and the Pigeons
This ring was ever hers, you shall as easyThe Heifer and the Ox
This ring was mine; and when I gave it HelenThe Hen and the Golden Eggs
This ring, you say, was yours?The Hen and the Swallow
This sword and these my wounds? Let th' EgyptiansThe Herdsman and the Lost Bull
This sword but shown to Caesar, with this tidings,The Horse and Groom
This treasure of an oyster; at whose foot,The Horse and His Rider
This wine for Lepidus!The Horse and the Ass
Thither we bend again.The Horse and the Stag
Those bated that inherit but the fallThe Horse consented and allowed the man to mount him.  From that
Those tender limbs of thine to the eventThe Hunter and the Horseman
Those that can see thou lov'st, and I am blind.The Hunter and the Woodman
Thou art sure to lose; and of that natural luckThe Huntsman and the Fisherman
Thou art, if thou dar'st be, the earthly Jove;The Image of Mercury and the Carpenter
Thou blushest, Antony, and that blood of thineThe Jackdaw and the Doves
Thou diest within this hour.The Jackdaw and the Fox
Thou dost o'er-count me of my father's house.The Kid and the Wolf
Thou dost so crown with gold! This blows my heart.The Kid and the Wolf
Thou fell'st into my fury, for one deathThe King of the Apes, enraged at hearing these truths, gave him
Thou fumblest, Eros, and my queen's a squireThe King's Son and the Painted Lion
Thou has been rightly honest. So hast thou;The Kingdom of the Lion
Thou has repeal'd, a second time receiveThe Kites and the Swans
Thou hast been whipt for following him. HenceforthThe Laborer and the Snake
Thou hast power to choose, and they none to forsake.The Lamb and the Wolf
Thou kept'st a wife herself, thyself a maid.-The Lamp
Thou kill'st thy mistress; but well and free,The Lark Burying Her Father
Thou look'st like him that knows a warlike charge.The Lark and Her Young Ones
Thou mine of bounty, how wouldst thou have paidThe Library of the Future Complete Works of William Shakespeare
Thou must not take my former sharpness ill.The Lion and the Boar
Thou robb'st me of a moiety. He was my son;The Lion and the Bull
Thou shalt be whipp'd with wire and stew'd in brine,The Lion and the Dolphin
Thou shalt have none, Rousillon, none in FranceThe Lion and the Eagle
Thou shouldst come like a Fury crown'd with snakes,The Lion and the Fox
Thou strik'st not me; 'tis Caesar thou defeat'st.The Lion and the Hare
Thou teachest me, O valiant Eros, whatThe Lion and the Mouse
Thou then wouldst kill me. Do't; the time is come.The Lion and the Shepherd
Thou this to hazard needs must intimateThe Lion and the Three Bulls
Thou thought'st to help me; and such thanks I giveThe Lion in Love
Thou wast not made his daughter; and be thou sorryThe Lion in a Farmyard
Thou wouldst appear most ugly. He is married?The Lion, Jupiter, and the Elephant
Thou, and thou, and thou. You have serv'd me well,The Lion, the Bear, and the Fox
Though I am mad, I will not bite him. Call!The Lion, the Fox, and the Ass
Though daintily brought up, with patience moreThe Lion, the Mouse, and the Fox
Though enemy, lost aim and could not?The Lion, the Wolf, and the Fox
Though he be painted one way like a Gorgon,The Lioness
Though honesty be no puritan, yet it will do no hurt; it willThe Man Bitten by a Dog
Though it be honest, it is never goodThe Man and His Two Sweethearts
Though little he do feel it, set down sharply.The Man and His Wife
Though more to know could not be more to trust,The Man and the Lion
Though my revenges were high bent upon himThe Man and the Satyr
Though time seem so adverse and means unfit.The Man, the Horse, the Ox, and the Dog
Though yet he never harm'd me, here I quit him.The Manslayer
Though you be therein curious, the least causeThe Master and His Dogs
Though you can guess what temperance should be,The Mice and the Weasels
Though you in swearing shake the throned gods,The Mice in Council
Three kings I had newly feasted, and did wantThe Milk-Woman and Her Pail
Thrives in our idleness.The Miller, His Son, and Their Ass
Through Alexandria make a jolly march;The Mischievous Dog
Through flinty Tartar's bosom would peep forth,The Miser
Through proof of harness to my heart, and thereThe Mole and His Mother
Through whom I might command it? Come thou near.The Monkey and the Camel
Thus speaks of him at Rome; but I will hopeThe Monkey and the Dolphin
Thus then, thou most renown'd: Caesar entreatsThe Monkey and the Fishermen
Thus would I wear them out.The Monkeys and Their Mother
Thy beck might from the bidding of the godsThe Mother and the Wolf
Thy business?The Mountain in Labor
Thy daemon, that thy spirit which keeps thee, isThe Mouse and the Bull
Thy dearest quit thee.                                  ExitThe Mouse, the Frog, and the Hawk
Thy full supremacy thou knew'st, and thatThe Mule
Thy life is dear; for all that life can rateThe Mule carrying the treasure walked with head erect, as if
Thy love's to me religious; else, does err.The Mule which had been robbed and wounded bewailed his
Thy master dies thy scholar. To do thusThe Mules and the Robbers
Thy master thus with pleach'd arms, bending downThe North Wind and the Sun
Thy modesty can beg.The Oak and the Reeds
Thy name so buried in her.The Oak and the Woodcutters
Thy pains, not us'd, must by thyself be paid;The Oaks and Jupiter
Thy resolv'd patient, on thee still rely.The Old Hound
Thy soldier, servant, making peace or warThe Old Lion
Thy spirits all of comfort! Fare thee well.The Old Man and Death
Thy will by my performance shall be serv'd.The Old Woman and the Physician
Tie up the libertine in a field of feasts,The Old Woman and the Wine-Jar
Till by degrees the memory of my womb,The Old Woman, standing up in the Court, argued:  "This man here
Till his deserts are past, begin to throwThe Olive-Tree and the Fig-Tree
Till honour be bought up, and no sword wornThe One-Eyed Doe
Till like a boy you see him cringe his face,The Owl and the Birds
Till my bad angel fire my good one out.The Owl next advised them to pluck up the seed of the flax, which
Till that the conquering wine hath steep'd our senseThe Ox and the Frog
Till their own scorn return to them unnotedThe Oxen and the Axle-Trees
Till we do hear from them.The Oxen and the Butchers
Till we have done at sea. Do not exceedThe Panther and the Shepherds
Till we perceiv'd both how you were wrong ledThe Partridge and the Fowler
Till we serve you; but when you have our rosesThe Peacock and Juno
Till your deeds gain them. Fairer prove your honourThe Peacock and the Crane
Time was I did him a desired office,The Peasant and the Apple-Tree
To Lydia and to Ionia,The Peasant and the Eagle
To a most hideous object. Thence it cameThe Philosopher, the Ants, and Mercury
To answer like himself. If Caesar move him,The Piglet, the Sheep, and the Goat
To be desir'd to give. It much would please himThe Playful Ass
To be entangled with those mouth-made vows,The Pomegranate, Apple-Tree, and Bramble
To bear such idleness so near the heartThe Project gratefully accepts contributions in money, time,
To beat me out of Egypt. My messengerThe Prophet
To bring bad news. Give to a gracious messageThe Quack Frog
To bring forth this discov'ry. Seek these suitors.The Raven and the Swan
To burn this night with torches. Know, my hearts,The Rich Man and the Tanner
To business that we love we rise betime,The Rivers and the Sea
To buy his will, it would not seem too dear,The Rose and the Amaranth
To camp this host, we all would sup together,The Salt Merchant and His Ass
To change a master. O, my fortunes haveThe Sea, perceiving that they intended to throw the blame on him,
To chide him from our eaves, for he persistsThe Seagull and the Kite
To choose from forth the royal blood of France,The Seaside Travelers
To come into his presence.The Seller of Images
To come thus was I not constrain'd, but did itThe Serpent and the Eagle
To consolate thine ear. Come, night; end, day.The She-Goats and Their Beards
To cool a gipsy's lust.The Shepherd and the Dog
To cozen him that would unjustly win.                   ExitThe Shepherd and the Sea
To cure the desperate languishings whereofThe Shepherd and the Sheep
To daff't for our repose, shall hear a storm.The Shepherd and the Wolf
To do this when I bade thee? Do it at once,The Shepherd's Boy and the Wolf
To do you justice, make their ministersThe Shepherd-boy, now really alarmed, shouted in an agony of
To draw their swords. But how the fear of usThe Shipwrecked Man and the Sea
To drench the Capitol, but that they wouldThe Sick Kite
To eat with us to-night; the charge and thankingThe Sick Lion
To empirics; or to dissever soThe Sick Stag
To entertain it so merrily with a fool.The Snake was quickly revived by the warmth, and resuming its
To equal my great fortune.The Sparrow and the Hare
To fly the favours of so good a king,The Spendthrift and the Swallow
To follow Caesar in his triumph, sinceThe Stag at the Pool
To follow with allegiance a fall'n lordThe Stag in the Ox-Stall
To front this present time.The Stag, the Wolf, and the Sheep
To gather from thee. Haply thou mayst informThe Swallow and the Crow
To give a kingdom for a mirth, to sitThe Swallow, the Serpent, and the Court of Justice
To give great Charlemain a pen in's handThe Swan and the Goose
To give it from me.The Swollen Fox
To give some labourers room.The Thief and His Mother
To give them this discomfort? Look, they weep;The Thief and the Housedog
To give this poor petition to the King;The Thief and the Innkeeper
To glow the delicate cheeks which they did cool,The Thief laid hold of his coat and entreated him to stop,
To go to Paris?The Thieves and the Cock
To grace it with your sorrows. Bid that welcomeThe Thirsty Pigeon
To grow there, and to bear- 'Let me not live'-The Three Tradesmen
To have command obey'd.The Thrush and the Fowler
To have her name repeated; all her deservingThe Tortoise and the Eagle
To have me out of Egypt, made wars here;The Town Mouse and the Country Mouse
To have us make denial.The Traveler and Fortune
To hear from me you had left Antony,The Traveler and His Dog
To her unworthiness. It nothing steads usThe Travelers and the Plane-Tree
To her whose state is such that cannot chooseThe Trees Under the Protection of the Gods
To his grand sea.The Trees and the Axe
To join like likes, and kiss like native things.The Trumpeter Taken Prisoner
To join our kingdoms and our hearts; and neverThe Two Bags
To keep an adjunct to remember theeThe Two Dogs
To keep it builded be the ram to batterThe Two Frogs
To kiss these lips, I will appear in blood.The Two Frogs
To lay his gay comparisons apart,The Two Men Who Were Enemies
To lay my crown at 's feet, and there to kneel.The Two Pots
To lean upon. But it would warm his spiritsThe Two Soldiers and the Robber
To let him breathe between the heavens and earth,The Two Travelers and the Axe
To let me be partaker.The Vain Jackdaw
To make distinction. Provide this messenger.The Vine and the Goat
To make itself in thee fair and admir'd.The Viper and the File
To make me fight at land!The Walnut-Tree
To make my heart her vassal.The Wasp and the Snake
To make the coming hour o'erflow with joyThe Wasps, the Partridges, and the Farmer
To make the even truth in pleasure flow.The Weasel and the Mice
To make this good?The Widow and Her Little Maidens
To make you brothers, and to knit your heartsThe Widow and the Sheep
To make yourself a son out of my blood.The Wild Ass and the Lion
To marry her, I'll add three thousand crownsThe Wild Boar and the Fox
To mend the petty present, I will pieceThe Wolf and the Crane
To mine own fortune, and inform'd her fullyThe Wolf and the Fox
To our confusion.The Wolf and the Goat
To part from Rome; Caesar is sad; and Lepidus,The Wolf and the Horse
To part with unhack'd edges and bear backThe Wolf and the Housedog
To penetrative shame, whilst the wheel'd seatThe Wolf and the Lamb
To pluck his indignation on thy headThe Wolf and the Lion
To prison with her. And away with him.The Wolf and the Lion
To prostitute our past-cure maladyThe Wolf and the Sheep
To public ear;The Wolf and the Shepherd
To punish me for what you make me doThe Wolf and the Shepherds
To recompense your love. Doubt not but heavenThe Wolf called out to him and said, "The Priest will slay you in
To reel the streets at noon, and stand the buffetThe Wolf in Sheep's Clothing
To rot itself with motion.The Wolf, looking up, said, "Sirrah! I hear thee:  yet it is not
To run and show their shoulders. Friends, be gone;The Wolf, the Fox, and the Ape
To say I am thy mother? What's the matter,The Wolf, with a lack of sense proportioned to his enormous size,
To say as I said then. But come, away!The Wolves and the Sheep
To say the dead are well. Bring it to that,The Wolves and the Sheepdogs
To say thou dost not. Therefore tell me true;The Woman and Her Hen
To scourge th' ingratitude that despiteful RomeThe Woodcutter advised him to take shelter in his own hut, so the
To see him every hour; to sit and drawThe Workman claimed it and expressed his joy at its recovery.
To see our widower's second marriage-day.The best intentions will not always ensure success.
To see't mine eyes are blasted.The construction of a fable involves a minute attention to (1)
To show her merit that did miss her love?The continual observance of this twofold aim creates the charm,
To shun the heaven that leads men to this hell.The desire for imaginary benefits often involves the loss of
To soft and gentle speech.The dishonest, if they act honestly, get no credit.
To sparkle in the spirits of my daughter,The eggs, allowing for all mishaps, will produce two hundred and
To stand on either part.The end of life was reserved for the Dog, wherefore the old man
To stoop in such a case.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop
To such whose place is under us, requiresThe fables were in the first instance only narrated by Aesop, and
To suffer all alike. That he should dream,The following are the sources from which the present translation
To swear against the truth so foul a be.The gift of a friend?'
To swear by him whom I protest to loveThe greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the
To take this offer; but Mark AntonyThe greatest kindness will not bind the ungrateful.
To talk of your good father. In his youthThe hero is brave in deeds as well as words.
To taunt at slackness. Canidius, weThe history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it
To tell him that his sword can never winThe knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into
To tell me truly.The least outlay is not always the greatest gain.
To tender it herself. I undertook it,The loiterer often blames delay on his more active friend.
To th' court of guard; he is of note. Our hourThe memory of a good deed lives.
To th' extreme edge of hazard.The more honor the more danger.
To the boy Caesar send this grizzled head,The official release date of all Project Gutenberg Etexts is at
To the dark house and the detested wife.The safeguards of virtue are hateful to those with evil
To the great sender turns a sour offence,The value is in the worth, not in the number.
To the young Roman boy she hath sold me, and I fallThere is no believing a liar, even when he speaks the truth.
To the young man send humble treaties, dodgeThereafter, feeling his life a burden from the shame and ridicule
To them for you.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an
To these great fellows. Sound and be hang'd, sound out!These few facts are all that can be relied on with any degree of
To this I witness call the fools of time,These terms of praise, it must be confessed, cannot be bestowed
To this good purpose, that so fairly shows,They are not wise who give to themselves the credit due to
To this great fairy I'll commend thy acts,They quickly agreed to exchange the produce of their day's sport.
To this unworthy husband of his wife;They tell us that we could get sued if there is something wrong
To those of mine in court. I'll stay at home,They were first brought to light, after a patient search and
To thy fair way!They who act without sufficient thought, will often fall into
To trumpet such good tidings? If not well,This "Small Print!" by Charles B. Kramer, Attorney
To try a larger fortune.This "small print" statement also tells you how to distribute
To wear your gentle limbs in my affairs,This PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext, like most PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
To weep; whose every passion fully strivesThis collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in
To what is pass'd already.This entertaining sight brought the people in crowds to laugh at
To you that know them not. This to my mother.This etext may contain a "Defect" in the form of incomplete,
To-day in our young lords; but they may jestThis inferiority of some to others is sufficiently accounted for
To-morrow to th' field. Flourish.                     ExeuntThis is ten thousand titles each to one hundred million readers,
To-night we'll wander through the streets and noteThis is ten thousand titles each to one hundred million readers.
Together with my brave Egyptians all,This is the 100th Etext file presented by Project Gutenberg, and
Tokens and letters which she did re-send;This life by Planudes contains, however, so small an amount of
Touch you the sourest points with sweetest terms,Those who assume a character which does not belong to them, only
Traduc'd by odious ballads; my maiden's nameThose who seek to please everybody please nobody.
Traduc'd for levity; and 'tis said in RomeThose who suffer most cry out the least.
Transform us not to women.Time and place often give the advantage to the weak over the
Trust not to rotten planks. Do you misdoubtTo carry out her design, she climbed to the nest of the Eagle,
Turn all to serpents! Call the slave again.To create these etexts, the Project expends considerable efforts
Turn your displeasure that way, for our faultsTo this the Crow replied, "I despise the weak and yield to the
Under his chance. If we draw lots, he speeds;Tortoise, who replied, laughing:  "Though you be swift as the
Under my poor instructions yet must sufferTraveler stopped to rest, and sought shelter from the heat under
Under the service of a child as soonTruth and the Traveler
Under this plot. She dies for't. Eros, ho!              ExitTry before you trust.
Under thy own life's key; be check'd for silence,Two blacks do not make one white.
Undo that prayer by crying out as loudTzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived
Unless her prayers, whom heaven delights to hearUnion is strength.
Unless she gave it to yourself in bed-United States copyright on or for this work, so the Project (and
Unless this general evil they maintain,Unless thou tell'st me where thou hadst this ring,
Use serves to overcome dread.Unloading of his mules.
VERSIONS based on separate sources get new LETTER, shaks10a.txtUnquestion'd welcome and undoubted blest.
VERSIONS based on separate sources get new LETTER, xxxxx10a.txt.Unregist'red in vulgar fame, you have
Various public performers contended for the prize.  Among themUnstate his happiness, and be stag'd to th' show
Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and ofUnto an enemy's triumph.
Vavassor,[15] a learned French jesuit, entered at greater lengthUp to a whore, who now are levying
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ARE MADE TO YOU ASUpon a tawny front. His captain's heart,
WHAT IF YOU *WANT* TO SEND MONEY EVEN IF YOU DON'T HAVE TO?Upon her great disaster.
WHEN A FOX who had never yet seen a Lion, fell in with him byUpon himself.                       Exeunt all but ENOBARBUS
WHEN MAN first saw the Camel, he was so frightened at his vastUpon his son; who, high in name and power,
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BEUpon the first encounter drave them.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BEUpon the hill of Basan to outroar
WOLF, meeting with a Lamb astray from the fold, resolved not toUpon the hills adjoining to the city
WRITE TO US! We can be reached at:Upon the present state, whose numbers threaten;
We had better bear our troubles bravely than try to escape them.Upon the slime and ooze scatters his grain,
We must make friends in prosperity if we would have their help inUpon this jump.                                       Exeunt
We need your donations more than ever!Upon thy promising fortune.
We need your donations more than ever!Upon your Grace's part; black and fearful
We produce about one million dollars for each hour we work.  OneUpon your will to suffer.
We produce about two million dollars for each hour we work.  TheUse me well in't. Sister, prove such a wife
We would prefer to send you this information by emailVanquish'd thereto by the fair grace and speech
We would strongly prefer to send you this information by emailVery necessity of this thought, that I,
Weasel said that he had a special hostility to mice.  The BatVouchsaf'd to think he had partners. You shall find there
Western Empire, has handed down some of these fables in verse,Was 'Antony! most noble Antony!'
What is most truly valuable is often underrated.Was a sweet creature; such a ring as this,
What's bred in the bone will stick to the flesh.Was beastly dumb'd by him.
Whatever you do, do with all your might.Was beaten from Modena, where thou slew'st
When all other email fails try our Michael S. Hart, Executive Director:Was borne so like a soldier that thy cheek
When each had fully stated his case the Ape announced thisWas both herself and Love; O, then, give pity
When he saw them leaping about in the net upon the rock he said:Was foully snatch'd.
When its head was knocked off, out came a stream of gold, whichWas in my nobler thoughts most base is now
When she saw that she could get no redress and that her wordsWas made much poorer by it; but your son,
When the Crane had extracted the bone and demanded the promisedWas never so emboss'd.
When the Fox approached the tree, the Dog sprang out and caughtWas never yet for sleep.
While the Sparrow was thus speaking, a hawk suddenly seized himWas theme for you; you were the word of war.
While the two were reclining in their chamber, Venus wishing toWash the congealment from your wounds and kiss
Who will wake you to your daily tasks or tell you when it is timeWast shot at with fair eyes, to be the mark
Why is this "small print" statement here?  You know: lawyers.We are reconcil'd, and the first view shall kill
Why, you two fellows are better able to carry the poor beast thanWe have beat them to their beds. What, girl! though grey
Wolf passing by and immediately began to taunt and revile him.We have caught the woodcock, and will keep him muffled
Wolf should come, we will kill him."  The Wolf, hearing theseWe have convenient convoy. You must know
Wolf was at once taken and flayed; whereon the Fox, turning toWe have jaded out o' th' field.
Woodcutter:  whereon he called to him and reproached him, saying,We have lost our labour; they are gone a contrary way. Hark! you
Workman seized it greedily, and declared that truly it was theWe may the number of the ships behold,
Xanthus and Jadmon, the latter of whom gave him his liberty as aWe mean to fight. Within our files there are
YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.We met him thitherward; for thence we came,
Yielding up her last breath, she gasped forth this lament:  "OWe must return to th' court of guard. The night
You agree that if you distribute one or more copies of thisWe please them not by land.
You agree that if you distribute this etext or a copy of it toWe please to have it grow. Check thy contempt;
Youth's first duty is reverence to parents.We scorn her most when most she offers blows.         Exeunt
Zeal should not outrun discretion.We sent our schoolmaster; is 'a come back?
["Small Print" V.12.08.93]We shall appear before him.- On, there; pass along.
[10] Both these publications are in the British Museum, and areWe shall remain in friendship, our conditions
[11] Fables may possibly have been not entirely unknown to theWe shall thrive now. Seest thou, my good fellow?
[12] Post-medieval Preachers, by S. Baring-Gould.  Rivingtons,We stand up peerless.
[13] For an account of this work see the Life of PoggioWe then can do't at land.
[14] Professor Theodore Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii.We will bind and hoodwink him so that he shall suppose no other
[15] Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" wasWe will here part.
[16] The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in theWe wish it ours again; the present pleasure,
[17] Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, haltingWe'd fight there too. But this it is, our foot
[18] See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles ofWe'll be before our welcome.
[19] Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, andWe'll ne'er come there again.'
[1]  Only give exact copies of it.  Among other things, this re-We'll sift this matter further.
[1] A History of the Literature of Ancient Greece, by K.  O.We'll speak with thee at sea; at land thou know'st
[1] M. Bayle thus characterises this Life of Aesop by Planudes,We'll strive to bear it for your worthy sake
[1] you may not read or use the etext, and [2] you will receiveWe, poising us in her defective scale,
[2]  Honor the terms and conditions applicable to distributorsWeep for my pardon. So it must be, for now
[2] Select Fables of Aesop, and other Fabulists.  In three books,Welcome, my good Alexas. Did I, Charmian,
[3]  Pay a trademark license fee of 20% (twenty percent) of theWere I the wearer of Antonius' beard,
[3] Some of these fables had, no doubt, in the first instance, aWere in his pride or sharpness; if they were,
[4] Hesiod.  Opera et Dies, verse 202.Were mine at once. No; come thou home, Rousillon,
[5] Aeschylus.  Fragment of the Myrmidons.  Aeschylus speaks ofWere nice and lucky, men did ransom lives
[6] Fragment.  38, ed.  Gaisford.  See also Mueller's History ofWere publicly enthron'd; at the feet sat
[7] M. Bayle has well put this in his account of Aesop.  "Il n'y aWere to import forgetfulness in me.
[8] Plato in Ph2done.Were to remember that the present need
[9] Apologos en! misit tibiWere we before our arinies, and to fight,
[Mac users, do NOT point and click. . .type]Were well deserv'd of rashness.
a Mule, both well laden.  The Ass, as long as he traveled alongWere't not that we stand up against them all,
a PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext) disclaims all liability to you forWhat I can help thee to thou shalt not miss.          Exeunt
a Wild Sow, with her young, took shelter in a hollow at its foot.What Venus did with Mars.
a bug in it that scrambles the date [tried to fix and failed] aWhat an equivocal companion is this!
a cock."  Jupiter replied, "Why do you blame me without a cause? IWhat are you?
a covering of hides; and nothing so good as leather."What art thou, fellow?
a dead body.  When he was quite gone, the other TravelerWhat counts harsh fortune casts upon my face;
a defense; why, then, O Mother! do the hounds frighten you so?"What dar'st thou venture?
a double allowance of barley.  From that day the Hen became fatWhat further comes.
a feast, and there is always much food remaining; come and supWhat great creation and what dole of honour
a goat, she suddenly seized a piece of the flesh, and carried it,What hath been cannot be. Who ever strove
a great favorite with his master, who often fondled him andWhat hoop should hold us stanch, from edge to edge
a heavily armed soldier mounted the Horse, and riding him to theWhat husband in thy power I will command.
a lamb and carried him aloft in his talons.  A Jackdaw, whoWhat is infirm from your sound parts shall fly,
a leaf and let it fall into the stream close to her.  The AntWhat is most right. Mine honour was not yielded,
a little pleasure we have destroyed ourselves."What is not holy, that we swear not by,
a most appropriate subject for your falsehoods, as I am sure noneWhat it is worth embrac'd.
a narrow passage which led to his stall.  A young Calf came up,What law does vouch mine own.
a proverb, "The Phrygian has spoken better than all."What majesty is in her gait? Remember,
a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it on request withinWhat mean you, madam? I have made no fault.             Exit
a reward.  The Cobbler, under the fear of death, confessed thatWhat our contempts doth often hurl from us
a single man of your troop.  I have no arms, and carry nothingWhat power is it which mounts my love so high,
a single small Fish as the result of his day's labor.  The Fish,What say you to that?
a small portion, that he might carry home the rest; but the MuleWhat says the married woman? You may go.
a translator equally qualified for his task, in the ReverendWhat she has done for me?
a vow to offer some frankincense at his shrine.  But when rescuedWhat should not then be spar'd. He is already
a word of salutation to his host, who had not given him any causeWhat should this mean?
able to eat afforded the Fox much amusement.  The Crane, in hisWhat was't to you?
about 300 B.C., is said to have made the first collection ofWhat will ye do?
about a hundred and fifty of these fables.  Little is known ofWhat willingly he did confound he wail'd,
about his master as he had seen the Lapdog do, but he broke theWhat woman's that?
about, bit the Crow with a mortal wound.  In the agony of death,What you require of him? For he partly begs
about, so that the Partridge became grievously troubled andWhat's this for?
above disclaimers, exclusions and limitations may not apply toWhat, Eros, Eros!
absurdites grossieres qui l'on y trouve le rendent indigne deWhate'er falls more. We must to horse again;
accept the following terms, conditions and disclaimers.  If youWhate'er the course, the end is the renown.           Exeunt
accommodate him.Whate'er the ocean pales or sky inclips
accomplish for your own benefit, and for my master's injury."When Antony found Julius Caesar dead,
accord, incur destruction and trust yourself in the house of yourWhen Caesar and your brother were at blows,
accordance with his own nature and powers.  The Fox discoveredWhen I am buried. Since Frenchmen are so braid,
according to my deserts.  If I had only been willing to assistWhen I did love you ill? This has no holding,
account of his greater abundance of food, said, "How shamefullyWhen I forget to send to Antony
acknowledged as King of all the collected beasts?'  While he wasWhen I have envied thy behaviour.
act sincerely by me, and show yourself in your true colors.  IfWhen I have found it. The Count he woos your daughter
addressed him:  "Butt away as much as you will.  I have no fear ofWhen I shall pray 'O, bless my lord and husband!'
addressed him:  "I would advise you to go into that field.  It isWhen I should take possession of the bride,
addressed himself to a File, and asked of him the favor of aWhen I was green in judgment, cold in blood,
admit a wolf into the fold?'When at Philippi he found Brutus slain.
admit any interference from you in our affairs."When back again this ring shall be deliver'd.
admitted him into the cote, they found that he made more havocWhen better fall, for your avails they fell.
admonition against the power of flattery.  There is no need of aWhen briers shall have leaves as well as thorns
adulthood, proceeded to steal things of still greater value.  AtWhen half to half the world oppos'd, he being
adversity.When haply he shall hear that she is gone
advice and said, "Why? If I should do so, it would be as if IWhen he hath mus'd of taking kingdoms in,
advice without perceiving the presence of the adviser.  Thus theWhen he shines by. I say again, thy spirit
advice," his companion replied.  "Never travel with a friend whoWhen his wife's dead; therefore I'll lie with him
advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion andWhen it is all to nought, and his quails ever
afraid of a tiny gnat, I will no more complain, nor wish myselfWhen it was out-'Let me not live' quoth he
afraid of both.  The Lion cheerfully assented to the proposal.When judges have been babes. Great floods have flown
after a good day's sport, he always gave the Housedog a largeWhen men revolted shall upon record
after a while taught it to steal lambs from the neighboringWhen miracles have by the greatest been denied.
after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as theWhen most impeached, stands least in thy control.
after his buffetings with the deep.  After a while he awoke, andWhen my good stars, that were my former guides,
after his death, took their spades and mattocks and carefully dugWhen oil and fire, too strong for reason's force,
after the nuptials, the Eagle said, "Fly off and bring me backWhen one so great begins to rage, he's hunted
after us, you would in the same manner prefer them to ourselves."When our most learned doctors leave us, and
after warning him that he would repent his request, caused him toWhen our quick minds lie still, and our ills told us
after, he went to the daughter who had married the tilemaker, andWhen rather from our acts we them derive
afterward he came up to a Shepherd and fawned upon him, waggingWhen rioting in Alexandria; you
afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations onWhen saucy trusting of the cozen'd thoughts
afterwards a birdcatcher came and stood under the tree, and laidWhen shrill-tongu'd Fulvia scolds. The messengers!
afterwards the Bat again fell to the ground and was caught byWhen the best hint was given him, he not took't,
afterwards, finding her words were true, they wondered at herWhen thou wast here above the ground, I was
again caught in a snare, he passed by Apollo and made the sameWhen vantage like a pair of twins appear'd,
again in want of dates, and therefore looks quiet."When you are dead, you should be such a one
again to the inn.When you have conquer'd my yet maiden bed,
again.  The Eagle took flight, and pouncing upon a hare, broughtWhen you have well deserv'd ten times as much
against the injustice of Providence, which would for the sake ofWhen you sally upon him, speak what terrible language you will;
against the intended mischief.  And, lastly, he inveighed againstWhen your sweet self was got.
against the signboard, jarring herself terribly.  Having brokenWhence honour but of danger wins a scar,
against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  TheWhere Caesar fought with Pompey. But these offers,
ages, the position of the first of moralists.[7]Where Caesar's is not; but near him thy angel
agreed to assist the Wild Ass with his strength, while the WildWhere Cupid got new fire; my mistress' eyes.
aimed at my roots, but I do grieve at being torn in pieces byWhere I will write. All may be well enough.
air, brought back the shabbiest possible mouse, stinking from theWhere be the sacred vials thou shouldst fill
alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, atWhere both not sin, and yet a sinful fact.
alike to all, but singly, and separately; and one by one to thoseWhere death and danger dogs the heels of worth.
alive, you would soon find out that his claws were stronger thanWhere death is sure. Yon ribaudred nag of Egypt-
all countries.Where do the palmers lodge, I do beseech you?
all killed his sheep, and then his goats, for the maintenance ofWhere dust and damn'd oblivion is the tomb
all other men, but you destroy the clothes of him who feeds you."Where great additions swell's, and virtue none,
all others' rights are protected, I alone should suffer wrong."Where hast thou been, my heart? Dost thou hear, lady?
all poisons, and obtained a great name for himself by long-windedWhere hope is coldest, and despair most fits.
all present themselves before him, when he would himself chooseWhere is he now?
all the profit.Where love's strong passion is impress'd in youth.
all the time he was speaking, to the hut where the Fox layWhere most it promises; and oft it hits
all the young fellows will propose to me, but I will toss my headWhere most she satisfies; for vilest things
all these things, changed his mind, and commiserated the Horse.Where noble fellows strike. War is no strife
all very well in the spring, but mine protect me against theWhere now half tales be truths. Her love to both
all your locusts too!"Where rather I'll expect victorious life
all, beginning with yourself?'Where she yet never was.                       Exit, guarded
all.  He first blamed the work of Neptune because he had not madeWhere souls do couch on flowers, we'll hand in hand,
alliance being formed between them.  One very cold wintry day, asWhere the impression of mine eye infixing,
alliance with him to their mutual advantage.  The Lion replied,Where their appointment we may best discover
alone and terribly dejected.  He inquired of her, "Who art thou?"Where think'st thou he is now? Stands he or sits he?
alone challenged him to combat.  The Bowman immediately shot outWhere you have never come- or sent it us
along a pool and twittering gaily.  He supposed that summer hadWhere you shall host. Of enjoin'd penitents
along with a burning cinder, to her nest.  A strong breeze soonWhere's Fulvia's process? Caesar's I would say? Both?
alternatively give you a second opportunity to receive itWherefore my father should revengers want,
although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, asWherein the worship of the whole world lies.
altogether contradictory and unreasonable; for when I paid youWherein toward me my homely stars have fail'd
altogether deficient in spirit, he assumed such boldness as toWhereof the world takes note. Come, come, disclose
always fought on the side which he felt was the strongest.  WhenWhether I have been to blame or no, I know not:
am sure than I can see, Mother!"  In the desire to prove to himWhether I live or die, be you the sons
am, and I will undertake to find some favorable opportunity ofWhich I do owe you.
am."Which I have sometime known.
ambassadorial missions, undertaken at the command of Croesus, wasWhich I presume shall render you no blame,
ambassadors to Jupiter entreating for a King.  Perceiving theirWhich I will over-pay and pay again
ambush in the hope of making them his prey, but was afraid toWhich I would fain shut out. If it should prove
amity.  The Hare said, "Oh, how I have longed to see this day, inWhich beasts would cough at. Thy palate then did deign
among the beasts, a Lion and a Boar came at the same moment to aWhich both thy duty owes and our power claims;
among themselves.  When he failed to heal their disputes by hisWhich break themselves in swearing!
an a woman in her quarrels.  I repeat that I am altogether moreWhich but attends thy naming.
an acre in length, be afraid of the Lion? Ought I not to beWhich challenges itself as honour's born
an arrow and said to the Lion:  "I send thee my messenger, thatWhich comes to punish us, and we punish it,
an axe."  They had not gone far before they saw the owner of theWhich die for goodness, who have lived for crime.
an ill-favored and contemptible insect who delights in suckingWhich fronted mine own peace. As for my wife,
an intimate acquaintance with a Frog, who lived for the most partWhich great Love grant; and so I take my leave.
an old man, said, "Let us cease lamenting, my mates, for, as itWhich had superfluous kings for messengers
andWhich has no need of you; be gone.
andWhich he achiev'd by th' minute, lost his favour.
andWhich holds him much to have.
andWhich holds not colour with the time, nor does
and I do believe you, Fox, to have stolen what you so stoutlyWhich if thou hast considered, let us know
and Juno.  When the sum at which they were valued was named, heWhich in the scuffles of great fights hath burst
and a Housedog, taught to watch the house.  When he returned homeWhich lay nice manners by, I put you to
and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS.Which leaves itself. To the sea-side straight way.
and a third blow with his axe.  When he reached the hollow of theWhich might be felt; that we, the poorer born,
and accounts for the universal favor, of the fables of Aesop.Which might have well becom'd the best of men
and acquaintances.  His Dog availed himself of the occasion toWhich my despair proclaims. Let that be left
and aghast, stood looking at the wagon, and did nothing but utterWhich never shall be found- you did suspect
and amused himself by frightening all the foolish animals he metWhich promises royal peril. Trumpeters,
and as the Traveler and the owner of the Ass both claimed it, aWhich seem'd to tell them his remembrance lay
and attack us before we have done any harm.  If you would onlyWhich serve not for his vantage, he shakes off;
and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The FablesWhich she entreated. Our courteous Antony,
and besides, I by no means wish to come near you."Which should sustain the bound and high curvet
and breaking its horn, begged the Goat not to tell his master.Which some did die to look on. And all this-
and captured a great haul of fish.  He managed by a skillfulWhich still should go with Antony.
and care, but hates and neglects the other.  It happened onceWhich they distil now in the curbed time,
and citizens of great renown."  The Fox replied, "You have chosenWhich thus she hath prevented.
and decreed that henceforth the Ills should visit the earth inWhich to the tune of flutes kept stroke, and made
and downs of fortune."Which warp'd the line of every other favour,
and drew up conditions for a universal league, in which the WolfWhich we ascribe to heaven. The fated sky
and drove him for the third time to the coast, where he bought aWhich were the greatest obloquy i' th' world
and each one helped himself to a share of the food which had beenWhich were the greatest obloquy i' th' world
and editing by those who wish to do so.  To be sure you have anWhich will become you both, farewell.
and enjoy its contents at his leisure.  The Fox, unable even toWhich you will wonder at.
and exclaimed:  "Woe to me a stranger! that in this place whereWhich, as I take't, we shall; for his best force
and expelled him from the mansions of Olympus.Which, as the dearest issue of his practice,
and helpless, were roasted in their nest and dropped down dead atWhich, as your due, time claims, he does acknowledge;
and her kittens.Which, being dried with grief, will break to powder,
and if you rid me of these which are already satiated, othersWhich, followed well, would demonstrate them now
and immediately pretended to be lame.  The Wolf, coming up,Which, like the courser's hair, hath yet but life
and jest, beneath the fiction of an occurrence happening amongWhich, on your just proceeding, I'll keep off-
and killed him.  The Hare was comforted in her death, andWhich, whilst it was mine, had annex'd unto't
and killing the tree.  But finding the Fig-Tree denuded ofWhile I was speaking, oft was fasten'd to't.
and later than the era of Aesop, rightfully bears his name,While shameful hate sleeps out the afternoon.
and lay down in a dark corner.  A Mouse, supposing him to beWhilst I can shake my sword or hear the drum.
and learning the reason of his doing so, said to him, "You areWhilst yet with Parthian blood thy sword is warm
and leave us as we are."Whilst you abide here.
and lift up my voice to the stars, while you walk below, like aWhilst-
and live with us as brothers should? We differ from you in oneWhip him. Were't twenty of the greatest tributaries
and make his meal on him.  The Bull, on approaching the Lion'sWhistling to th' air; which, but for vacancy,
and not separating before one had well beaten the other.  He thenWhither I am going.
and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermonsWhither straight I'll lead you.
and offered to go before and show him the way by which he couldWho art as black as hell, as dark as night.
and ordered them to break it in pieces.  They tried with allWho at Philippi the good Brutus ghosted,
and pointed out the prey; the Lion sprang on it and seized it.Who does i' th' wars more than his captain can
and preserved his life by his melody.Who hath abus'd me as he knows himself,
and refuse them every one."  At this moment she tossed her head inWho hath, for four or five removes, come short
and said to him, "O thou most base fellow? how can I believeWho have been false to Fulvia? Riotous madness,
and said, "Destruction is preparing for you, and for me too,Who neigh'd so high that what I would have spoke
and said, "It was not my fault.  master:  my spirit was as good asWho pays before, but not when he does owe it.
and said, "What would you do if you had to live here always as weWho seeks, and will not take when once 'tis offer'd,
and seeing the Hart, shot an arrow from his bow and struck it.Who shuns thy love shuns all his love in me.
and sent a second deputation to Jupiter to pray that he would setWho tells me true, though in his tale lie death,
and sleek, and never once laid another egg.Who then recovers. Say thou art mine, and ever
and slew a larger number of them in one day than the Kite couldWhoever charges on his forward breast,
and squeaked and resisted violently.  The Sheep and the GoatWhoever gave it you. Then, if you know
and still others after them.  A very old Mouse, who had escapedWhoever shoots at him, I set him there;
and stood under the branches, saying how earnestly he desired toWhom I myself embrace to set him free.'
and strong, you submit to the wrongs you receive from men andWhom everything becomes- to chide, to laugh,
and supperless, so contrary to his wont.  He replied:  "Why,Whom leprosy o'ertake!- i' th' midst o' th' fight,
and swifter, and more used to running, and you have your horns asWhom ne'er the word of 'No' woman heard speak,
and that all his goods were being stolen.  He sighed heavily andWhom sometime I have laugh'd with. Let your Highness
and that the herbage was most tender.  She replied, "No, myWhom these things cannot blemish- yet must Antony
and the Kid was dancing, some hounds hearing the sound ran up andWhose aged honour cites a virtuous youth,
and the Lamb, the Panther and the Kid, the Tiger and the Stag,Whose baser stars do shut us up in wishes,
and the Sow, terrified by the Eagle, did not dare to go out fromWhose beauty did astonish the survey
and the founder of this class of writing, which has ever sinceWhose better issue in the war from Italy
and then you will die from the loss of it."Whose bosom was my crownet, my chief end-
and there hatched seven young birds.  A Serpent gliding past theWhose dear perfection hearts that scorn'd to serve
and therefore man in his middle age is fond of work, devoted toWhose eye beck'd forth my wars and call'd them home,
and to the crow, unfavorable auguries.  These are all contentedWhose fortunes shall rise higher, Caesar's or mine?
and too much work made a petition to Jupiter to be released fromWhose great decision hath much blood let forth
and variety of his horns, but felt angry with himself for havingWhose he is we are, and that is Caesar's.
and waking him from his slumber thus addressed him:  "Good Sir,Whose heart I thought I had, for she had mine,
and was employed by that monarch in various difficult andWhose high respect and rich validity
and when he inquired how she had got on and how the servants hadWhose love is never link'd to the deserver
and when the trumpet summoned him to his standard, the SoldierWhose nature sickens but to speak a truth.
and while they eat the mutton throw only the bones to you.  IfWhose virtue and whose general graces speak
and wished that he himself could obtain the same honors.  He wentWhose want, and whose delay, is strew'd with sweets,
and with men.  I envy you your beauty and your perfume."  The RoseWhy did he marry Fulvia, and not love her?
and would not permit the shepherd to approach.Why do you send so thick?
and you for dry weather, with which of the two am I to join myWhy not a mother? When I said 'a mother,'
animals he was the most tender in his regard for man, for he hadWhy then, good night indeed.
animals of the field, the birds of the air, the trees of theWhy, that you are my daughter?
announced to him that the doors of his house had been broken openWill answer as a law.
another King.  Jupiter, displeased with all their complaints,Will be himself.
another Weasel, whom he likewise entreated not to eat him.  TheWill e'en but kiss Octavia, and we'll follow.
another neighbor purchased him and allowed his feathers to growWill fight with him by sea.
another.Will give thee all the world.
answer:  "You have only to thank yourselves for the misfortunes toWill leap to be his friend. For us, you know
answered him:  "We indeed wish you well, but the danger is notWill not confess he owes the malady
answering birds?'  The Birdcatcher spared his life, and determinedWill not sustain it.
any danger, but supposing that on the morrow they would find himWill yield us up.
any person who invented a new amusement for the occasion.Will you be mine now you are doubly won?
any wound."Will you draw near?            Exeunt COUNTESS and GENTLEMEN
anyone, you will indemnify and hold the Project, its officers,Will you go see her?
anywhere near him as to that, there were in Rhodes many personsWill you lead, lords?
apparatus or confederates, and the very sense of expectationWilt thou not answer, man?                     Exit DERCETAS
appeared on the stage.  The Buffoon grunted and squeaked awayWisdom and fortune combating together,
application.Wisdom, and constancy, hath amaz'd me more
apply to you, and you may have other legal rights.Wish chastely and love dearly that your Dian
appointed day arrived, and the birds had assembled beforeWishers were ever fools. O come, come,
appointed, and seeing the preparations for so grand anWith all bound humbleness.
approach him.  Soon afterwards, observing that he was an animalWith all the spots o' th' world tax'd and debauch'd,
are a friend whom I would love to hear enjoying good eating."  TheWith all their sixty, fly and turn the rudder.
are not only blind, but that you have lost your sense of smell.With an augmented greeting.
are not yet even within sight."With an importing visage; and she told me
are occupied with one short narrative, from which the moralWith an unslipping knot, take Antony
are the most continually in peril of the axe."  Jupiter madeWith any branch or image of thy state;
are times when the small and lowly are the strongest to doWith brazen din blast you the city's ear;
are unable to heal your own lame gait and wrinkled skin?'With caution, that the Florentine will move us
army to command them, and that they were exposed to dangers fromWith clouts about their heads.
arose, and the Lamp was immediately extinguished.  Its owner litWith divers-colour'd fans, whose wind did seem
arriving at home they prepared to kill the Cock, who thus pleadedWith fervency drew up.
as I can hire, and will get in the harvest."  The Lark on hearingWith half the bulk o' th' world play'd as I pleas'd,
as a king could be.  During his reign he made a royalWith her prepared nails.                      Exit CLEOPATRA
as he could.  The shepherd, seeing what had happened, ran up andWith his inducement.
as he remembered.  Demetrius Phalereus, a philosopher at AthensWith his tinct gilded thee.
as it were a hundred eyes, and until he has come and gone, yourWith keels of every kind. Many hot inroads
as its feeding ground.  A Fox came across him, and being veryWith knaves that smell of sweat. Say this becomes him-
as many as he could possibly hold, but when he tried to pull outWith looking on his life.
as the war lasted, he looked upon him as his fellow-helper in allWith most delicious poison. Think on me,
as they could to their holes.  The generals, not being able toWith musics of all sorts, and songs compos'd
as treasure trove of his kingdom, and counseled him to lay holdWith one that in her sex, her years, profession,
as was the custom among men.  After these preparations heWith one that ties his points?
as you have hairs in your beard, you would never have gone downWith principalities.
as your words, and if your hands had not been traitors to yourWith sainted vow my faults to have amended.
as yours, going to be King over the Beasts?"With several applications. Nature and sickness
ascend the steep path of the mountain, felt his load to be moreWith sharp constraint of hunger; better 'twere
aside, therefore, your fears.  I return as an enemy only to thoseWith ships made cities, condemn myself to lack
ask me? Is it that the level way through the desert is closed?"With sorrowful water? Now I see, I see,
asked him which he would like best, to go up hill or down.  TheWith spritely fire and motion; whose simple touch
asked him, "How can you pretend to prescribe for others, when youWith strife to please you, day exceeding day.
assailed with impunity, he let drive at his forehead with hisWith such full licence as both truth and malice
assembly and addressed the citizens:  "Of what folly have you beenWith that malignant cause wherein the honour
assembly, he sat down amidst universal applause.  The Camel,With the arm'd rest, courtiers of beauteous freedom,
assembly.With the green sickness.
assertion to be simply impossible, assented to the proposal; andWith thine entirely.
assigned by the will of the Fates--to thee, beauty; to the eagle,With trees upon't that nod unto the world
assigned to any one of these places, yet there are a fewWith true observance seek to eke out that
assistance, was unable to do so, as he could not by any meansWith very ignorance; we have kiss'd away
assistance.  The Wolf, having no cause of fear, at his leisureWith vilest torture let my life be ended.
assured him that he was not a mouse, but a bat, and thus a secondWith what is spoke already.
at his request because he was not satisfied with his size andWith what it loathes, for that which is away.
at night.Within ten year it will make itself ten, which is a goodly
ate greedily.  Their feet, however, became so smeared with theWithin there, and our viands! Fortune knows
ation, modification or addition to the etext by you or for whichWithout all terms of pity. Speak; thine answer.
attack him on account of his great size, resorted to a trick toWithout some pleasure now. What sport to-night?
attack him, and galloped after him for that purpose.  He had runWithout the which a soldier and his sword
attack them while they kept together.  Having at last by guilefulWork without it. Truth is, that Fulvia,
attacking him, approached and placed his foot upon his lap.  TheWorth name of life in thee hath estimate:
attained the use of their wings and the full plumage of theirWorthy the note.
attempt to injure one of them.  The Shepherd at first stood onWould each to other, and all loves to both,
attempted to lick his master, and jumped upon his back.  TheWould in so just a business shut his bosom
attention fixed on the sky, he fell accidentally into a deepWould not be purg'd, she sent you word she was dead;
attention to the summons.  At last the Goatherd threw a stone,Would quite confound distinction, yet stand off
attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures andWould she had never given you leave to come!
attract purchasers, he cried out that he had the statue to sellWould stand and make his eyes grow in my brow;
attracted other street dogs, who came up to him and inquired howWould then be nothing. Truths would be tales,
attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in aWould we had spoke together! Haste we for it.
avenged with a stroke of his tusks a long-remembered injury.Wouldst thou be window'd in great Rome and see
away.  The Tanner put off his departure from time to time, sayingWrapp'd in a paper, which contain'd the name
awoke and scudded away.  The Lion was unable after a long chaseWrite, write, that from the bloody course of war
axe pursuing them, and he who had picked up the axe said, "We areWritten to bear along.
axes in addition to his own.    The Workman, on his return to hisY'are great in fortune.
back a double burden.Yea, like the stag when snow the pasture sheets,
bade him pour upon the wounds the lungs of a Goat.  They at onceYet I express to you a mother's care.
bare plowlands, eating there wheat-stocks and roots pulled upYet cannot hold this visible shape, my knave.
battle."  "Forbear," said the Miller to him, "harping on what wasYet do not so, but since I am near slain,
be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred andYet have I fierce affections, and think
be eaten by you."Yet in this captious and intenible sieve
be epileptic and fall into a ditch and so obtain rest.  The AssYet never know how that desert should be.
be fraught with lessons of general utility, and of universalYet so they mourn becoming of their woe,
be injured, the Fox led him to a deep pit and arranged that heYet these fix'd evils sit so fit in him
be instructed, he travelled through many countries, and amongYet this shall I ne'er know but live in doubt,
be like us in outside appearances.Yet who would have suspected an ambush where I was taken?
be overladen with a multiplicity of details, nor distracted by aYet you desire to marry.
be praised for what I have been, than to be blamed for what IYet, coming from him, that great med'cine hath
be relit"Yet, ere we put ourselves in arms, dispatch we
be sold to a tile-maker.  Shortly afterwards, finding that he hadYet, for our gentlemen that mean to see
be sure to repay your kindness." The Lion laughed and let him go. ItYet, if thou say Antony lives, is well,
be very heavy, they danced about for joy and supposed that theyYou are no maiden, but a monument;
beasts; and wherever we have any ancient and authentic account ofYou barely leave our thorns to prick ourselves,
beautiful plumage.  Supposing that the Swan's splendid whiteYou do not hold the method to enforce
beautiful voices.  They replied, "The dew."  The Ass resolved thatYou give away heaven's vows, and those are mine;
beautiful.  When their strife was at its height, a Bramble fromYou give away myself, which is known mine;
became entangled in the ram's fleece and he was not able toYou give away this hand, and that is mine;
became poorer and poorer.  At last, being very angry, he took hisYou got it from her. She call'd the saints to surety
because he composed so large a number (all framed in the sameYou have been nobly borne.- From me awhile.        Exit EROS
because its berries were so delicious.  A Fowler observed herYou have my father's house- but what? We are friends.
because of his promise.  He thus answered the Bee:  "You shallYou know my father left me some prescriptions
because of the beauty of his plumage, the birds indignantlyYou know not what it is.
become broken-winded, was sent by his owner to the farm.  TheYou love my son; invention is asham'd,
become greatly extended and magnified, and he said to himself,You may pace easy, but not such a wife.
becoming his servant.  Each undertook his proper duty inYou may so in the end.
been caused by you."You must not marvel, Helen, at my course,
been exposed to a two-fold accusation.  He is charged on the oneYou must not stay here longer; your dismission
been furnished by himself.  "It is a double grief to me," heYou must to Parthia. Your commission's ready;
before him bread, barley, beans, dried figs, honey, raisins, and,You ne'er oppress'd me with a mother's groan,
before his feet.  The Viper, turning about, stung him, andYou never had a servant to whose trust
before you had inspected the way up, nor have exposed yourself toYou patch'd up your excuses.
began chasing the Wolf.  Turning to the Kid, he said, "It is justYou saw one here in court could witness it.
began to boast of their respective superiority to each other inYou see we have burnt our cheeks. Strong Enobarb
behind him, was led away to the place of public execution.  HisYou shall have time to wrangle in when you have nothing else to
being carried away by the rush of the stream, was on the point ofYou shall hear from me still; the time shall not
being greatly alarmed, he threw himself into the river, where aYou take me in too dolorous a sense;
being in great torment and not knowing how to rid himself of hisYou that have turn'd off a first so noble wife
being very envious of the handicraft of each, found fault withYou wager'd on your angling; when your diver
believe me, any order of merit, but on the contrary a mark ofYou were half blasted ere I knew you. Ha!
believe me, is sweet as the lyre of Apollo, I shall indulgeYou would have followed.
benefit of men, that they might rise in time for their labors.You'll serve another master. I look on you
benefit."You'll win two days upon me.
bent on mischief, took from his pocket a handful of nuts andYoung Bertram.
besought her to stop chirping.  The Grasshopper refused toYour Highness with herself.
besought permission to rear her puppies in the same spot.  TheYour business was more welcome.
between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some fewYour comfort makes the rescue.
big enough to satisfy the hunger of a Hawk who, if he wantedYour generals after.
bility, cost and expense, including legal fees, that ariseYour gentle hands lend us, and take our hearts.
bird! what have you done? By thus appearing before the springtimeYour heart has mind to.                               Exeunt
birdcatcher came to ensnare them in his nets.  The Cranes, beingYour letters did withhold our breaking forth,
birdcatcher threw down the twigs, and the noise made the DoveYour mariners are muleteers, reapers, people
birds, and made proclamation that on a certain day they shouldYour mother came to Sicily and did find
birds.  Seeing a thrush sitting upon a tree, he wished to takeYour own renowned knowledge; quite forgo
bitterly reviled him.  The Lion said to the Fox, "It is not thouYour partner in the cause 'gainst which he fought,
blame me, my friend, but find fault with the master, who has notYour reconciler! Wars 'twixt you twain would be
blind, I was to give him nothing.  Now he declares that I amYour salt tears' head. Now to all sense 'tis gross
blindness, I am not able to see a single thing in it."Your wife Octavia, with her modest eyes
blood I have left."Yourself shall go between's. The meantime, lady,
blood of Aesop" became a well-Youth, beauty, wisdom, courage, all
blood-sucking flies settled upon him.  A Hedgehog, passing by,[Aside]  One that goes with him. I love him for his sake;
bloomest for ever in renewed youth."[Drums afar off ] Hark! the drums
boar in the chase.  He seized him boldly by the ear, but could[Reads]  'When thou canst get the ring upon my finger, which
boaster, are now all thy gay trappings, thou who are thyself[To DIANA]  If thou beest yet a fresh uncropped flower,
bold stroke at its roots.  The grasshoppers and sparrows[To SCARUS] Give me thy hand-
boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.[16]  These[To THYREUS] To try thy eloquence, now 'tis time. Dispatch;
bolted to the brink of a deep precipice.  While he was in the acta deadly sorrow to behold a foul knave uncuckolded. Therefore,
book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a widera good wing, and I like the wear well.
borne his name, and has secured for him, through all succeedinga metaphor.
bosom and imitated the squeaking of a little pig so admirablya musk-cat, that has fall'n into the unclean fishpond of her
both of these.  It will contain, like the Tale, a short but reala patent for his sauciness; and indeed he has no pace, but runs
branches with stones and sticks.  The Walnut-Tree piteouslya scruple.
briny."a solemn leave. His lordship will next morning for France. The
brought it all on myself! Why could I not have been contented toa very coward I'd compel it of you; but fare you well.
brought out on any stage before.  This report being spread abouta wench that had shed her milk; he hath confess'd himself to
brought out the villagers three or four times by crying out,above is my master.
brought up a golden axe, inquiring if he had lost it.  Theabundance.
bruised.  His master, sending for a leech, asked his advice.  Heaccomplish'd; and, there residing, the tenderness of her nature
bundle from his head.  When the Peasant rose in pursuit, theadmitted.
buried in a hole in the ground by the side of an old wall andadvanc'd by the King than by that red-tail'd humble-bee I speak
burst forth into song and thus made himself known by his voice,advantage in the process but only the losing of hope by time.
bursting out into a great rage, devoured the Ass.  Then headversary's entertainment. Now he hath a smack of all
business."advertisement to a proper maid in Florence, one Diana, to take
but all the beasts of the forest fled at his approach.  The Lionagain into his native quarter, be magnanimous in the enterprise,
but by swinging too hastily, missed its head and cut off only theagain, rather than suffer question for your residence.
but encouraged him.  He next time stole a cloak and brought it toagain.
but now that I have ceased you do so merrily."against any man's metaphor. Prithee, get thee further.
but this one brass trumpet."  "That is the very reason for whichagainst him?
but when she was safe within the cave, sprang upon her and toreagainst his own nobility, in his proper stream, o'erflows
buzzing insect? If it enters my ear, my fate is sealed.  I shouldagainst his valour; and my state that way is dangerous, since I
by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robertage will give me leave.                                 Exit
by William Shakespeareall demands.
by a Wolf.  Seeing he could not escape, he turned round, andall the sight.
by a man younger than herself, made a point, whenever her admirerall treasons we still see them reveal themselves till they attain
by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates analmanacs can report. This cannot be cunning in her; if it be, she
by an almost universal consent, allowed to have been born aboutalmost into another man.
by an early doom.  But thou art immortal and dost never fade, butam for the house with the narrow gate, which I take to be too
by and earnestly begged for a little food.  The Ants inquired ofand I begin to love, as an old man loves money, with no stomach.
by crowing in the nighttime and not permitting them to sleep.and I follow him to his country for justice. Grant it me, O King!
by evil conduct; and you, my daughter, that you may make up forand accordingly valiant.
by his flight the good or evil course of future events.  Seeingand blood are; and, indeed, I do marry that I may repent.
by poverty, began to practice medicine in a town in which he wasand dares better be damn'd than to do 't.
by reason of their numbers had prevailed to possess the earth.and disgraces have of late knock'd to often at my door. I find my
by some be classed amongst works of this description.  The one isand doughy youth of a nation in his colour. Your daughter-in-law
by the imagination, and not necessarily associated with theand go on; I will grace the attempt for a worthy exploit. If you
by the narration of some of his wise fables, to reconcile theand my young lady.
by those with whom you passed the whole day!"and our Isbels o' th' country are nothing like your old ling and
by your equipment.and ravishments he parallels Nessus. He professes not keeping of
by, ridiculing the ashen hue of its plumage and saying, "I amand that with his own hand he slew the Duke's brother.  [Tucket]
calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and theand the case to be lamented. This grief is crown'd with
called out to a passing traveler for help, but instead of holdingand the master I speak of ever keeps a good fire. But, sure, he
called out to him and said, "Get along with you! for I will nowand the tedious of it; and he's of a most facinerious spirit that
came a Buffoon well known among the populace for his jokes, andand thinks himself made in the unchaste composition.
came close to hold a conversation with him.  After a time heanon.                                           Exit STEWARD
came to feed his cattle, but did not see the Stag; and even theanswer to what I shall ask you out of a note.
came to the lump of gold, and stole it.  The Miser, on his nextany question.
can no longer consider you as a friend," said the Satyr, "aanything with it?
can you ride upon the beast, while that poor little lad there canapparel neatly.
cannot eat the hay himself, and yet refuses to allow those to eatare you a courtier?
cannot understand what ailed me to prefer the mill before theas a partizan I could not heave.
capital of Lydia; Samos, a Greek island; Mesembria, an ancientas the nail to his hole, the cuckold to his horn, as a scolding
capture him.  But the Mouse reached his hole in safety.  Thoughaside.
capture the beasts of the forest with greater ease.  The Lionaside] The matter?
captured and eaten by the Weasels.at my house: thither they send one another. I'll question her.
care and eat enough to last me both today and tomorrow."  While heattempt I vow.
care that his sickness should be publicly known.  The beastsaway; know it before the report come. If there be breadth enough
careful maintenance of the individual characteristics of thebe conceal'd awhile.
carefully divided the spoil into three equal shares and modestlybe recovered.
carefully provided for, while he himself had scarcely enough tobeat thee. I think thou wast created for men to breathe
cargo of sponges instead of salt.  The Ass, again playing thebeaten, thou shalt find what it is to be proud of thy bondage. I
carpenters and the farmers, the axe would not so frequently bebecame as a prey to her grief; in fine, made a groan of her last
carried by the Ass in addition to his own, and at the top of allbefore it, and of his creatures, not daring the reports of my
carried off a prisoner, and was eaten by the Hawk.better of you than you have or will to deserve at my hand; but we
carry heavy loads of wood, subjecting him to much slavishblood loves my flesh and blood; he that loves my flesh and blood
carry him, he would contrive effective weapons against the Stag.blow the fire up in Caesar, and, as I said before, that which is
carrying heavy burdens"; and he further advised him to pretend toboy, but for all that very ruttish. I pray you, sir, put it up
carrying the faggots to the city for sale one day, became verybrains are forfeit to the next tile that falls.
casting his net into the sea, made an excellent haul of fish.breath, and now she sings in heaven.
catch mice as he once did.  He therefore rolled himself in flourbreeding.
caught and carried away an ostrich in my talons."  The Eagle,buried in highways, out of all sanctified limit, as a desperate
caught him.  He at once clipped the Jackdaw's wings, and takingbusiness in a main danger fail you.
cause of their complaint.  One of them said, "The Sun, now whilebusiness is but to the court.
cause: [A] distribution of this etext, [B] alteration,business, which he knows is not to be done; damns himself to do,
caused an intense silence.  He suddenly bent his head towards hisbut I must attend his Majesty's command, to whom I am now in
causing the man to call loudly upon Hercules for help.  When thebut bound to't.
cd etext/etext91but little more to say, sir, of his honesty. He has everything
cd etext/etext91but one that lies three-thirds and uses a known truth to pass a
ceased to take any notice of it and would not move.  The Farmer,but that he is carried into the leaguer of the adversaries when
celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I,but that, my offences being many, I would repent out the
century, when the Byzantine emperors were the great patrons ofbuttock, the quatch buttock, the brawn buttock, or any buttock.
certain day to carry out their purpose, and sharpened their hornsby being once lost may be ten times found; by being ever kept, it
certainly want much more for this, as it is the statue of thecamp?
certainty, in reference to the birth, life, and death of Aesop.cannot be denied what I have done by land.
chair.  The boy congratulated himself on his good looks; the girlcannot bring thee.
chance for the first time in the forest, he was so frightenedcannot scratch mine ear. Prithee, tell her but worky-day fortune.
chance with a Fisherman who was bringing home a basket well ladencannot yet find in my heart to repent. Here he comes; I pray you
characterized by the strictest observance of these rules.  Theycanon. Keep it not; you cannot choose but lose by't. Out with't.
characterized himself.  The Horse chose his earliest years andcap, kiss his hand, and say nothing, has neither leg, hands, lip,
charge, rushed into the very midst of the enemy.  The Horse wascat to me.
charge.  An Ape undertook to adjudge the matter between them.cause they should be esteemed nothing. Cleopatra, catching but
chatter, they discovered his true character and drove him forth,causeless. Hence is it that we make trifles of terrors,
cheer, expressed his satisfaction in warm terms and lamented hiscelerity in dying.
cheers of the spectators.  Next the Countryman commenced, andchape of his dagger.
child in speed and spirit."  On the next day, being driven a longcharge his horns with garlands!
child.cheek of two pile and a half, but his right cheek is worn bare.
choose to alternatively give you a replacement copy.  If youcheese; consumes itself to the very paring, and so dies with
circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated intocherisher of my flesh and blood; he that cherishes my flesh and
citizens of Delphi were visited with a series of calamities,child at fifty, to whom Herod of Jewry may do homage. Find me to
civilized world, but are familiar as household words in theclad in his heavy coat of mail.  The Horse fell down straightway
clap upon you two or three probable lies. But we have almostclaim, and.  as she still refused, summoned her before the Judge.
clean; nor believe he can have everything in him by wearing hisclaims all liability to you for damages, costs and expenses,
comes not along with her.clamor you would raise if I were to do as you are doing!"
commission of your birth and virtue gives you heraldry. You arecleansing his feathers as often as he would, he could not change
company anatomiz'd, that he might take a measure of his ownclear-toned bells fastened to his neck.  His companion followed
company, Chitopher, Vaumond, Bentii, two hundred fifty each; soclimbed onto it and floated in safety to the bank.  Shortly
complaints I have heard of you I do not all believe; 'tis myclose beside him.  "For," he said, "if you will bring me drink, I
composition that your valour and fear makes in you is a virtue ofclose of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several
condition, and what credit I have with the Duke.club, and drove him away into the forest.
consolation: your old smock brings forth a new petticoat; andcoat in the Thief's hand and ran as fast as he could into the inn
convoy; and between these main parcels of dispatch effected manycobwebs away."  While he thus examined everything in turn, he
coranto.cock, among the birds of the dunghill."
could be contented to be what they are, there were no fear incollected the feathers which had fallen from the wings of his
counsel, and understand what advice shall thrust upon thee; elsecolony in Thrace; and Cotiaeum, the chief city of a province of
cries out 'No more!'; reconciles them to his entreaty and himselfcolor arose from his washing in the water in which he swam, the
cuckold, he's my drudge. He that comforts my wife is thecombat.  When they stopped suddenly to catch their breath for a
danger is in standing to 't; that's the loss of men, though it becombatants.  Therefore being condemned by each for his treachery,
dare not give. Wherefore, what's the instance? Tongue, I must putcome myself tomorrow with my laborers, and with as many reapers
daughter of Gerard de Narbon?come to my full size.  Pray spare my life, and put me back into
dear Isis, keep decorum, and fortune him accordingly!come, and went and sold his cloak.  Not many days later, winter
deceiv'd by him that in such intelligence hath seldom fail'd.commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his
deceiv'd me like a double-meaning prophesier.committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more
defence, yet is weak. Unfold to us some warlike resistance.common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of
deliver all the intelligence in his power against you, and thatcompanion ran up and drew his sword, and then, throwing back his
deliver'd in the most bitter touch of sorrow that e'er I heardcompanion."
did as you say.companions of yourself, fit at least to be ambassadors and
difference betwixt their two estates; Love no god, that would notcompanions, and stuck them in all parts of his body, hoping
digested. You stay'd well by't in Egypt.company with each other, but that the Goods should one by one
dilated farewell.company."  The Lion said this in the hope that, as the Bull was in
disaster the cheeks.compelled him to drag that heavy log about wherever he went.
discretion.compelled to give to it the same undeniable interpretation.  The
displeasure, and, as he says, is muddied withal. Pray you, sir,compelled to labor.  Shortly afterwards, at the harvest festival,
displeasure.complained of his distressing cries, saying, "He often handles
displeasure.complexion.
disposition.compressed or any proprietary form (including any form resulting
dissuade me from believing thee a vessel of too great a burden. Icomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read
dissuade succession, but that they are limed with the twigs thatconcealed himself in dark hiding-places, flying always alone and
do.concealed himself in the branches.  The other, seeing that he
doubling of files-I would do the man what honour I can-but ofcondemned as false, puerile, and unauthentic.[1]  It is given up
down my dilemmas, encourage myself in my certainty, put myselfconfined burst out afresh, and, standing near the lion, he said:
down.confirmed by later criticism and inquiry.  It remains to state,
drunk to bed.conflict.  The Serpent had the advantage, and was about to
dumb innocent that could not say him nay.conqueror will place on me two sets of panniers?'  "No," rejoined
easily put it off at court. He that cannot make a leg, put off'sconqueror, flying up to a high wall, flapped his wings and crowed
effected.conquerors.  A Bat, fearing the uncertain issues of the fight,
emboss'd him. You shall see his fall to-night; for indeed he isconscious of the value of his burden, and tossed up and down the
enough to go home. What shall I say I have done? It must be aconsist? You can scratch with your claws and bite with your teeth
ensconcing ourselves into seeming knowledge when we should submitconsistency with which the characters of the animals,
entertainment, your inclining cannot be removed. Here he comes.conspicuous to all their troops.  Scarcely had the battle begun,
entrench'd it. Say to him I live; and observe his reports for me.contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth
epicure.contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a
escape a great deal of discoveries; but when you find him out,contained in the various translations and disquisitional
eternal; for doing I am past, as I will by thee, in what motioncontemplated union of Livia, the daughter of Drusus, with Sejanus
excellent command: to charge in with our horse upon our owncontend with the wind, and consequently you are destroyed; while
excels his brother for a coward; yet his brother is reputed onecontinue, and the sun shine hot and bright, so that the bricks
expressive to them; for they wear themselves in the cap of thecontinued to walk along merrily by his side.  Presently they came
extend his might only where qualities were level; Diana no queencontrasted it with the luxury and idleness of the Lapdog, till at
face; if your lordship be in't, as I believe you are, you mustcontributions in money, time, scanning machines, OCR software,
fain to hang you.contrived to take hold of and to pull his ear causing the pig to
fairer; for where an unclean mind carries virtuous qualities,convinced that by endeavoring to please everybody he had pleased
faithfully confirm'd by the rector of the place.copies of this etext if you want to.  As explained in greater
familiarity with fresher clothes; but I am now, sir, muddied incorrector of morals, a censor of vice, and a commender of virtue.
fashion, richly suited but unsuitable; just like the brooch andcorrespondence with the pure Aesopian fable.
father.                             Exeunt BERTRAM and LAFEUcostume.  In the evening he was shut up by the shepherd in the
father. He that so generally is at all times good must ofcouch and pursued the mouse, wishing to eat it.  Venus was much
feeding his own stomach. Besides, virginity is peevish, proud,could find.  Thus it came to pass that between them both he very
fellow, my lord, that so confidently seems to undertake thiscould first strip a wayfaring man of his clothes.  The North Wind
fellow; thou didst make tolerable vent of thy travel; it mightcould not possibly get at it.  He tried everything he could think
fellowship. I had as lief have a reed that will do me no servicecould rout out the Mouse, and crouching down, went to sleep
finest part of pure love. We cannot call her winds and waterscould, to a hole so narrow that two could only find room in it by
first propose. His Highness hath promis'd me to do it; and, tocould.  The Bear soon left him, for it is said he will not touch
flesh; and he must needs go that the devil drives.could.  The travelers turned towards the sound and wondered what
flow'ry way that leads to the broad gate and the great fire.counsel together, and said, "It is time for us to be off, for if
for France.counsel us."
for I look through thee. Give me thy hand.counsel, as well as those most noted for their courage in the
forefinger, as a pancake for Shrove Tuesday, a morris for Mayday,creatures, were easily beguiled and dismissed the Dogs, whereupon
forehead.cried loudly for help, a neighbor ran to the well, and learning
formerly better; marry, yet 'tis a wither'd pear. Will youcried out to his companions:  "Stay, my friends, do not do as you
fortune, his fortune! O, let him marry a woman that cannot go,cried out:  "Pray stop, my boys:  what is sport to you, is death to
fortunes.cries like a child.  A Sparrow upbraided her and said, "Where now
friend, Agrippa!crime.  But when the Lion was released from his cage, he
friends.  [Unmuffling him]  So look about you; know you any here?criminal.  This cruel death of Aesop was not unavenged.  The
from me.critic,[14] as far back as the institution of the Achaian League,
gabble enough, and good enough. As for you, interpreter, you mustcroaking about, as if he had done a good deed.  The unhappy Mouse
gentleman his companion.crocodile caught him and ate him.  Thus the earth, the air, and
gentleman; tricks he hath had in him, which gentlemen have.crop, said, "The time has come when I must ask all my neighbors
glory of the action; and not resting here, accuses him of letterscrow, and her cry, you know, is no omen."
gold.'crushed by these strong winds."  They replied, "You fight and
grass.crushed one of them to death.  The Mother coming up, and missing
great right to be so- Gerard de Narbon.cubs, and feasted herself and her brood.  The Fox on her return,
grief the enemy to the living.cudgel.  The Ass said, "Why, I saw the Monkey do this very thing
guilty of.dainties."  The Country Mouse was easily persuaded, and returned
had been alive at this hour, and your son here at home, moredamages, costs and expenses, including legal fees, and YOU HAVE
hand. How does your drum?danced as well as any of the courtiers.  The spectacle was often
has a knot on 't yet.danger he was running into, took shelter in a farmyard and hid
hath breadth; it is just so high as it is, and moves with it owndanger, was about to drink, when the Eagle struck his hand with
have a desire to hold my acquaintance with thee, or rather mydangers from which you had no means of escape."
have been a great thief by sea.dare to describe me as useless, and unprofitable?'
have ere now, sir, been better known to you, when I have helddates, and set sail.  But a very great tempest came on, and the
have he has nothing.daughter on one condition:  that he should allow him to extract
have now found thee; when I lose thee again I care not; yet artdawned, the Cock, as usual, crowed very loudly several times.  A
have prevented, if he had been there to command.day being intensely hot, and the sun shining in its strength, the
have the patience to hear it.day waiting at the door.  In the evening he heard the same woman
have them still. O, my knave, how does my old lady?day, when it came out of its hole for food, he took up his axe,
he had formerly wrote to Pompey; upon his own appeal, seizes him.day.  They supposed that the Hen must contain a great lump of
he is parted, tell me what a sprat you shall find him; which youdead.  I find myself, even as I am, better off than the
he is?dead.  The Panther, however, when he had recruited his feeble
heads are both one; they may jowl horns together like any deerdealings of Providence, who hast thyself in a similar manner
health for you.death.  Another perished in a similar manner, and then a third,
heed of the allurement of one Count Rousillon, a foolish idledeath:  "I have deserved my present fate; for what had I to do
her honesty, and achieves her goodness.death:  for you may be assured, that though all the Butchers
her marriage, and things which would derive me ill will to speakdeemed a happy windfall the source of my destruction."
her, and talk'd of Satan, and of Limbo, and of Furies, and I knowdeemed the handsomest.  The Monkey came with the rest and
her.deeper, by that load we too often see of accumulated
her; and sworn to make the "not" eternal. You shall hear I am rundefeats was that they had no leaders set apart from the general
her; writ to my lady mother I am returning; entertain'd mydefense.  Upon which a Currier stood up and said, "Sirs, I differ
hereafter. But shall we have this dialogue between the Fool anddefinitely a wolf."
herself, without other advantage, may lawfully make title to asdeformity of Aesop, of wondrous apocryphal stories, of lying
higher, or return again into France?delicate affairs of State.  In his discharge of these commissions
him laughing to his grave, fiftyfold a cuckold! Good Isis, heardelicious! How nice must the Wine itself have been, when it
him shall at home be encount'red with a shame as ample.demanded what sort of food they lived on to give them such
him. But to answer you as you would be understood: he weeps likeden, saw the huge spits and giant caldrons, and no sign whatever
him. I will tell you a thing, but you shall let it dwell darklydeny."
him; but they know his conditions and lay him in straw. I havedeparture.  The Lion inquired why he went off so abruptly without
him; such I will have whom I am sure he knows not from the enemy.depend upon it you will henceforth pray in vain."
himself is a virgin; virginity murders itself, and should bedependent on, the narration, that every reader should be
himself.depict the motives and passions of men, they retain, in an
his design; let him fetch off his drum in any hand.descended from one of the most noble families in that city.  The
his examination; if he do not, for the promise of his life and indescended from the tree, and jocularly inquired of his friend
his heart was not consenting to.described below, [1] the Project (and any other party you may
his own fancy; not to know what we speak one to another, so wedeserts you at the approach of danger."
his reputation with the Duke, and to his valour; what is hisdesiring to revenge himself on the stranger, asked a man if he
honesty.desist, and chirped louder and louder the more the Owl entreated.
honesty; had it stretch'd so far, would have made naturedesperate from hunger, approached the spot.  He was about to
honesty?destroyed, he exclaimed:  "I have been rightly served; why did I
honour of a maid is her name, and no legacy is so rich asdestruction also."
honour's paid to him. He stole from Florence, taking no leave,destruction."
honour; so belike is that.destruction."
hope your own grace will keep you where you are, though theredetail below, if you distribute such copies you may be required
hotter in France than there.determined to emulate the strength and flight of the Eagle.  He
hours in a sleep, and then to return and swear the lies he forges.determined to put an end to themselves and their troubles by
house. Her pretence is a pilgrimage to Saint Jaques le Grand;determined to repay him to the best of their ability.  For this
hundred of them.die even though no one should hurt him, threw in some food to
husband and use him as he uses thee. So, farewell.die presently."  The Lion said, "Well, since so huge a beast is
i' th' herd.differed in no respect from their other hens.  The foolish pair,
idle, made of self-love, which is the most inhibited sin in thedignity, and if you will come when I reach my own stall in the
if I am a courtier: it shall do you no harm to learn.diligent perusal of ancient authors, by a Frenchman, M. Claude
if thou be'st not an ass, I am a youth of fourteen; I have knowndinner and began to eat, the Dog woke up and wagged his tail, as
ill-rooted already; the least wind i' th' world will blow themdinner left their nets upon the bank.  The Monkey, who is the
immortal, and death should have play for lack of work. Would, fordip it in the blood from your wound, and go and give it to the
in coming on he has the cramp.dir [to see files]
in death, which commits some loving act upon her, she hath such adir [to see files]
in his sleep he does little harm, save to his bedclothes aboutdirect channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the
in my similes of comfort, and leave him to your lordship.directly or indirectly from any of the following that you do or
in the world, I will hold a long distance. My duty to you.directors, officers, members and agents harmless from all lia-
in wars; or whether he thinks it were not possible, withdisappeared beneath the water a second time, returned with a
in you it best lies; otherwise a seducer flourishes, and a poordisappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is
in you, even to the world's pleasure and the increase ofdisappeared, the Fox discovered the trick and presenting himself
in your respect.disappointed and again caused her to return to her former shape.
in't that stings his nature; for on the reading it he chang'ddisappointed, and fiercely abused the dog.  The Hound looked up
increase; and the principal itself not much the worse. Awaydisappointment which had befallen them, but because they had
increase; and there was never virgin got till virginity was firstdisappointment.  A bystander said to him, "Be satisfied with half
indeed the tears live in an onion that should water this sorrow.disclaims most of the liability we could have to you if some-
influence of the most receiv'd star; and though the devil leaddiscover if the Cat in her change of shape had also altered her
ingenious, foolish, rascally knave. I do pity his distressdiscovered him, and some threw sticks at him and pelted him with
inter'gatories. Demand them singly.discovered the secret of the hidden treasure, and digging down,
into my mortal preparation; and by midnight look to hear furtherdiscovered to his grief that it contained so little water that he
is ever lost. 'Tis too cold a companion; away with't.discovered what had happened, but was less grieved for the death
is my friend; ergo, he that kisses my wife is my friend. If mendisgrace, a public notice to all men to avoid you as an ill
is no fettering of authority. I'll beat him, by my life, if I candisguise of fictitious characters, by clothing with speech the
is no fitter matter. How does your ladyship like it?dishes and, seizing him by his fore and hind paws, bundled him
is the prince of the world; let his nobility remain in's court. Idismiss them from your heels, there might soon be treaties of
is upon a file with the Duke's other letters in my tent.distance and said to her, "Think how many men there are who have
it is a heartbreaking to see a handsome man loose-wiv'd, so it isdistance several times, saw them both stretched on the ground
itself, which could not be her office to say is come, wasdistance what they thought was a large ship.  They waited in the
judgment in anything.distance, and asked him how he was.  "I am very middling,"
judgments, wherein so curiously he had set this counterfeit.distinguish one bird from the other.  By mistake he caught the
kernal in this light nut; the soul of this man is his clothes;distress.
knew of their going to bed; and of other motions, as promisingdistribute it is limited by the copyright and other laws, and by
know by his trumpets. Sirrah, inquire further after me; I haddistribution and either a Defect in the etext, or any alter-
knowing I had no such purpose? I must give myself some hurts, anddistrust him.
knowledge, that I may say in the default 'He is a man I know.'divert to himself the favor of the guests, proposed to stand up
knows; but 'tis a goodly patch of velvet. His left cheek is adivided among yourselves, you will be broken as easily as these
lascivious boy, who is a whale to virginity, and devours up alldivision? You are perfect to a fraction."  He replied, "I learned
laughter.do in your pride and self-conceit; for even though you have the
length apiece; by an abstract of success: I have congied with thedo me the favor of going around to the hollow trunk below me, and
let my horses be well look'd to, without any tricks.do not molest them."  "How is this?'  said the Hedgehog; "do you
let thy curtsies alone, they are scurvy ones.do not understand them, or do not agree to and accept them, then
life.do see very plainly every preparation for your dining on a bull."
like him that leapt into the custard; and out of it you'll rundo you hurt me so, Mistress? What weight can my blood add to the
linguist, and the amnipotent soldier.do you make so much noise? We bear all the labor, and we, not
little for pomp to enter. Some that humble themselves may; butdo, when you make such a fuss about a mere fall into the water?"
liv'd still, if knowledge could be set up against mortality.domain, a defective or damaged disk or other etext medium, a
looks ill, it eats drily; marry, 'tis a wither'd pear; it wasdone, and the army disciplined, and the herald Mouse had duly
lord. I'll have no more pity of his age than I would have of-door stretching himself.  He asked him sharply:  "Why do you stand
lordship anon.double death."
lordship's entertainment.doute il laissa la chose tres imparfaite.  Esope la perfectionne
losses!down and seized him.  The Nightingale, about to lose his life,
lost. That you were made of is metal to make virgins. Virginitydown for their future protection.  Jupiter granted their request
lustrous, a word, good metals: you shall find in the regiment ofdrank water, for as yet my mother's milk is both food and drink
maid hath been seduced by them; and the misery is, example, thatdressed himself up as a physician, and, taking his cane and a bag
maid is undone.drink first, and were soon engaged in the agonies of a mortal
make us friends; I will pursue the amitydrinking horn of the countryman.  The rustic, ignorant of his
makes a show'r of rain as well as Jove.drinking long before they reached the hides.
makes her story true even to the point of her death. Her deathdrowned.  With his last breath he said to himself, "I am rightly
man that had this trick of melancholy sold a goodly manor for adrowning.  A Dove sitting on a tree overhanging the water plucked
man.drudgery and ill-treatment.  War was again proclaimed, however,
marriage; for young Charbon the puritan and old Poysam thedull-head! it is not yet come to this, that men pay worship to an
married but his occasion here.during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the
married; but thou art too fine in thy evidence; therefore standeach other and were faint from the long combat, they lay down
marry me with Octavius Caesar, and companion me with my mistress.each other in the chase.  Having secured a large booty, the Lion
marvellous poor.earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian
may draw his heart out ere 'a pluck one.early.  When they had done this, they found that they had only
may know by their trumpets.earnest what he can do."
me this prayer, though thou deny me a matter of more weight; goodearnestly begged her to come lower down, lest she fall by some
me, he's more and more a cat.earnestly begged the Hawk to let him go, saying that he was not
me? The search, sir, was profitable; and much fool may you findearnestly beseeching the Farmer to spare his life.  "Pray save
meet him with any convenience, an he were double and double aearth itself, and when her father died, as there was no earth,
merry, but yet she is not well. But thanks be given, she's veryearth, wishes to uproot the oak, so she may on its fall seize our
might be found in the calendar of my past endeavours; for then weearth?'
mine; and writ to me this other day to turn him out o' th' band.earth?'
misdoubt. Pray you leave me. Stall this in your bosom; and Iearthenware and the other of brass.  The Earthen Pot said to the
mistress, and make much of her.eat after my toil, you wake up and wag your tail for food.  Do
monstrous matter of feast, which worthily deserved noting.eat and not even that without hard work.  But when war broke out,
more of this, Helena; go to, no more, lest it be rather thoughteat.  The Ass, on the contrary, had much work to do in grinding
more shall be paid her than she'll demand.eating I will give it you for the sake of my own superior
more than they can commend.eating the acorns inadvertently frayed and tore the cloak.  When
most absolute Alexas, where's the soothsayer that you prais'd soedge of the cliff as she possibly could, in the hope of securing
most courteous feathers, which bow the head and nod at every man.edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857.
most notable coward, an infinite and endless liar, an hourlyeditions of these fables, and was republished as late as 1727 by
mother. I could not have owed her a more rooted love.editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and
mothers; which is most infallible disobedience. He that hangseffecting my escape."  At the approach of the evening the herdsman
mouth; nay, as the pudding to his skin.effort, the man let him go and said, "Conquer, but conquer to
much love as she finds. There is more owing her than is paid; andeither Tale or Parable, it will ever keep in view, as its high
must do good against evil.                              Exiteither from fear of an excess of frankness, or from a love of fun
must produce for an interpreter.either starved by the one, or to have been overworked by the
my body; for they say bames are blessings.elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no
my daughter; you are no husband for her.electronically.
my wife's sake.else to do, she buried him in her own head.  Hence she obtained
nails now. Wherein have you played the knave with Fortune, thatembraced them both, and bestowing his kisses and affection
nation. Fare ye well, sir; I am for France too; we shall speak ofemergencies and fed him carefully with hay and corn.  But when
necessity hold his virtue to you, whose worthiness would stir iteminent degree, their own special features of craft or counsel,
neighbouring languages, therefore we must every one be a man ofempty sling, chased them away by the terror he inspired; but when
never shall come off, and show me a child begotten of thy bodyenchanted with the sound, that they tried to imitate it; and, in
nicer needs. The last was the greatest, but that I have not endedenchanted; and, desiring to possess the same charms of melody,
no fault with the tithe-woman, if I were the parson. One in ten,encouraging him to descend.  The Goat, mindful only of his
nor cap; and indeed such a fellow, to say precisely, were not forend of its tail.  After some time the Cottager, afraid that the
not for your lordship's respect.endeavored to do as they had done.  Having handled the net, he
not have knaves thrive long under her? There's a cardecue forendeavoring to pull him back.  When the Ass persisted in his
not me'? Indeed your 'O Lord, sir!' is very sequent to yourendowed one portion of it with the qualities which chiefly
not seem to understand him, unless some one among us, whom weenemy and I shall perish together."
not what. Yet I was in that credit with them at that time that Ienemy, saw a wagon heavily laden with wood, and went and
not worth another word, else I'd call you knave. I leave you.enemy.  A Bricklayer earnestly recommended bricks as affording
not yet.enemy.  He cried out to his captors, "Pray spare me, and do not
not; and our crimes would despair if they were not cherish'd byenemy?'  The Stag replied:  "Only allow me, friend, to stay where I
nothing, and to have nothing, is to be a great part of yourenjoy an empty honor and to assume the badge of your nobler sex,
o' th' contrary. If ever thou be'st bound in thy scarf andenjoy the good things he has to give?'  "Why," he replied, "I am
oaths; in breaking 'em he is stronger than Hercules. He will lie,enjoyment."
of Fortune's butt'ring. Prithee, allow the wind.enough to spoil the appetite."
of a most chaste renown; and this night he fleshes his will inensure his destruction.  He approached the Bull and said, "I have
of him admiringly and mourningly; he was skilful enough to haveentangled in the meshes of a cobweb and was eaten by a spider.
of his act.enter the habitations of men.  Hence it arises that Ills abound,
of his counsel.entered, and having had to complain that his oxen had not been
of his success in't, and to what metal this counterfeit lump ofentertained no anticipation of danger.  Some boatmen sailing by
of it.entertainment but some soup made of pulse, which was poured out
of nature to preserve virginity. Loss of virginity is rationalentertainment, said in the joy of his heart, "How glad I am that
of nature. To speak on the part of virginity is to accuse yourentirely in his charge.  The Wolf, now that he had the
of request. Virginity, like an old courtier, wears her cap out ofentreated him not to cut down the tree that sheltered them, but
of the King, who had even tun'd his bounty to sing happiness toenvious of the praises bestowed on the Monkey and desiring to
of the best that is. In a retreat he outruns any lackey: marry,equal enthusiasm, proposed timber as a preferable method of
of the maid; for I knew the young Count to be a dangerous andequal.  The Lions made this reply:  "Your words, O Hares! are
of this drum, being not ignorant of the impossibility, anderected in honor of my ancestors, who were in their day freedmen
of virgins, that would suffer her poor knight surpris'd withoutescape injury for your pains.
of.escape.  A Goat, overcome with thirst, came to the same well, and
of; therefore I will not speak what I know.etext under the "PROJECT GUTENBERG" trademark (whether electron-
offendress against nature. Virginity breeds mites, much like aetexts, is a "Public Domain" work distributed by Professor
office of God and the devil? One brings the in grace, and theeven if it had been only with those words, for I should have been
officer at a place there called Mile-end to instruct for theevening, I will give you a little sack full of barley."  The Ass
officer he is in those suggestions for the young earl. Beware ofevening, as he wandered through the suburbs with his whole
old.event, or to some individual acts of wrong-doing.  Thus, the
on your abode.ever, but I could not help my infirmities.  I rather deserve to
on's face; whether there be a scar under 't or no, the velvetevidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the
once out of it, it transmigrates.excited against what is low, ignoble, and unworthy.  The true
operation of your sun; so is your crocodile.exclaimed, "Do not cultivate the favor of this man, but of your
or the breaking of my Spanish sword.exclaimed, "O foolish creature that I am! For the sake of a
ore will be melted, if you give him not John Drum'sexclaimed, "O wretched me! that those whom I cheer with my fruit
organs. It lives by that which nourisheth it, and the elementsexclaimed, "that I should perish by an arrow feathered from my
other brings thee out.    [Trumpets sound]  The King's coming; Iexclaimed:  "You richly deserve your fate; for a bird of the air
other business.exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly
our virtues.exclusively to literature.  He published his Life of Aesop, Anno
ourselves to an unknown fear.excuse for eating him.  He accused him of being a nuisance to men
out his master's undoing. To say nothing, to do nothing, to knowexercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection
out in our latter times.exhausted with fatigue.  A Fox, who had gone round them at a
out of a pomegranate; you are a vagabond, and no true traveller;exhortations, he determined to give them a practical illustration
out of him. By his authority he remains here, which he thinks isexpect him to spare us?'
overlooking. I have those hopes of her good that her educationexperienced an equal longing for the contents of the game-bag.
papist, howsome'er their hearts are sever'd in religion, theirexpiring said, "Ah! you who so lately, when you supposed yourself
part, I only hear your son was run away.                Exitexposed.
pass. Yet the scarfs and the bannerets about thee did manifoldlyexpressed his willingness to accept the Lion as the suitor of his
persons to make modern and familiar things supernatural andexpressed their sorrow, and came one by one to his den, where the
pie and your porridge than in your cheek. And your virginity,extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus
pieces.extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much
pinch me like a pasty, I can say no more.exultingly with all his might.  An Eagle sailing through the air
pleaseth their deities to take the wife of a man from him, iteyes of their neighbors.
pleasure.eyes, and on every visit took something away, stealing all her
pleasure.fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the
point, to the full arming of the verity.fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library
practices he hath persecuted time with hope, and finds no otherfables of the "Eagle and the Fox" and of the "Fox and Monkey' are
presence must be the whip of the other.fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum,"[13] a book consisting of a
presently denied him rivality, would not let him partake in thefables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards,
prince as you are.fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but
promise-breaker, the owner of no one good quality worthy yourfabulist, therefore, discharges a most important function.  He is
promises; her dispositions she inherits, which makes fair giftsfacts, relating to the birth, life, and death of Aesop.  He is,
prophesy so.faggot, took the sticks separately, one by one, and again put
put off that with such contempt? But to the court!fail in the performance."
quean to a wrangling knave, as the nun's lip to the friar'sfailed to notice him.  The Stag, congratulating himself on his
question, hoping to be the wiser by your answer. I pray you, sir,fairness of her complexion! Oh, if her voice were only equal to
question. Man is enemy to virginity; how may we barricado itfall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to
questions?fallen into worse hands, and noting his master's occupation,
quoth 'a! An we might have a good woman born before every blazingfalling back through the meshes of the net into the sea.
rather, the herb of grace.falling into a swoon, the man said to himself, "Woe is me! that
read it in what-do-ye-call't here.familiarity and ill-breeding."
recover'd it.families as food for her young."  Having thus frightened the Eagle
recovered the King and undone me. I have wedded her, not beddedfanned the spark into a flame, and the eaglets, as yet unfledged
redeems him.farm-bailiff with several laborers passed through the shed and
remainder of nature. Let me live, sir, in a dungeon, i' th'farmyard when you know that you shake in your shoes if you only
remainders and a perpetual succession for it perpetually.farmyard.  One at last put the other to flight.  The vanquished
remembrance to this very instant disaster of his setting i' th'fast as I can."
report of it. Well, Diana, take heed of this French earl; thefast as they could to the mountains.  The Goatherd scolded them
reputation is with the Duke, what his valour, honesty, expertnessfate.  Mercury appeared and demanded the cause of his tears.
rescue in the first assault, or ransom afterward. This shefather's, which he saw in his sleep, I am shut up on your account
reservation of your wrongs. He is my good lord: whom I servefatigue, on the very brink of a deep well.  Just as he was about
respect-fatigue.
restrain'd yourself within the list of too cold an adieu. Be morefault, and even if you got it for free and from someone other
rogues, upon my reputation and credit, and as I hope to live.faults.  Hence it is that men are quick to see the faults of
sad a passage 'tis!-whose skill was almost as great as hisfavor was the proposal to tie a bell to the neck of the Cat, so
said; but more than that, he loved her-for indeed he was mad forfear as they fed alone, and feasted on them one by one at his own
sallets ere we light on such another herb.fears into the Sow, she went and pretended to hide herself in the
salvation, the inheritance of it; and cut th' entail from allfeast, I must leave you to enjoy it by yourself.  It is
say I got them in exploit. Yet slight ones will not carry it.feathered finery.  But when Jupiter proposed to make him king
says he has a stratagem for't. When your lordship sees the bottomfeathers, when the owner of the field, looking over his ripe
scurvy, old, filthy, scurvy lord! Well, I must be patient; therefeats he had performed in the different places he had visited.
secrets of your army, and made such pestiferous reports of menfed the one for his table and kept the other for the sake of its
seem to know, is to know straight our purpose: choughs' language,feeling no manner of inconvenience, made no further complaints.
seem very politic. But couch, ho! here he comes; to beguile twofeet and rushed helter-skelter to the deep water for safety.  On
seldom attributed to the true and exact performer, I would havefeliciter incipit."  The other is a larger work in two volumes,
servants so? Thou wert best set thy lower part where thy nosefell by accident and rose up again with his load considerably
servants to you!  [To HELENA]  Be comfortable to my mother, yourfell down dead under his burden.  Not knowing what else to do in
serve to naturalize thee, so thou wilt be capable of a courtier'sfell, and not being able to rise on account of his load, groaned
service; it was a disaster of war that Caesar himself could notfelling an oak and begged him to show him a safe hiding-place.
seventeen poniards are at thy bosom.fellow if you expect to get anything from me, who am accustomed
shall eat. Go to; follow.fellow who with the same breath blows hot and cold."
shall see this very night.females equaled them in dignity.  "Allow them," said Jupiter, "to
she had partaken of my flesh, and cost me the dearest groans of afew, but is now with all men."
she should scratch you, who of herself is a good lady and wouldfictitious personages introduced into it.  The narration should
shows to man the tailors of the earth; comforting therein thatfictitiously introduced, are marked.  While they are made to
sighs and tears; they are greater storms and tempests thanfiercely for its possession.  When they had fearfully lacerated
sing; ask questions and sing; pick his teeth and sing. I know afiercer renewal of the fight, they saw some Vultures waiting in
sir, with such volubility that you would think truth were a fool.fifty chickens.  The chickens will become ready for the market
slowness that I do not, for I know you lack not folly to commitfifty hours is one conservative estimate for how long it we take
snow from off their cassocks lest they shake themselves tofight yourself, your trumpet stirs all the others to battle."
so before, because I would not fall out with thee. Go thy ways;fight, so that they might be better marshaled in battle array and
so good a wife and so sweet a lady.figures  the beasts of the field and forest, and aimed at the
so seriously he does address himself unto?filching from their very altars a part of the sacrifice offered
so strongly as thou speak'st of. I will henceforth eat no fishfiles per month, thus upping our productivity to two million/hr.
so terrible shows in the wreck of maidenhood, cannot for all thatfiles per month:  thus upping our productivity from one million.
something to know it.find surety for your good faith, for how can I trust anyone as a
son will not be kill'd so soon as I thought he would.find that men are sure to impute their calamities to me, however
son. Fortune, she said, was no goddess, that had put suchfind you, when the day of payment comes?'
song.finding that the Hare also had run off, he said, "I am rightly
song. Would God would serve the world so all the year! We'd findfinger and caused great pain and inflammation, so that the young
soon mortal.first began to sprout, to pull it all up out of the ground and
spares my team, and gives me leave to in the crop. If I be hisfirst estate; but I have found thee for no purpose.  I would
speak in the behalf of my daughter; which, in the minority offirst let me ask you to hold my clothes, or I shall tear them to
speak truth of it. Here it is, and all that belongs to't. Ask mefirst tried his power and blew with all his might, but the keener
speed well in it, the Duke shall both speak of it and extend tofirst, and obtained, as on the preceding day, the applause and
spurs so long. How does he carry himself?first.  On seeing him the third time, he so increased in boldness
stands. By mine honour, if I were but two hours younger, I'd beatflank, and again biting him, retreated to his hole.  The Bull
star, or at an earthquake, 'twould mend the lottery well: a manflay a wolf alive and wrap his skin yet warm around you."  The
stocks all night, poor gallant knave.flew around with a great whir of his wings and settled upon a
stocks, or anywhere, so I may live.flew upon the sheep and killed them, and then attacked the oxen.
stocks. And what think you he hath confess'd?flies which you see are full of blood, and sting me but little,
stop up the displeasure he hath conceived against your son, thereflocks.  The Wolf, having shown himself an apt pupil, said to the
stratagem.fly with him, lest they should both be captured, but the animal
strong.' What say you to that?fold; the gate was closed, and the entrance made thoroughly
succeeding. My master!folly in thinking that everything round must be an egg."
sweet Isis, I beseech thee! And let her die too, and give him afondling her child and saying:  "You are quiet now, and if the
syllable of our worthiness.food, leaped upon him, and was instantly caught and squeezed to
talk of you last night. Though you are a fool and a knave, youfood, ought to pursue the larger birds.  The Hawk, interrupting
tame, and know their natures. Farewell, monsieur; I have spokenfood, painted himself white and joined them in order to share
tears! The great dignity that his valour hath here acquir'd forfood.  As he passed the door of a cottage built in the forest, he
than the love of the parties.fool, fell down on purpose when he reached the stream, but the
thank thee. Wait on me home, I'll make sport with thee;foot and obtained food for herself and her kittens, but feigning
thank you for your honest care. I will speak with you furtherfoot of the Mouse tightly to his own.  Thus joined together, the
that I am father to, then call me husband; but in such a "then" Ifoot, and was giving his whole mind to the discovery of the
that an honest man should not have; what an honest man shouldfor I know well when to go fast, and when to go slow."
that drum or another, or 'hic jacet.'for I should not have maltreated the Vine that saved me."
that had received so much shame, you might begin an impudentfor a list of books
that he will steal himself into a man's favour, and for a weekfor a list of books
that lascivious young boy the Count, have I run into this danger.for a long time were handed down by the uncertain channel of oral
that the muster-file, rotten and sound, upon my life, amounts notfor a long time, and at last said, "If you had treated a dog in
that's 'Before me th'art a knave.' This had been truth, sir.for he loved the race of man, but could not refuse the request
the Florentine?for help, until you have done your best to help yourself, or
the King's disease.for his life:  "Pray spare me; I am very serviceable to men.  I
the King's sake, he were living! I think it would be the death offor it by sending an explanatory note within that time to the
the Soldier? Come, bring forth this counterfeit module hasfor me to give the water to them than to you."
the Spinii one Captain Spurio, with his cicatrice, an emblem offor me, and am not able to find one."  "Take me," returned the
the court; but for me, I have an answer will serve all men.for men, who in return for your services flog you with whips and
the devil.for offense.  "I have reasons enough," said the Bull.  "I see no
the first in goodness, but greater a great deal in evil. Hefor safety, so much more perilous."
the fry it finds.for safety.  The Thief made off with the coat and did not return
the gallant militarist-that was his own phrase-that had the wholefor the "Right of Replacement or Refund" described below, the
the getting of children. Here they come will tell you more. For myfor the contest.  But one of them who was exceedingly old (for
the highest compulsion of base fear, offer to betray you andfor the fruit."  But said Minerva, "Let anyone say what he will
the least noise of this, dies instantly; I have seen her diefor the third time and brought up the axe that had been lost.
the less worth. Off with't while 'tis vendible; answer the timefor their ingratitude in leaving him, when during the storm he
the many will be too chill and tender: and they'll be for thefor them to lie on.  Those lazy fellows have not even swept the
the measure, such are to be followed. After them, and take a morefor they come not one by one, but in troops, and by no means
the night light with drinking.for whatever I should whiten, you would immediately blacken again
the recov'ry of the King, as to be-for your assistance against greater antagonists?'
the rich are damn'd; but if I may have your ladyship's good willfor your reading for education and entertainment.  HOWEVER, THIS
the spoil of her honour. He hath given her his monumental ring,for your wool, or your milk, but he lays hold on me for my very
the strength of their amity shall prove the immediate author offorgot their dancing and became (as indeed they were) Monkeys
the toothpick, which wear not now. Your date is better in yourforgotten; and it is at the commencement of the fourteenth
thee already.formed into troops, regiments, and battalions.  When all this was
thee away. Farewell. When thou hast leisure, say thy prayers;formed such very different expectations.  One of their company,
thee from thy master thou talk'st of; serve him still.former contents.  She greedily placed it several times to her
thee. Methink'st thou art a general offence, and every man shouldformer masters.  On bringing him home he resorted to every means
their amity: Octavia is of a holy, cold, and still conversation.former owner, lest he should again hunt for you and deprive you a
their variance. Antony will use his affection where it is; heforsaken even the man on whose head they grew."
them and have ability enough to make such knaveries yours.forsooth!
them both, his Majesty out of a self-gracious remembrance didforth and slaughtered the cattle, and, killing the Shepherds who
them whipt; or I would send them to th' Turk to make eunuchs of.forth below, apply if you wish to copy and distribute this etext
them, Diana: their promises, enticements, oaths, tokens, and allforth from his companions.  He pulled up his horse, and with
themselves upon thee.forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions
then.found a bed beneath in the hollow trunk.  When the morning
theoric of war in the knot of his scarf, and the practice in thefound a convenient hole, moved into the middle of the trunk; and
there commendations go with pity-they are virtues and traitorsfound himself surrounded by a whole army of Ants, near whose nest
there were no more women but Fulvia, then had you indeed a cut,found some Wild Goats mingled among them, and shut them up
there, whose villainous saffron would have made all the unbak'dfoundation of her house, so its inhabitants might more easily
thereabouts' set down, for I'll speak truth.foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the
therefore, once more to this Captain Dumain: you have answer'd tofour great feet came to the pool and crushed him to death with
these engines of lust, are not the things they go under; many afourteenth century.  His life was prefixed to all the early
thieves kissing.frankincense, and asked, "What is it?'  The young Mole said, "It
thing's may serve long, but not serve ever.free again in the forest, and the Shepherd to be pardoned and
think I shall never have the blessing of God till I have issue o'free copyright licenses, and every other sort of contribution
think of thee at court.freedman in the ancient republics of Greece, was the permission
this I am not certain.freedman, imitated many of these fables in Latin iambics about
thou diest in thine unthankfulness, and thine ignorance makesfrequent use the pleasure of your exchange, and each will again
thou good for nothing but taking up; and that thou'rt scarcefriend unexpectedly came in.  The bird-trap was quite empty, as
though you understand it not yourselves, no matter; for we mustfriend who is able to fly away from his bargain whenever he
thousand nothings with, should be once heard and thrice beaten.friend, it is not for the pasture that you invite me, but for
threatens them. I hope I need not to advise you further; but Ifriend," replied the other, "do not say 'I,' but 'We' have found
three kings in a forenoon, and widow them all. Let me have afriends, than to become the food of Crows or Vultures."
thy arms o' this fashion? Dost make hose of thy sleeves? Do otherfrighten him also, but the Fox no sooner heard the sound of his
time; there do muster true gait; eat, speak, and move, under thefrisking and fawning as well as he could.  He next tried to jump
title, which is within a very little of nothing.from Delphos which was to be the signal of his death, in turning
to ask you if gold will corrupt him to revolt.from a place of concealment, took an accurate aim and wounded him
to cast them away for nothing, though between them and a greatfrom a trellised vine.  She resorted to all her tricks to get at
to do that for me which I am aweary of. He that ears my landfrom counter to tail, and a man went along to groom me; and now I
to fifteen thousand poll; half of the which dare not shake thefrom him thou mayest learn what I myself shall be when I assail
to give to a nobleman! Look here he comes himself.from his danger, he forgot his promise.  Shortly afterwards,
to go to the world, Isbel the woman and I will do as we may.from man, only to throw myself into the mouth of a wild beast?'
to move in't, are the holes where eyes should be, which pitifullyfrom public view; the other lived in a gully containing little
to th' Queen? O that I knew this husband, which you say mustfrom the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera
to th' drink.from the failure of the means of living.
to their abhorr'd ends; so he that in this action contrivesfrom the farm.  He often lamented his own hard fate and
to tie their friendship together will be the very strangler offrom the hedgerow, the Town Mouse said to his friend, "You live
together. Our virtues would be proud if our faults whipt themfrom the physicians the means of healing you?'  The Lion commanded
tongue is too foolhardy; but my heart hath the fear of Marsfrom which an irremediable poison, the bird-
tongue.from word processing or hypertext software), so long as
tongue. Kerely-bonto, sir, betake thee to thy faith, forfrom you altogether:  there is no material for resistance equal to
too. In her they are the better for their simpleness; she derivesfruit.  For the sake of the nuts, the passers-by broke its
tott'ring in the balance that I could neither believe norftp mrcnext.cso.uiuc.edu
touch'd not any stranger sense. Her matter was, she loved yourftp mrcnext.cso.uiuc.edu
tragedians-to belie him I will not-and more of his soldier-shipfull of fine oats, which I have left untouched for you, as you
treaty.- You and I have known, sir.further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a
trial; which if-Lord have mercy on thee for a hen! So, my goodfurther information is included below.  We need your donations.
tricks, which are their own right by the law of nature.fury."
trust him not in matter of heavy consequence; I have kept of themgalloped about in a very extravagant manner, and said to himself:
twelve persons there. Is this true?galloped off.
twenty times upon far poorer moment. I do think there is mettlegave them his own attributes:  hence every man is in his youth
tyranny of her sorrows takes all livelihood from her cheek. Nogenerally prevailed, and the audience came rather to ridicule the
under Mars.generals bound their heads with straws, that they might be more
undermine you and blow you up.gentleness of the beast's temper, he summoned courage enough to
unkindness is to them; if they suffer our departure, death's thegently."  "That was just why it stung you," said his Mother.  "The
unlawful intents? We shall not then have his company to-night?germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct
up where it wanted, rather than lack it where there is suchget credit for it.
up; marry, in blowing him down again, with the breach yourselvesget him at night, when it was dark, and he was not able to
upon the river of Cydnus.get in on account of the ornaments on their heads, were all
use the carp as you may; for he looks like a poor, decayed,get or mget [to get files. . .set bin for zip files]
very good tailor.get or mget [to get files. . .set bin for zip files]
very goodly things. Without contradiction I have heard that.get out, and began to groan and lament his fate.  Another Fox
very nobly held, can serve the world for no honest use; thereforeget rid of the weight of the brush, which was a very great
very plausive invention that carries it. They begin to smoke me;give thy light in silence.  Know that not even the stars need to
virgin exclaim in; which I held my duty speedily to acquaint yougiven it.  He called them to his bedside and said, "My sons,
virgin.gives him the preference over all other mythologists.  His
virtue, which he hath not, he might at some great and trustygiving me the sovereignty of the sea, has quite denied me the
virtuous gentlewoman that ever nature had praise for creating. Ifgo and take a stone, and place it in the hole, and fancy that the
war, here on his sinister cheek; it was this very swordgo food ready in my hand, for the sake of pursuing birds which
ward, evermore in subjection.goal.  On the day appointed for the race the two started
wars with the women!gold in its inside, and in order to get the gold they killed it.
we bring him to our own tents. Be but your lordship present atgold is still lying there.  It will do you quite the same
wear the surplice of humility over the black gown of a big heart.good can I be to you, and how little am I worth? I am not yet
well, and wants nothing i' th' world; but yet she is not well.good friend, cease from this unseasonable boasting.  The larger
well-weighing sums of gold, to corrupt him to a revolt.' What saygood; but they lack both claws and teeth such as we have."
well?gown.  In this dress I will go to the Christmas parties, where
were no further danger known but the modesty which is so lost.gradually led him towards the pool in which he lived, until
what things are we!grapes.  A Goat, passing by, nibbled its young tendrils and its
when he number'd thirty; 'a will be here to-morrow, or I amgrave-hillock.
when his wife was dead, I blush to say it, he won me. Now is thegreat bulk of them are not the immediate work of Aesop.  Many are
when of ourselves we publish them.great glee joined in the joke by saying, "What a marvel it is
when old robes are worn out there are members to make new. Ifgreat mimics of men's actions, they showed themselves most apt
when thou hast none, remember thy friends. Get thee a goodgreat size.  Now he considered that it would be neither an easy
whence he was whipt for getting the shrieve's fool with child-agreater acceptance when the reader is led, unconsciously to
where he will.greater caution, "But suppose the water should fail us.  How can
where would you choose it?greatest number of whelps at a birth.  They rushed clamorously
whether one Captain Dumain be i' th' camp, a Frenchman; what hisgreatly alarmed and, rising from his seat, attempted to run away.
which holy undertaking with most austere sanctimony shegreen all the year round, the Fig-Tree changed its leaves with
which should, indeed, give us a further use to be made than alonegreeted them with this salutation:  "What sort of a king do I seem
whilst I have a tooth in my head. Why, he's able to lead her agrew angry, and could not bear the self-praises of her Brother,
whipping. You would answer very well to a whipping, if you weregrew proud of his bell and went tinkling it all over the
will not acknowledge it to be the-grief and learning the cause, said, "Pray do not grieve so; but
will return perfect courtier; in the which my instruction shallgrievously lamented the destruction of his sheep and oxen, but
will subscribe for thee. Farewell.groaning beneath his heavy burden, said to himself:  "I am treated
will tell true. Let me see: Spurio, a hundred and fifty;ground and limped away, howling dreadfully.  His yelling soon
will to his Egyptian dish again; then shall the sighs of Octaviaground, and all her imaginary schemes perished in a moment.
will.guard and drive off thieves with their stings.  But the Farmer
window of lattice, fare thee well; thy casement I need not open,guilty? You have not hesitated to entrust your heads to a man,
wings, and to rend our own soldiers!gullet-bag and lay down on the shore to die.  A Kite saw him and
wish'd me. Alone she was, and did communicate to herself her ownhabits of life, let down a mouse in the middle of the room.  The
with the divine forfeit of his soul upon oath, never trust myhad attacked him, raged with angry fury.  Then they who had
with you.had become accustomed.  A few days afterwards a heavy wagon
with't.had compassion on it, and taking it up, placed it in his bosom.
withal; sithence, in the loss that may happen, it concerns youhad done, said, "You silly creature! why have you hatched these
without any malice, but to speak of him as my kinsman, he's ahad enslaved himself to the service of man.
without you; especially that of Cleopatra's, which wholly dependshad married the gardener, and inquired how she was and how all
word.had not given up the rights of the ash, we might yet have
word.had not proceeded far when they met a Lion.  The Fox, seeing
words to her own ears; she thought, I dare vow for her, theyhad obtained what he desired.  The Peddler saw through his trick
work, which not to have been blest withal would have discreditedhad reached the goal, and was comfortably dozing after her
worse! And let worse follow worse, till the worst of all followhad recently occupied.  As soon as he entered, a He-Goat left in
worth.had taken a large catch.  When they had dragged the nets to the
would make themselves whores but they'ld do't!had taken as many beasts as their necessities required, the Lion
wound our modesty, and make foul the clearness of our deservings,had taken more care of them than of his own herd.  One of them,
write a "never."hairless, ill-featured young Monkey as a candidate for the
yet hie you to Egypt again.hammering on the anvil, you sleep on the mat; and when I begin to
yet.hand with having had before him a copy of Babrias (to whom we
you affect a sorrow than to have-handle for his axe.  The Trees consented to his request and gave
you are more saucy with lords and honourable personages than thehandling and mine are very different things.  He catches you only
you did bring me out.handling of his net to retain all the large fish and to draw them
you have him ever after.handsome in shape, and powerful in attack.  I have jaws well
you hear him so confidently undertake to do.happened shortly after this that the Lion was caught by some hunters,
you into a butterwoman's mouth, and buy myself another ofharbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred
you may, when you hear no more words of Pompey, return it again.hard, so that he could not take the herd to their usual feeding
you must die. Come, headsman, of with his head.hardly keep pace by the side of you?'  The good-natured Miller
you there.                                Exit with SOLDIERShart@vmd.cso.uiuc.edu (internet)   hart@uiucvmd   (bitnet)
you to this? What do you know of it?harvest; but the Farmer reaped nothing that year and returned
you what further becomes his greatness, even to the utmosthas been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall
you writ to Diana in behalf of the Count Rousillon? An I were nothas no business to seek its food from the sea."
you, is he married to Cleopatra?hastened away as fast as he could run.  A neighbor saw him
you, since I heard of the good lady's death, and that my lordhastened to his den with rapid steps.  After a few days he came
you. Let the justices make you and Fortune friends; I am forhave been only an ass."
you; you have a new mistress.have experienced with what speed you run away, know right well
your Isbels o' th' court. The brains of my Cupid's knock'd out;have given you all the attributes which I possess myself, and
your departure hence, it requires haste of your lordship.have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off
your lordship to remain with me tal they meet together.have suffered an eclipse, to have disappeared and to have been
your mystery in stratagem can bring this instrument of honourhave you at a birth?'  The Lioness laughed at them, and said:
your old virginity, is like one of our French wither'd pears: ithave your request, but it will be at the peril of your own life.
your son was upon his return home, I moved the King my master tohaving been permitted to draw out your head in safety from the
your travel.Enter CAESAR, AGRIPPA, DOLABELLA, THYREUS, with others
having his whole thoughts directed towards the sky.  While thus'I hate' she altered with an end,
he climbed up into the tree and shook them down.  The Sheep'Tis better to be vile than vile esteemed,
he collected as many stones as he could carry and dropped them'Will', will fulfil the treasure of thy love,
he did it to warm his hands because they were so cold.  Later onA CLOWN
he found a tame Partridge for sale.  He purchased it and broughtA PAGE, Servant to the Countess of Rousillon
he had caught nothing, and he had to kill a pied Partridge, whichA SOOTHSAYER
he had enjoyed his supper.  He replied, "Why, to tell you theA WIDOW OF FLORENCE.
he had fled to her for assistance, she had used him worse thanA bliss in proof and proved, a very woe,
he had no knowledge of medicine, and was only made famous by theA dateless lively heat still to endure,
he had not placed the heart of man on the outside, that everyoneA maid of Dian's this advantage found,
he had tamed for a decoy.  The bird entreated earnestly for hisA thousand groans but thinking on thy face,
he is found in Corinth, and at another in Athens, endeavouring,A torment thrice three-fold thus to be crossed:
he is single, parches up the marsh, and compels us to dieAGRIPPA,       "    "   "
he met a friend, a Fuller, and entreated him to come and liveAGRIPPA. 'Tis a noble Lepidus.
he said that he did it to cool the meat, which was too hot.  "IAGRIPPA. Both he loves.
he said, "this shows what sort of judges you are."AGRIPPA. Caesar, I shall.                                 Exit
he should try out the animal before he bought him.  He took theAGRIPPA. Give me leave, Caesar.
he visited the different petty republics of Greece.  At one timeAGRIPPA. Good Enobarbus!
he was driven forth from the light of day, and henceforthAGRIPPA. Good fortune, worthy soldier, and farewell.
he was standing.  One of them climbed up and stung him, and heAGRIPPA. Indeed, he plied them both with excellent praises.
he would live only upon dew, and in a short time died of hunger.AGRIPPA. Let us go.
he you."  "Anything to please you," said the old man; "we can butAGRIPPA. Nay, but how dearly he adores Mark Antony!
head! Yet it is of no value, as it entirely lacks brains."AGRIPPA. O, Antony! O thou Arabian bird!
healed her and demanded the promised payment.  The Old Woman,AGRIPPA. O, rare for Antony!
healed.  I on the contrary affirm that I am still blind; for whenAGRIPPA. Rare Egyptian!
healing, when my father only taught me the trade of a butcher?'AGRIPPA. Retire. We have engag'd ourselves too far.
hear his roar at a distance?'AGRIPPA. Royal wench!
heard a Mother say to her child, "Be quiet, or I will throw youAGRIPPA. Sir, Mark Antony
hearing this the Lion groaned and lamented very much and,AGRIPPA. Sir, this should be answer'd.
heaven, and said:  "Just now I vowed to offer a lamb to theAGRIPPA. There she appear'd indeed! Or my reporter devis'd well for
heavier loads to carry and harder work in the brick-field, heAGRIPPA. Thou hast a sister by the mother's side,
heavily.  Some Frogs frequenting the pool heard his lamentation,AGRIPPA. To hold you in perpetual amity,
heels.  The expiring Lion said, "I have reluctantly brooked theAGRIPPA. Welcome, lady.
heels."  The Ass held his peace, and made only a silent appeal toAGRIPPA. What's Antony? The god of Jupiter.
help me now and scold me afterwards."AGRIPPA. What, are the brothers parted?
help them.  They replied, "We would willingly have helped you, ifAGRIPPA. Who does he accuse?
henceforth with undisputed mastery.AGRIPPA. Who, queasy with his insolence
her beauty, she would deservedly be considered the Queen ofAGRIPPA. [Aside to ENOBARBUS] He has a cloud in's face.
her cave.  And thus they both, along with their families,AGRIPPA. [Aside to ENOBARBUS] Why, Enobarbus,
her cheese, lets fall, as it were by accident, the strongestALEXAS,   attendant on Cleopatra
her crest, which is popularly said to be her father'sALEXAS. 'Good friend,' quoth he
her greater safety.  She turned her sound eye towards the landALEXAS. Ay, madam, twenty several messengers.
her in the air.  "I will give you," she said, "all the riches ofALEXAS. Good Majesty,
her shell to pieces.  The Tortoise exclaimed in the moment ofALEXAS. Half afeard to come.
her to pieces.  "Woe is me," exclaimed the Doe, "who have escapedALEXAS. Here, at your service. My lord approaches.
her voice, eagerly flew up.  The Owl came forth from her hollow,ALEXAS. Last thing he did, dear Queen,
her whelp.  A wild-boar Hunter, seeing her distress, stood at aALEXAS. Like to the time o' th' year between the extremes
her wings by the blow, she fell to the ground, and was caught byALEXAS. Lo now, if it lay in their hands to make me a cuckold, they
her, and she again commended him.  The Youth, advanced toALEXAS. Nay, hear him.
here the life of the ants, while in my house is the horn ofALEXAS. Show him your hand.
herself, but used the shears so unskillfully that with the fleeceALEXAS. Soothsayer!
hid themselves.  At last the Country Mouse, almost famished, saidALEXAS. Sovereign of Egypt, hail!
hidden.  The huntsman took no notice of the signs, but believingALEXAS. Vex not his prescience; be attentive.
him a visit and partake of his country fare.  As they were on theALEXAS. We'll know all our fortunes.
him a young ash-tree.  No sooner had the man fitted a new handleALEXAS. You think none but your sheets are privy to your wishes.
him for breaking his promise, he turned around and cried out,ALL. Alas, and woe!
him home at night, gave him to his children.  On their saying,ALL. Cargo, cargo, cargo, villianda par corbo, cargo.
him horns, but even deprived him of a portion of his ears.ALL. Fly? Not we!
him immediately to tell him the cure, when he replied, "You mustALL. Good morrow, General.
him on account of his color.  expelled him from living with them.ALL. Most heavy day!
him said:  "A fine Lion you are, to be frightened of a Mouse."ALL. Show's the way, sir.
him several slices of meat in order to pacify the Housedog, soALL. That's our offer.
him the capture of the Ass if the Lion would pledge his word notALL. The music, ho!
him to be a man (whom he is always said to befriend), came andALL. We understand it, and thank heaven for you.
him to come and live with him, saying that he would enjoy greaterANTONY. 'Tis said, man; and farewell.
him while on shipboard.  As he sailed off the coast of Greece, aANTONY. 'Tis so. And the tears of it are wet.
him, "Why did you not treasure up food during the summer?'  HeANTONY. 'Tis spoken well.
him, and tore him to pieces.ANTONY. 'Tis well blown, lads.
him, said with a smile, "You should have moved your master not toANTONY. A good rebuke,
him, said:  "I should indeed have lost my senses if I should letANTONY. Against my brother Lucius?
him, with a request that he would feel it, and say what it was.ANTONY. Ah, let be, let be! Thou art
him.ANTONY. Alack, our terrene moon
him.  The Stag immediately took to flight, and exerting hisANTONY. All is lost!
himself easily at a safe distance from the Lion.  But entering aANTONY. And fair words to them.
himself in a shed among the oxen.  An Ox gave him this kindlyANTONY. And shall, sir. Give's your hand.
himself of a serious illness, the Governor of the town determinedANTONY. And thou art honest too.
himself the right to be considered the father of Greek fables,ANTONY. Antony, thou wouldst say.
himself upon the Lion and stung him on the nostrils and the partsANTONY. Approach there.- Ah, you kite!- Now, gods and devils!
himself with the Goat's horns, he safely reached the mouth of theANTONY. Art thou there, Diomed? Draw thy sword and give me
himself, a Lion appeared at the pool and crouched to spring uponANTONY. Ay, Lepidus.
himself, and by a wily stratagem succeeded.  "How handsome is theANTONY. Be a child o' th' time.
himself, bristled up with pride, gave himself airs, and refusedANTONY. Bear him ashore. I'll pledge it for him, Pompey.
himself, to have his sympathies enlisted in behalf of what isANTONY. Bear me, good friends, where Cleopatra bides;
himself.  He ran to the river and threw his axe on purpose intoANTONY. But stirr'd by Cleopatra.
himself:  "Woe is me! How I have deceived myself! These feet whichANTONY. But that your royalty
his Horse, but at the same time stole his oats and sold them forANTONY. By sea, by sea.
his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," areANTONY. Can he be there in person? 'Tis impossible-
his blasts, the closer the Traveler wrapped his cloak around him,ANTONY. Cleopatra-
his breath, and feigned the appearance of death as much as heANTONY. Cold-hearted toward me?
his cloak, and demanded that it should be shaken out.  When thatANTONY. Come, let's all take hands,
his cloven heel."  The Frog, puffing herself out, inquired, "ifANTONY. Come, sir, come;
his complaining.  On learning what had happened, he said to him,ANTONY. Come, then; for with a wound I must be cur'd.
his crafty foe and said, "Ah! you that lie there, may you prosperANTONY. Cried he? and begg'd 'a pardon?
his deliverer, for seeing the Peasant sitting under a wall whichANTONY. Dead then?
his den, Mistress Wolf inquired of him why he returned weariedANTONY. Dead.
his door.  The Thief sat down beside him and talked with him.  AsANTONY. Do so, we'll speak to them; and to-night I'll force
his good looks, the latter for her extraordinary ugliness.  WhileANTONY. Egypt, thou knew'st too well
his guard against him, as against an enemy, and kept a strictANTONY. Eros! mine armour, Eros!
his hand, he was prevented from doing so by the neck of theANTONY. Eros,
his heart and saw in that single glance that its feathers hadANTONY. Eros, thou yet behold'st me?
his history.  Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up inANTONY. Fall not a tear, I say; one of them rates
his household.  The storm still continuing, he was obliged toANTONY. Farewell!                       Trumpets sound. Exeunt
his lair.  A Lion met him in the path, and seizing the lamb, tookANTONY. Favours, by Jove that thunders!
his lair.  Being in want of food, he called to a Sheep who wasANTONY. Fie, wrangling queen!
his lime-twigs for the Dove, which sat in the branches.  The Ant,ANTONY. For that he dares us to't.
his metals the Dog slept; but when, on the other hand, he went toANTONY. Forbear me.                             Exit MESSENGER
his mistake, his Mother placed before him a few grains ofANTONY. From Sicyon, ho, the news! Speak there!
his monastery.  He took an active part in public affairs.  InANTONY. Fulvia is dead.
his mouth, saw his own shadow in the water and took it for thatANTONY. Fulvia is dead.
his neck asked him who it was that fed him so well and yetANTONY. Gentle Octavia,
his neck so that the Dog might give notice of his presenceANTONY. Get thee gone.
his neighbors' faults, and a large bag behind filled with his ownANTONY. Go, Eros, send his treasure after; do it;
his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students inANTONY. Good night, sir. My Octavia,
his oats, gave the Ox an abundance of hay, and fed the Dog withANTONY. Grates me the sum.
his own profit.  "Alas!"  said the Horse, "if you really wish meANTONY. Hark! the land bids me tread no more upon't;
his own ugliness, searched through the woods and fields, andANTONY. He has deserv'd it, were it carbuncled
his own, because the stream swept it away.ANTONY. He will not fight with me, Domitius?
his path.ANTONY. Hear me, queen:
his present service and provided with another master.  Jupiter,ANTONY. Hence, saucy eunuch; peace!
his properties, came upon a Mask, an admirable imitation of aANTONY. Her tongue will not obey her heart, nor can
his skin arose from dirt contracted through the neglect of hisANTONY. Ho, ho, ho!
his slumbers.  He rose up and shook himself in great wrath, andANTONY. How intend you- practis'd?
his tail as if to say, "I am a suppliant, and seek your aid."  TheANTONY. How now, lady!
his teeth, and cut off his claws, as his daughter was fearfullyANTONY. How, my love?
his time while in prison, awaiting the return of the sacred shipANTONY. I am dying, Egypt, dying; only
his tyranny.ANTONY. I am not married, Caesar. Let me hear
his wife, who had been a spectator to all that took place, said,ANTONY. I am satisfied.
his wing, and, seizing the drinking horn in his talons, carriedANTONY. I am sorry to give breathing to my purpose-
his wont, was seen by a Hawk who, being in need of food, swoopedANTONY. I did not think to draw my sword 'gainst Pompey;
his word, hastened forward in the chase.  As soon as they wereANTONY. I found you as a morsel cold upon
his.  When the Workman said it was not, he dived into the poolANTONY. I have done my work ill, friends. O, make an end
hit upon this expedient to rid himself of his importunities.  HeANTONY. I have fled myself, and have instructed cowards
hold of a Bramble to save himself.  Having pricked and grievouslyANTONY. I have heard it, Pompey,
holes.  The Cat was no longer able to get at them and perceivedANTONY. I have offended reputation-
hollow of the tree.  When night came she went forth with silentANTONY. I learn you take things ill which are not so,
home grieving sorely.ANTONY. I must be gone.
home lay across a stream into which his Ass, making a false step,ANTONY. I must with haste from hence.
home on a visit to her father.  After a short time she returned,ANTONY. I will be treble-sinew'd, hearted, breath'd,
home.  As they went along they chanced to pass a deep well, amplyANTONY. I will reward thee
honey that they could not use their wings, nor releaseANTONY. I would they'd fight i' th' fire or i' th' air;
honeycomb, he threw down his axe, and looking on the tree asANTONY. I'll fight at sea.
honor, I reaped no benefits:  but now that I maltreat you I amANTONY. I'll leave you, lady.
hope of seeing it enter the harbor, but as the object on whichANTONY. If that thy father live, let him repent
hope that the figs would ripen.  A Fox seeing him sitting so longANTONY. If we compose well here, to Parthia.
horns.  The Lioness came up, and bitterly lamented the death ofANTONY. If you can- your reason.
horseback who begged the hare of him, under the pretense ofANTONY. Is he gone?
hour he found that instead of obtaining revenge on the Stag, heANTONY. Is it not strange, Canidius,
house, related to his companions all that had happened.  One ofANTONY. Is that his answer?
house, would give him nothing.  The Physician insisted on hisANTONY. It is shap'd, sir, like itself, and it is as broad as it
house.  However when the summer returned again, he lay asleepANTONY. It ripens towards it. Strike the vessels, ho!
household.  Wishing to find out if she had the same effect on theANTONY. Let Rome in Tiber melt, and the wide arch
hovering near an altar, on which some villagers were sacrificingANTONY. Let her know't.
however it reached the beach, they discovered that it was only aANTONY. Let him appear.
however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject.ANTONY. Let him that loves me, strike me dead.
human blood, I wish that I could have killed you even if I hadANTONY. Let us go. Come.
human conduct, and yet it so conceals its design under theANTONY. Let us, Lepidus,
human head.  He placed his paws on it and said, "What a beautifulANTONY. Lo thee!                            [Turning from him]
hundred hours is a conservative estimate for how long it we takeANTONY. Make me not offended
hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini,ANTONY. May I never
hungry ate him up.  Just as he was on the point of being eaten,ANTONY. Mine nightingale,
huntsmen and hounds.ANTONY. Moon and stars!
huntsmen, attracted by the rustling of the leaves, looked back,ANTONY. Most sweet queen-
hysical medium (such as a disk), you must return the physicalANTONY. My being in Egypt, Caesar,
iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having aANTONY. My good knave Eros, now thy captain is
ically, or by disk, book or any other medium), you will:ANTONY. My precious queen, forbear,
idleness, because you were presently to be sacrificed."ANTONY. Nay, good my fellows, do not please sharp fate
if he could only discover the thief who had stolen the Calf, heANTONY. Nay, nay, Octavia, not only that-
if he should beget other suns?'ANTONY. Neglected, rather;
if he would ask for a share of his meal.  His master one day,ANTONY. No further, sir.
if you now should crop my leaves, and cut me down to my root, IANTONY. No more light answers. Let our officers
if you touch me ever so slightly, I shall be broken in pieces,ANTONY. No, my chuck. Eros! Come, mine armour, Eros!
if, according to my custom, I tell the truth?'  The Ape quicklyANTONY. No, no, no, no, no.
ill, but to good, will."ANTONY. No;
image down from its pedestal and dashed it against the wall.ANTONY. Not so, not so;
immediately appeared in answer to his summons and asked for whatANTONY. Now I must
immediately clutched the Fox, and attacked the Ass at hisANTONY. Now, Eros.
immediately let go of his own, and fiercely attacked the otherANTONY. Now, by my sword-
immediately took up his son behind him.  They had now almostANTONY. Now, my dearest queen-
immediately trampled them all to death with his foot.  MercuryANTONY. Now, sirrah, you do wish yourself in Egypt?
imminent danger, approached the Lion and promised to contrive forANTONY. O, fie, fie, fie!
impartially on each, said, "I wish you both would look into theANTONY. O, quick, or I am gone.
impetuous, headstrong, and obstinate in maintaining his ownANTONY. O, whither hast thou led me, Egypt? See
implied warranties or the exclusion or limitation of consequen-ANTONY. Of it own colour too.
in a river.  Not being able to reach them, they agreed to drinkANTONY. Our overplus of shipping will we burn,
in an intentional travestie of human affairs.  The 'ainos,' asANTONY. Peace!
in body, but in mind."ANTONY. Quarrel no more, but be prepar'd to know
in common and could not live together, but were engaged inANTONY. Rarely, rarely!
in her beak.  A Fox, seeing this, longed to possess the meatANTONY. Say to me,
in his den.  A Mouse ran over his mane and ears and woke him fromANTONY. Set we our squadrons on yon side o' th' hill,
in his stomach, he said, "I deserve all this torment, for myANTONY. She is cunning past man's thought.
in his turn and dance for their amusement.  He moved about in soANTONY. She's dead, my Queen.
in his wanderings.  At last coming upon a Fox, he tried toANTONY. Since Cleopatra died,
in keeping me from being swept under by paper mail as follows:ANTONY. Sir,
in machine readable form.  The Project gratefully acceptsANTONY. Sit, sir.
in need of immediate help, and he is wont to give his good giftsANTONY. So is the fame.
in ridicule of pompous pretenders; and his Crow, when she dropsANTONY. So much uncurbable, her garboils, Caesar,
in size.  The splendor of the emerald shines in your neck and youANTONY. Sometime we see a cloud that's dragonish;
in style and rules of grammar, by making for themselves new andANTONY. Speak this no more.
in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learnedANTONY. Speak to me home; mince not the general tongue;
in the chase:  and the third share (believe me) will be a sourceANTONY. Tend me to-night;
in the company of the sheep and did not make the slightest effortANTONY. Thank you.
in the day they sat down to eat, and the food prepared was quiteANTONY. That which is now a horse, even with a thought
in the first week of the next month.  Since our ftp program hasANTONY. That will I, Pompey.
in the history of the origin and descent of these fables.  TheANTONY. The April's in her eyes. It is love's spring,
in the hollow of an oak, crept into the hole and made a heartyANTONY. The Queen shall then have courtesy, so she
in the hope that the fish, attracted by his melody, would ofANTONY. The beds i' th' East are soft; and thanks to you,
in the middle of the night.ANTONY. The business she hath broached in the state
in the present day, by general consent, as unworthy of theANTONY. The gods best know-
in the presentation of The Complete Works of William ShakespeareANTONY. The world and my great office will sometimes
in the summertime.  A Grasshopper, perishing with famine, passedANTONY. Their preparation is to-day by sea;
in the water.  The Frog, one day intent on mischief, bound theANTONY. Then let it do at once
in these and in later times.  The rhetoricians and philosophersANTONY. Then must thou needs find out new heaven, new earth.
in this palace as if I had been a girl:  what shall I now do toANTONY. There's beggary in the love that can be reckon'd.
in which he was warned that his son would be killed by a lion.ANTONY. These quicksands, Lepidus,
in which much blood was shed.  The Weasels were always theANTONY. They are so.
in, from which he died not many days later.ANTONY. They do retire.
inaccurate or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright orANTONY. Thou art a soldier only. Speak no more.
incidents now generally accepted by scholars as establishedANTONY. Thou bleed'st apace.
including legal fees, and [2] YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLI-ANTONY. Thou canst not fear us, Pompey, with thy sails;
including this Small Print statement.  Such copies can beANTONY. Thrice nobler than myself!
inconvenience.  One of them interrupting him said, "If you hadANTONY. To flatter Caesar, would you mingle eyes
incurred a heavier penalty."ANTONY. To him again. Tell him he wears the rose
indeed, sir, sadly deceiving yourself; you are indulging a hopeANTONY. To let a fellow that will take rewards,
indication whatever of your having slaughtered a sheep, while IANTONY. To-morrow, soldier,
indignation, set upon him with clubs and drove him out of theANTONY. Too late, good Diomed. Call my guard, I prithee.
induced them to plow its waters, it grew rough and destroyedANTONY. Tug him away. Being whipt,
indulging in these proud thoughts, a Lion fell upon him andANTONY. Unarm, Eros; the long day's task is done,
inflicted a mortal bite on the Cottager's infant son.  GrievingANTONY. Vanish, or I shall give thee thy deserving
informed him of the difficulty they were both in and suggested aANTONY. We have beat him to his camp. Run one before
ing it, you can receive a refund of the money (if any) you paidANTONY. We will yet do well.
inhabitants of those cities to the administration of theirANTONY. Well said; come on.
injuries done him by Lycambes.  So also the fables of theANTONY. Well, my good fellows, wait on me to-night.
injuring you.ANTONY. Well, well- away.
injury?'  The Bald Man replied, "I can easily make peace withANTONY. Well, well;
inquired of the Bull if he would like him to go.  The BullANTONY. Well, what worst?
inquired the cause of his lameness.  The Ass replied that passingANTONY. What is his strength by land?
inquired what was the matter and why his ears moved with such aANTONY. What power is in Agrippa,
instantly."  The Dog, wagging his tail, replied:  "O, master! I amANTONY. What say'st thou?
instead of a sheep, and killed him instantly.ANTONY. What's the matter?
instead of actors.  Pulling off their masks and tearing theirANTONY. When I did make thee free, swor'st thou not then
instruction, and will necessarily seek to inculcate some moralANTONY. When did she send thee?
instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, onANTONY. When it appears to you where this begins,
insults of the brave, but to be compelled to endure suchANTONY. When it concerns the fool or coward. On!
intended; for you now see that there are creatures who are stillANTONY. Where died she?
intentions.ANTONY. Where is she?
interpreting all he said (and how could she do otherwise?) intoANTONY. Where lies he?
interrupted them, saying:  "I have already two oxen, who, withoutANTONY. Which do not be entreated to, but weigh
intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, theANTONY. Who's gone this morning?
into a broad flat stone dish.  The soup fell out of the long billANTONY. Why should he not?
into the Scazonic[17] iambics, in which Babrias is known to haveANTONY. Will Caesar speak?
into the presence of the Lioness and demanded of her theANTONY. With the health that Pompey gives him, else he is a very
into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days,ANTONY. Would I had never seen her!
into the snares of death."ANTONY. Would thou and those thy scars had once prevail'd
into three shares.  "I will take the first share," he said,ANTONY. Yes, my lord, yes. He at Philippi kept
introduction of the animals or fictitious characters should beANTONY. Yet they are not join'd. Where yond pine does stand
invite a stranger Dog, a friend of his, saying, "My master givesANTONY. You do mistake your business; my brother never
irritated at the escape of his prey, injected his poison into theANTONY. You have been a boggler ever.
is a pebble."  His Mother exclaimed:  "My son, I am afraid that youANTONY. You have heard much.
is copyright protected, and since the materials and methods youANTONY. You shall not find,
is interesting and important, not only as the parent source orANTONY. You wrong this presence; therefore speak no more.
is it that when we flow into your tides so potable and sweet, youANTONY. You'll heat my blood; no more.
is often snappish, irritable, hard to please, and selfish,ANTONY. [To CAESAR] Thus do they, sir: they take the flow o' th'
is presented in cooperation with World Library, Inc., from theirAccuse me thus, that I have scanted all,
is thy remarkable swiftness of foot? Why were your feet so slow?"Against strange maladies a sovereign cure:
is true.  I have the advantages you mention, but when I hear evenAlthough I swear it to my self alone.
is true.  You are a capital bird at telling the time of day.  ButAlthough she knows my days are past the best,
isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by JohnAm of my self, all-tyrant, for thy sake?
it again, and said:  "Boast no more, but henceforth be content toAmong a number one is reckoned none.
it aloft.And 'Will' to boot, and 'Will' in over-plus,
it at all.And I a tyrant have no leisure taken
it at once as an offering to his benefactor.  A Fox, seeing this,And I my self am mortgaged to thy will,
it enticed men with the calmness of its looks, but when it hadAnd age in love, loves not to have years told.
it foreboded, when one of them said to his companion, "Let usAnd all my honest faith in thee is lost.
it from him.  Standing at a safe distance, the Wolf exclaimed,And beauty slandered with a bastard shame,
it from the Ass, by witnessing his fate."And brought to medicine a healthful state
it home to be reared with his Gamecocks.  When the Partridge wasAnd for that sorrow, which I then did feel,
it home to his Mother.  She not only abstained from beating him,And frantic-mad with evermore unrest,
it may be on, and but for the "Right of Replacement or Refund"And given to time your own dear-purchased right,
it on fire.  The Fox by a strange fatality rushed to the fieldsAnd grew a seeting bath which yet men prove,
it to the person from whom you received it describing suchAnd his love-kindling fire did quickly steep
it, and fitting his twigs to a proper length, watched intently,And in abundance addeth to his store,
it, and, pouncing upon it with his talons, carried it aloft.  TheAnd in my madness might speak ill of thee,
it, gave himself a heavy slap.  Escaping, the Fly said mockingly,And in my will no fair acceptance shine?
it, till the Ass, not liking the noise nor the strange handlingAnd in some perfumes is there more delight,
it:  "What a lovely flower is the Rose, a favorite alike with GodsAnd let that pine to aggravate thy store;
its name denotes, is an admonition, or rather a reproof veiled,And my next self thou harder hast engrossed,
its own Feathers," by Aeschylus;[5] the "Fox avenging his wrongsAnd on just proof surmise, accumulate,
j'aimerais mieux attribuer la gloire de l'invention; mais sansAnd play the mother's part, kiss me, be kind.
ject Gutenberg Association / Illinois Benedictine College".And rather make them born to our desire,
journey, and feeling very wearied, he exclaimed in a disconsolateAnd ruined love when it is built anew
judgment for my crimes, or for any other cause; but this I doAnd sealed false bonds of love as oft as mine,
jumping from a lofty precipice into a deep lake below.  As theyAnd sick of welfare found a kind of meetness,
just as any other Ass would.  The Lapdog knew many tricks and wasAnd situation with those dancing chips,
just in the same proportion as you are what you pretend to be!"And so the general of hot desire,
justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to theAnd soon to you, as you to me then tendered
kill me, who will announce to you the appearance of the dawn?And sue a friend, came debtor for my sake,
killed him.  He exclaimed with a too late repentance, "WretchedAnd suit thy pity like in every part.
killed the Goat, and so healed the Ass.And swear that brightness doth not grace the day?
kindly helped him in the hour of need.  One of them againAnd take thou my oblation, poor but free,
kinds of life-sized animals, among which was the picture of aAnd taught it thus anew to greet:
king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued theAnd the just pleasure lost, which is so deemed,
king, commanded them to be seized and brought before him, that heAnd therefore from my face she turns my foes,
knavery, not only took away the golden axe, but refused toAnd thither hied a sad distempered guest.
knew that way long before you were born."And thou shalt find it merits not reproving,
knocked at the door and inquired of the inmates how they all did,And to be sure that is not false I swear,
know how I got out of the house."And to enlighten thee gave eyes to blindness,
know, that when I yawn for the third time, I actually turn into aAnd truly not the morning sun of heaven
knowledge and deemed her to be the wisest of birds.  Hence it isAnd wherefore say not I that I am old?
knowledge he is a Daw; but he would like you to think an Eagle."And whether that my angel be turned fiend,
knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a fullAnd will thy soul knows is admitted there,
known adage, bearing witness to the truth that deeds of wrongAnd would corrupt my saint to be a devil:
labor with my companions, and not wish to be idle all the dayAngry that his prescriptions are not kept
labor, and resolute to amass wealth and to husband his resources.Applying fears to hopes, and hopes to fears,
labor, resolved to kill the cock who roused their mistress soAs I by yours, y'have passed a hell of time,
lacerated or destroyed the whole flock.As his triumphant prize, proud of this pride,
lack of discipline.  They therefore chose as leaders Mice thatAs subject to time's love or to time's hate,
laid to your roots."As testy sick men when their deaths be near,
lamenting when too late the destruction of his companions, saidAs those two mourning eyes become thy face:
land not far from Athens, he asked the Monkey if he were anAs those whose beauties proudly make them cruel;
land, and after all to find this seashore, to which I had comeAs thou goest onwards still will pluck thee back,
language purposely intended to convey a hidden and secretAs to prevent our maladies unseen,
large faggot of sticks, and one of them said to his companions,At my abuses, reckon up their own,
large misfortunes.At random from the truth vainly expressed.
large ram, with the intention of carrying him off, but his clawsAt such who not born fair no beauty lack,
large sum of gold for distribution among the citizens, he was soAt the wood's boldness by thee blushing stand.
large sum, to put her head into his mouth and draw out the bone.Ay, fill it full with wills, and my will one,
last he was caught in the very act, and having his hands boundBERTRAM, Count of Rousillon
last of all, brought a dainty piece of cheese from a basket.  TheBERTRAM.  [Aside to PAROLLES]  Is she gone to the King?
last one day he broke his cords and halter, and galloped into hisBERTRAM. A heaven on earth I have won by wooing thee.
laughed aloud and said, "It may be all as you say, I only knowBERTRAM. A plague upon him! muffled! He can say nothing of me.
lay violent hands on him, but to find some plea to justify to theBERTRAM. A pox on him! he's a cat still.
lazily replied, "Why should I, pray? Do you think it likely theBERTRAM. Admiringly, my liege. At first
leaders of armies."  The Ape and all his court, gratified with theBERTRAM. All's one to him. What a past-saving slave is this!
leaped to such a distance that no man of his day could leapBERTRAM. Although before the solemn priest I have sworn,
learn whom he has attacked."  On this, he who had fought with theBERTRAM. And I in going, madam, weep o'er my father's death anew;
learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary,BERTRAM. And I will do so.
learned the cause of his grief, plunged into the stream andBERTRAM. And by other warranted testimony.
learned.BERTRAM. And so 'tis.
learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influenceBERTRAM. Both, both; o, pardon!
learning, and amidst the splendors of an Asiatic court, that weBERTRAM. But I con him no thanks for't in the nature he delivers it.
least in the eyes of me his mother, the dearest, handsomest, andBERTRAM. But follows it, my lord, to bring me down
leave me without a word of thanks."  The Fox replied, "Indeed, IBERTRAM. But you must not now slumber in it.
leaves behind in the very vessel which contained it so sweet aBERTRAM. Change it, change it;
leaves of a Vine.  The huntsmen, in their haste, overshot theBERTRAM. Come, come, no more of that.
leaves, the snow fell through to the ground, and did not injureBERTRAM. Damnable both-sides rogue!
leaves.  The Vine addressed him and said:  "Why do you thus injureBERTRAM. Do you think I am so far deceived in him?
led them all out to feed, and the Wild Goats scampered away asBERTRAM. For this description of thine honesty? A pox upon him! For
led to a disgraceful death."BERTRAM. Go with me to my chamber and advise me.
left the Hare to follow him.  The Hare, scared by the noise,BERTRAM. Good morrow, noble Captain.
left to himself the smallest possible morsel.  The Lion said,BERTRAM. He shall be whipt through the army with this rhyme in's
left? But I shall not have to wait long for my just revenge; forBERTRAM. Here, take my ring;
legends, and gross anachronisms, that it is now universallyBERTRAM. Hers it was not.
leisure.BERTRAM. His good remembrance, sir,
leisure.BERTRAM. How have I sworn!
length of time it had lain about the fields.  "Is this," said theBERTRAM. How now, monsieur! This drum sticks sorely in your
lesson-book, I should not have come to this, nor have been thusBERTRAM. I am commanded here and kept a coil with
let you know what is the respective strength of a Goat and aBERTRAM. I cannot love her, nor will strive to do 't.
lie, commanded that a handsome present be given to the flatterer.BERTRAM. I could endure anything before but a cat, and now he's a
life is still in peril."  At that moment the master himselfBERTRAM. I do assure you, my lord, he is very great in knowledge,
life with stones, and those who gave me foodBERTRAM. I grow to you, and our parting is a tortur'd body.
life.BERTRAM. I have it not.
life."BERTRAM. I have to-night dispatch'd sixteen businesses, a month's
life:  "What would you do without me when next you spread yourBERTRAM. I have writ my letters, casketed my treasure,
lifting up the load, you may place it again upon my shoulders."BERTRAM. I heard not of it before.
light of wing, fled away at his approach; while the Geese, beingBERTRAM. I know th' art valiant; and, to the of thy soldiership,
lighted a fire, and warmed them.  He let the Horse make free withBERTRAM. I mean the business is not ended, as fearing to hear of it
lighter, as the water melted the sack.  The Peddler retraced hisBERTRAM. I pray you, stay not, but in haste to horse.
like that useless little Lapdog!"BERTRAM. I shall obey his will.
like us in so many things, not be entirely of one mind with us,BERTRAM. I shall stay here the forehorse to a smock,
likewise inquired of her how she fared; she replied, "I want forBERTRAM. I take her hand.
limb should excite your pity.  Besides, I am no Crane, I am aBERTRAM. I think she has. Certain it is I lik'd her,
lime, would be extracted and by which they would be captured.BERTRAM. I think so.
lion.  When the young Prince saw this, his grief at being thusBERTRAM. I would I knew in what particular action to try him.
listened favorably to these proposals, and, entering the den ofBERTRAM. I'll lend it thee, my dear, but have no power
listened to his words, and falling into a ditch, was very muchBERTRAM. If she, my liege, can make me know this clearly,
literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek ofBERTRAM. If you shall prove
little matter now.  will by and by confer on me a greaterBERTRAM. Is there any unkindness between my lord and you, monsieur?
little ones, for the man is in earnest this time; he no longerBERTRAM. It is an honour 'longing to our house,
little pleasant food I have deprived myself of my life."BERTRAM. It may be you have mistaken him, my lord.
live near each other.  The Eagle built her nest in the branchesBERTRAM. It might, but it is not now.
lived.  Thus, the fable of the "Hawk and the Nightingale" isBERTRAM. It shall be so; I'll send her to my house,
living, and took up residence in the lakes and pools.  ButBERTRAM. Let that go.
loaded him with the loudest applause.  A Countryman in the crowd,BERTRAM. Madam, I desire your holy wishes.
loaded with an abundance of riches."BERTRAM. May I be bold to acquaint his Grace you are gone about it?
login:  anonymousBERTRAM. My gracious sovereign,
login:  anonymousBERTRAM. My high-repented blames,
long conversations conducted by fictitious characters under theBERTRAM. My lord, I do confess the ring was hers.
longer hearing the hour from the cock, woke them up to their workBERTRAM. My lord, I neither can nor will deny
look at the file size will have to do, but we will try to see aBERTRAM. My lord, this is a fond and desp'rate creature
look together into a mirror that was placed on their mother'sBERTRAM. My thanks and duty are your Majesty's.
looking upon the Sea, loaded it with reproaches.  He argued thatBERTRAM. My wife, my liege! I shall beseech your Highness,
looking upwards, he unknowingly trod upon a Viper asleep justBERTRAM. Nay, by your leave, hold your hands; though I know his
looks of aversion."  He said, "O Wife, if you were disliked byBERTRAM. No matter; his heels have deserv'd it, in usurping his
loud cries to Hercules to come and help him.  Hercules, it isBERTRAM. No more o'that!
loved and well cared for by men, and they often pat my head andBERTRAM. Nothing of me, has 'a?
luxurious, the wrathful, &c.  None of the stories are preciselyBERTRAM. Now will I lead you to the house, and show you
made a great stir, and the theater was crowded in every part.BERTRAM. O my Parolles, they have married me!
made a trial of him, he answered, "I do not need a trial; I knowBERTRAM. Our interpreter does it well.
made her way into it and began to catch and eat them one by one.BERTRAM. Pardon, my gracious lord; for I submit
made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the yearBERTRAM. She never saw it.
made use of that which belonged only to girls.  The fatherBERTRAM. She's impudent, my lord,
made, the Physician, time after time, applied his salve to herBERTRAM. She's none of mine, my lord.
make loud lamentations.  A neighbor, seeing him overcome withBERTRAM. Sir, it is
make me provide the meat also."BERTRAM. So should you be.
make me useful to him."BERTRAM. Some six months since, my lord.
make the acquaintance of the owner of so magnificent a voice.BERTRAM. Stay; the King!
make themselves ridiculous.BERTRAM. Thank your Majesty.                 Exeunt [Flourish]
make you a present of the hare."BERTRAM. That's all the fault. I spoke with her but once,
making any promises, do all these things.  It is surely betterBERTRAM. The best wishes that can be forg'd in your thoughts be
making wedges of its own branches for dividing the trunk.  TheBERTRAM. There's letters from my mother; what th' import is I know
man hearing this, quickly made his son mount the Ass, andBERTRAM. They told me that your name was Fontibell.
man is no longer content to scare us, but begins to show us inBERTRAM. This very day,
man whom he murdered.  On his reaching the river Nile he saw aBERTRAM. Titled goddess;
man, vexed and ashamed, made the best of his way home again,BERTRAM. Undone, and forfeited to cares for ever!
manage to pass.  "Save yourself the trouble," said the Bull; "IBERTRAM. Well, we cannot greatly condemn our success.
mannered dog."BERTRAM. Well, what would you say?
many a field had he plowed) thus spoke:  "These Butchers, it isBERTRAM. What is it, my good lord, the King languishes of?
many a trap and snare, observed from a safe distance the trick ofBERTRAM. What of him?
many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolvedBERTRAM. What shall be done to him?
many stories are interwoven on all kinds of subjects.  It has noBERTRAM. What would you have?
marked with an unexceptionable care and attention to theirBERTRAM. Where are my other men, monsieur?
marketplace.  One day an old hound said to him:  Why do you makeBERTRAM. Why, do you think he will make no deed at all of this that
marks of his footsteps or knew where his lair was.  "I will,"BERTRAM. Why, if you have a stomach, to't, monsieur. If you think
master's house, kicking up his heels without measure, andBERTRAM. Will she away to-night?
master, "You must now go to the war on foot, for you haveBERTRAM. Yes, I do know him well; and common speech
master, and his constant companion.  While he hammered away atBERTRAM. Yes, my good lord;
master, permit me to live and I will entice many Partridges toBERTRAM. Yes, my lord, and of very valiant approof.
maxim, social duty, or political truth.  The true Fable, if itBERTRAM. You are deceiv'd, my lord; she never saw it.
may be on may contain errors and defects (collectively, theBERTRAM. Your brother, he shall go along with me.
me back with the reins.  Away, therefore, with your insolence,BOTH. Sir, good success!
me in an instant; but if you want my fleece and wool, there isBe anchored in the bay where all men ride,
me without a cause, and crop my leaves? Is there no young grassBe it lawful I love thee as thou lov'st those,
me! this overestimation of myself is the cause of myBe wise as thou art cruel, do not press
me, Master," he said, "and let me go free this once.  My brokenBefore a joy proposed behind a dream.
me, and I have only one wish, that there may be a heavy fall ofBeshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
me, who am myself always accustomed to fasten upon others."Better becomes the grey cheeks of the east,
me."Beyond all date even to eternity.
meal-bag, we will not come near you."Book both my wilfulness and errors down,
meal.  The File replied, "You must indeed be a simple-mindedBreathed forth the sound that said 'I hate',
meal.  When he finished, he was so full that he was not able toBring me within the level of your frown,
meaning other than that contained in the words themselves; andBut 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
meaning, and that not so much by the use of language, as by theBut all alone stands hugely politic,
means of warning themselves of the approach of their great enemyBut at my mistress' eye Love's brand new-fired,
meat from his own table.  Grateful for these favors, the animalsBut bears it out even to the edge of doom:
mediaeval scholars.  There are two celebrated works which mightBut being both from me both to each friend,
medium with your request and retain no copies of it.But if thou catch thy hope turn back to me:
medium, you must return it with your note, and such person mayBut is profaned, if not lives in disgrace.
member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle,[19]But mutual render, only me for thee.
members and agents harmless from all liability, cost and ex-But my five wits, nor my five senses can
men had sown, as it was a plant which boded no good to them.But no such roses see I in her cheeks,
mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at theBut now is black beauty's successive heir,
mercilessly feed on their flesh and drink their blood withoutBut rising at thy name doth point out thee,
merry guise, to convey instruction.  Phaedrus, the great imitatorBut shoot not at me in your wakened hate:
might be dried."  He said to her, "If your sister wishes for rain,But slave to slavery my sweet'st friend must be?
might beat the lion.  But one of the tree's prickles pierced hisBut then my friend's heart let my poor heart bail,
might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits.But thou art twice forsworn to me love swearing,
might know what was said of him among men.  He ordered at theBut thou wilt not, nor he will not be free,
might no longer be associated with the Ills, as they had nothingBut when she saw my woeful state,
might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities ofBut wherefore says she not she is unjust?
might read the thoughts of the evil disposed and take precautionsBut why of two oaths' breach do I accuse thee,
mill instead of going out to battle.  But when he was compelledBuy terms divine in selling hours of dross;
million dollars per hour this year we, will have to do four textBy their rank thoughts, my deeds must not be shown
million dollars per hour; next year we will have to do four textCAESAR. 'Tis done already, and messenger gone.
mind, and unite to assist each other, you will be as this faggot,CAESAR. About the Mount Misenum.
mine ever be in such a plight; for the weight of this chain isCAESAR. Adieu; be happy!
minster Abbey, 1485.[10]  It must be mentioned also that theCAESAR. And what may follow,
mirror every day:  you, my son, that you may not spoil your beautyCAESAR. Antony,
mischief."CAESAR. Approach, and speak.
miserably in our arid homes.  What will be our future conditionCAESAR. Be't so. Declare thine office.
misfortunes, and admitted by Augustus to the honors of aCAESAR. Bring him through the bands.           Exit EUPHRONIUS
misfortunes.  The other replied, "I am indeed glad that I wasCAESAR. But being charg'd, we will be still by land,
mishap; and he added that the meadows lay where he was standing,CAESAR. Caesar; and that, having in Sicily
modes of conveying instruction.  Each is distinguished by its ownCAESAR. Contemning Rome, he has done all this and more
modification, or addition to the etext, or [C] any Defect.CAESAR. Doubt not, sir;
moment he yawned the third time and set up a terrible howl.  TheCAESAR. Farewell, farewell!                   [Kisses OCTAVIA]
moment think of shutting up a Lion along with you in yourCAESAR. Farewell, my dearest sister, fare thee well.
money, and sent it back to his master.  The Delphians, enraged atCAESAR. For Antony,
more hungry will come in their place, and will drink up all theCAESAR. Go charge Agrippa
more timid than ourselves."CAESAR. Go forth, Agrippa, and begin the fight.
more."CAESAR. Good night.                  Exeunt CAESAR and OCTAVIA
morning, at cockcrow.  The maidens, aggravated by such excessiveCAESAR. Great and increasing; but by sea
mortally.  The Eagle gave one look at the arrow that had enteredCAESAR. He calls me boy, and chides as he had power
mortals.  For this purpose he assumed the character of a man andCAESAR. I could well forbear't.
most beautiful of all."CAESAR. I do not know, Maecenas. Ask Agrippa.
most imitative of animals, descended from the treetop andCAESAR. I do not much dislike the matter, but
most positive proof the greatness of their mistake.  "Look here,"CAESAR. I have eyes upon him,
most ungrateful creatures! You provide wool to make garments forCAESAR. I have said.
mould, and conformed to the same fashion, and stamped with theCAESAR. I must be laugh'd at
mourn, but at once invoke the gods that my life may beCAESAR. I should have known no less.
mouth and blew in it.  When the Satyr again inquired the reason,CAESAR. I wrote to you
mouth and galloped away.  The Wolf, being thus fearfully mauled,CAESAR. I' th' common show-place, where they exercise.
mouth and jaws of a wolf."CAESAR. Let him appear that's come from Antony.
mouth than he became a laughingstock to all who heard him.  TheCAESAR. Let his shames quickly
mouth, and eyes, when too late, repented of their folly.CAESAR. Let our best heads
much by their own folly they have really brought them onCAESAR. Most certain. Sister, welcome. Pray you
much to answer for.  They always bark whenever we approach youCAESAR. Most meet
must be attacked, fell flat on the ground, and when the Bear cameCAESAR. Nay, then.                                  [They sit]
must die in their company."CAESAR. No more than my residing here at Rome
my Mother in her ear."  She came close to him, and he quicklyCAESAR. No, my most wronged sister: Cleopatra
my friend and I must have our dinners."CAESAR. No, sweet Octavia,
my mouth, you will be greatly mistaken.  This sudden kindness atCAESAR. Nor must not then be yielded to in this.
myself from this spider, the most inconsiderable of insects!"CAESAR. Not till he hears how Antony is touch'd
myself in drinking some nectar which Pallas lately gave me.  IfCAESAR. Observe how Antony becomes his flaw,
myself, because I know there was no intention to hurt.  But you,CAESAR. Possess it, I'll make answer.
myself, if I had not heard your bray."CAESAR. Say not so, Agrippa.
narration of a story either founded on facts, or created solelyCAESAR. Since I saw you last
narrative, that wise choice in the introduction of the animals,CAESAR. Sit.
narrative; it will seek, like the Parable, to convey a hiddenCAESAR. Speak, Agrippa.
natural attributes, and to the qualities attributed to them byCAESAR. Strike not by land; keep whole; provoke not battle
natural instincts, bit its benefactor, inflicting on him a mortalCAESAR. Take your time.
natural way.  On the morrow a still larger crowd assembled in theCAESAR. Taurus!
naturally flows, and with which it is intimately associated.CAESAR. That ever I should call thee cast-away!
nature as calm and firm even as this earth; but the windsCAESAR. That's the next to do.
nature the enemy of all birds.  The Bat assured him that he wasCAESAR. The people knows it, and have now receiv'd
necessities.CAESAR. The power of Caesar, and
neither a narrator, nor an allegorist.  He is a great teacher, aCAESAR. The time of universal peace is near.
nest from its hole in the wall ate up the young unfledgedCAESAR. There is my hand.
nestlings.  The Swallow, finding her nest empty, lamented greatlyCAESAR. There's the point.
nets? Who would chirp you to sleep, or call for you the covey ofCAESAR. Till which encounter
never have indulged your ears at the cost of your belly."CAESAR. To lend me arms and aid when I requir'd them,
new copy has at least one byte more or less.CAESAR. Welcome hither.
next find honors paid to the name and memory of Aesop.  MaximusCAESAR. Welcome to Rome.
next time you touch a Nettle, grasp it boldly, and it will beCAESAR. What would you more? Pompey, good night. Good brother,
no long distance, when the Lion, turning about, seized him andCAESAR. What, Octavia?
no purpose the burden of life, as of all the trees that grow weCAESAR. Which soon he granted,
no unnecessary pain.  If we get rid of them, we shall fall intoCAESAR. Why have you stol'n upon us thus? You come not
nobody, and lost his Ass in the bargain.CAESAR. Will this description satisfy him?
none but those who work are entitled to eat?'CAESAR. With most gladness;
nook, and flying down, greedily seized him.  The Serpent, turningCAESAR. You are too indulgent. Let's grant it is not
nor a necessary work to make himself such a house as wouldCAESAR. You have broken
nor are you stronger than I am.  For in what does your strengthCAESAR. You may be pleas'd to catch at mine intent
nose, and drawing it backwards and forwards said, "O mostCAESAR. You may see, Lepidus, and henceforth know,
not I, he would have taken thee up, and have set thee in thyCAESAR. You praise yourself
not a bird, but a mouse, and thus was set free.  ShortlyCAESAR. You take from me a great part of myself;
not allow it to grow.  She said acorns would produce mistletoe,CANIDIUS, Lieutenant-General to Antony
not be grievous to me, if I could only see my Enemy die beforeCANIDIUS. Ay, and to wage this battle at Pharsalia,
not have thought so," said the other, "by the way you load him.CANIDIUS. Marcus Octavius, Marcus Justeius,
not known.  He sold a drug, pretending that it was an antidote toCANIDIUS. Our fortune on the sea is out of breath,
not make the slightest use of it."CANIDIUS. Soldier, thou art; but his whole action grows
not retain his hold because of the decay of his teeth, so thatCANIDIUS. To Caesar will I render
not want to be rid of them?'  "No," returned the Fox, "for theseCANIDIUS. Toward Peloponnesus are they fled.
not yourself lost your tail, my friend, you would not thusCANIDIUS. Well I know the man.
notes, and an Essay on Fable. Birmingham, 1864.  P.  60.CANIDIUS. Who's his lieutenant, hear you?
nothing at all; while I am everywhere used for roofs and houses."CANIDIUS. Why will my lord do so?
nothing but lies, were traveling together and by chance came toCANIDIUS. With news the time's with labour and throes forth
nothing, and have only one wish, that the dry weather mayCAPTAIN. The morn is fair. Good morrow, General.
notice that there are many prints of feet entering your cave, butCENTURION. Enobarbus?
number of Cranes, which came to pick up his seed.  With them heCENTURION. If we be not reliev'd within this hour,
number.  The remaining birds at once forsook his fields, cryingCENTURION. Let's hear him, for the things he speaks
nurtured and reared in spite of the neglect to which it wasCENTURION. Swoons rather; for so bad a prayer as his
oak, Venus the myrtle, Apollo the laurel, Cybele the pine, andCENTURION. The hand of death hath raught him.
observed that the Elephant shook his ears very often, and heCHARMIAN, lady attending on Cleopatra
observing all that has passed, said, "So help me, Hercules, heCHARMIAN. 'Twas merry when
obtained from ancient authors prior to the time in which heCHARMIAN. A proper man.
occasionally incorporated with the editions of Phaedrus.CHARMIAN. Amen.
of Aesop, plainly indicates this double purpose to be the trueCHARMIAN. Be comforted, dear madam.
of Antioch, A.D. 315, wrote a treatise on, and converted intoCHARMIAN. By your most gracious pardon,
of Aristophanes, line 808.CHARMIAN. Do? Why, what else?
of Athens).  Supposing that a man was meant, the Monkey answeredCHARMIAN. E'en as the o'erflowing Nilus presageth famine.
of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.[12]  TheCHARMIAN. Excellent.
of Jerusalem, but of a considerably later origin, and existingCHARMIAN. Good madam, keep yourself within yourself:
of a benefactor who bestowed wealth and helped to heap up riches.CHARMIAN. Good now, some excellent fortune! Let me be married to
of a sudden by the cries of the enemy.  He appealed to the Ass toCHARMIAN. Good your Highness, patience.
of a tall tree, while the Fox crept into the underwood and thereCHARMIAN. Good, sir, give me good fortune.
of another Dog, with a piece of meat double his own in size.  HeCHARMIAN. Hath he seen majesty? Isis else defend,
of cleaning, and subjected the man to incessant scrubbings.  TheCHARMIAN. He is afear'd to come.
of cowardice or courage, of generosity or rapacity.CHARMIAN. He means in flesh.
of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasuresCHARMIAN. Hush!
of fortune and called to mind his former state, saying, "Ah!CHARMIAN. I did not see him since.
of good omen and always attracted the attention of men, who notedCHARMIAN. I had rather heat my liver with drinking.
of great evil to you, unless you willingly resign it to me, andCHARMIAN. I warrant you, madam.                         Exeunt
of her son.  She resolutely said, "I know not whether JupiterCHARMIAN. In each thing give him way; cross him in nothing.
of her young than for her inability to avenge them.  A justCHARMIAN. Is this the man? Is't you, sir, that know things?
of his flock rather than as a plotter of evil against it; andCHARMIAN. Like her? O Isis! 'tis impossible.
of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor.CHARMIAN. Lord Alexas, sweet Alexas, most anything Alexas, almost
of his livelihood, he sat down on the bank and lamented his hardCHARMIAN. Madam!
of incomplete, inaccurate or corrupt data, transcription errors,CHARMIAN. Madam, I trust, not so.
of instruments becoming his profession, went to call on them.  HeCHARMIAN. Madam, methinks, if you did love him dearly,
of it.  The Monkey approached carelessly and was caught in theCHARMIAN. Madam?
of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which hasCHARMIAN. Many times, madam.
of mutton for their dinner.  Approaching them, he said, "What aCHARMIAN. My arm is sore; best play with Mardian.
of sinking, the one in the stern inquired of the pilot which ofCHARMIAN. Nay, come, tell Iras hers.
of some terrible calamity, out came a Mouse.CHARMIAN. Nay, if an oily palm be not a fruitful prognostication, I
of song.  But having heard the neigh of the horse, they were soCHARMIAN. No, madam.
of stealing something which should enable him to pay hisCHARMIAN. Not he; the Queen.
of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters ofCHARMIAN. Nothing, madam.
of that monster."CHARMIAN. O that brave Caesar!
of the Crane at every mouthful, and his vexation at not beingCHARMIAN. O, excellent! I love long life better than figs.
of the Farmer who had captured him.  It was the time of the wheatCHARMIAN. Our worser thoughts heavens mend! Alexas- come, his
of the animals deserved the most credit for producing theCHARMIAN. Out, fool! I forgive thee for a witch.
of the evils of disunion; and for this purpose he one day toldCHARMIAN. Please you retire to your chamber?
of the face devoid of hair.  While trying to crush him, the LionCHARMIAN. Pray, then, foresee me one.
of the field came again a few days later and saw the wheatCHARMIAN. Tempt him not so too far; I wish, forbear;
of the flock.  When the Shepherd returned to find his flockCHARMIAN. The valiant Caesar!
of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  ThisCHARMIAN. Then belike my children shall have no names.
of the sheep, and, without saying a word, quietly took hisCHARMIAN. Three in Egypt
of the strong."  And after the Hare said this, he ran for hisCHARMIAN. To th'monument!
of the waves, and suggested that they contract an alliance,CHARMIAN. Well, if you were but an inch of fortune better than I,
of the year 2001.CHARMIAN. Why, madam?
of their master.CHARMIAN. Wrinkles forbid!
of throwing himself over, his owner seized him by the tail,CHARMIAN. You think of him too much.
of to reach the water, but all his efforts were in vain.  At lastCLEOPATRA, Queen of Egypt
of which the crew and passengers were all drowned.  He inveighedCLEOPATRA. 'Tis sweating labour
of wind blew off his hat and wig, at which a loud laugh rangCLEOPATRA. Ah, dear, if I be so,
of yawning and again howled like a wolf, as he had at first.  TheCLEOPATRA. Ah, stand by!
of yore, for it is the common lot of mortals to sustain the upsCLEOPATRA. And target. Still he mends;
of your ancestors will be able to contradict you."CLEOPATRA. And when good will is show'd, though't come too short,
off as fast as he could.  The Hunter ran after him, as if he wasCLEOPATRA. Antony's dead! If thou say so, villain,
office of the writer of fables.CLEOPATRA. As well a woman with an eunuch play'd
often pondered how she might obtain two eggs daily instead ofCLEOPATRA. Be chok'd with such another emphasis!
often releases Etexts that are NOT placed in the Public Domain!!CLEOPATRA. Bear'st thou her face in mind? Is't long or round?
old age in these days? Do you see that idle lad riding while hisCLEOPATRA. By Isis, I will give thee bloody teeth
old father has to walk? Get down, you young scapegrace, and letCLEOPATRA. By sea! What else?
old man, was equally zealous in removing every gray hair sheCLEOPATRA. Caesar's will?
omnia. Amsterdam. 1709.CLEOPATRA. Call all his noble captains to my lord.
on all the fables in this collection.  Many of them lack thatCLEOPATRA. Celerity is never more admir'd
on her Brother, and spitefully accused him of having, as a boy,CLEOPATRA. Charmian!
on her.  She was in the habit of waking them early in theCLEOPATRA. Courteous lord, one word.
on purpose in the same spot, and, regaining his feet with theCLEOPATRA. Cut my lace, Charmian, come!
on seeing this, charged his sling with stones, and killed a greatCLEOPATRA. Didst hear her speak? Is she shrill-tongu'd or low?
on the Eagle," by Archilochus.[6]  Many of them again are of laterCLEOPATRA. Didst thou behold Octavia?
on the fruits of my exertions."  The Housedog replied, "Do notCLEOPATRA. Excellent falsehood!
on the land, when by my nature and habits I am only adapted forCLEOPATRA. For the most part, too, they are foolish that are so.
on the surface, tied to the foot of the Frog.  A Hawk observedCLEOPATRA. For what good turn?
on their return from the forest asked the Ass to allot his dueCLEOPATRA. Give me some music- music, moody food
on these fables,[11] by causing the interpolation with them ofCLEOPATRA. Go on. Right royal!
on this subject, and produced further proofs from internalCLEOPATRA. Go to, go to.
once made up their quarrel, saying, "It is better for us to makeCLEOPATRA. Good my lord-
one by one with his beak into the pitcher, until he brought theCLEOPATRA. Guess at her years, I prithee.
one criminal perchance sailing in the ship allow so many innocentCLEOPATRA. Ha, ha!
one fled away; the other stood his ground and defended himselfCLEOPATRA. Have you done yet?
one he had lost.  On his saying that it was not his, MercuryCLEOPATRA. He is a god, and knows
one of her sons, inquired of his brothers what had become of him.CLEOPATRA. He is married?
one of my imputations."  The tyrant will always find a pretext forCLEOPATRA. He was dispos'd to mirth; but on the sudden
one of the bystanders.CLEOPATRA. He's very knowing;
one that was most idle and the greatest eater of them all.CLEOPATRA. Hear the ambassadors.
one, and at last, to gain her purpose, determined to give the HenCLEOPATRA. Help me away, dear Charmian; I shall fall.
only I am in search of, not the Lion himself."CLEOPATRA. Help me, my women. O, he is more mad
only in Latin.  It is divided into four books, and consists ofCLEOPATRA. Here's sport indeed! How heavy weighs my lord!
only secure my own escape from him in safety."CLEOPATRA. How much unlike art thou Mark Antony!
only served as a harbor for the sparrows and grasshoppers.  HeCLEOPATRA. I am paid for't now. Lead me from hence,
only to be looked for that we, who just now were over-rejoiced,CLEOPATRA. I am pale, Charmian.
only to serve the turn of a Fox."CLEOPATRA. I am sick and sullen.
opened the door, and they both ran off squeaking, as fast as theyCLEOPATRA. I dare not, dear.
opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be theCLEOPATRA. I do not like 'but yet.' It does allay
opinion.  The Ox took under his patronage the next term of life,CLEOPATRA. I have a mind to strike thee ere thou speak'st.
opportunity, fell upon the sheep, and destroyed the greater partCLEOPATRA. I have one thing more to ask him yet, good Charmian.
opposition.  Dr. Bentley[18] met with an able antagonist in aCLEOPATRA. I have sixty sails, Caesar none better.
or cd etext/articles [get suggest gut for more information]CLEOPATRA. I know by that same eye there's some good news.
or cd etext/articles [get suggest gut for more information]CLEOPATRA. I must stay his time.
or cd etext92CLEOPATRA. I think so, Charmian. Dull of tongue and dwarfish!
or cd etext92 [for new books]  [now also cd etext/etext92]CLEOPATRA. I will be even with thee, doubt it not.
or cd etext93 [for new books]  [now also in cd etext/etext93]CLEOPATRA. I will not hurt him.
or codes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment.  ButCLEOPATRA. I would I had thy inches. Thou shouldst know
or hound, and her injured eye towards the sea, from whence sheCLEOPATRA. I'll give thee, friend,
or hound.  He replied, "I do it advisedly; for it would never doCLEOPATRA. I'll set a bourn how far to be belov'd.
ordained that he be sold to a tanner.  The Ass found that he hadCLEOPATRA. If it be love indeed, tell me how much.
order to secure food more easily.  Encased in the skin of aCLEOPATRA. In praising Antony I have disprais'd Caesar.
origin, and are to be traced to the monks of the middle ages:  andCLEOPATRA. Indeed, he is so. I repent me much
other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but toCLEOPATRA. Indeed?
other infringement, a defective or damaged disk, computer virus,CLEOPATRA. Is Antony or we in fault for this?
other of my former masters, than to have been bought by myCLEOPATRA. Is he married?
other to a tile-maker.  After a time he went to the daughter whoCLEOPATRA. Is not this buckled well?
others came to Sardis, the capital of the famous king of Lydia,CLEOPATRA. Is she as tall as me?
others, and yet are often blind to their own failings.CLEOPATRA. Is this certain?
others.CLEOPATRA. Is't not denounc'd against us? Why should not we
others."CLEOPATRA. It is my birthday.
out a helping hand, the man stood by unconcernedly, and scoldedCLEOPATRA. Lead me.
out his hand to take him.  The Scorpion, showing his sting, said:CLEOPATRA. Let it alone! Let's to billiards. Come, Charmian.
out of her senses, she crept down to the cave of the Sow, andCLEOPATRA. Let me sit down. O Juno!
out of the window, and the Wolf shall eat you."  The Wolf sat allCLEOPATRA. Lord of lords!
out with your litter to find food, the Eagle is prepared toCLEOPATRA. Make thee a fortune from me.
out."CLEOPATRA. Mine ear must pluck it thence.
outside the hole.  The Mouse peeped out, crept furtively up hisCLEOPATRA. Most kind messenger,
outstrip me in your rapid flight.  How then shall I be able toCLEOPATRA. My salad days,
over all the beasts of the forest, and what a disgrace it is,CLEOPATRA. Nay, I'll help too.
over every portion of their land.  They found no treasure, butCLEOPATRA. Nay, hear them, Antony.
over his loss, the Father resolved to kill the Snake.  The nextCLEOPATRA. Nay, pray you seek no colour for your going,
over them another sovereign.  He then gave them an Eel to governCLEOPATRA. No, I will not.
over to the teeth and claws of his companions.CLEOPATRA. None but friends: say boldly.
over.  There is one other yet to pass through the shed, who hasCLEOPATRA. Not know me yet?
overboard, and barely escaped with his life in the empty ship.CLEOPATRA. Not now to hear thee sing; I take no pleasure
overcome with heat, undressed and bathed in a stream that lay inCLEOPATRA. O Charmian,
overturned in a housekeeper's room, and placing their feet in it,CLEOPATRA. O Charmian, I will never go from hence!
own goats just sufficient food to keep them alive, but fed theCLEOPATRA. O most false love!
own hard fate.  Just as they were beginning to eat, someoneCLEOPATRA. O my lord, my lord,
own hospitality.CLEOPATRA. O sun,
own race, consorted exclusively with the lions.  An old sly Fox,CLEOPATRA. O well-divided disposition! Note him,
own shadow reflected in the water, he greatly admired the sizeCLEOPATRA. O!
own wings."CLEOPATRA. O, 'tis treason!
owned by two masters in succession, both inhabitants of Samos,CLEOPATRA. O, I would thou didst,
owner.  On being asked how, in so short a time, he could haveCLEOPATRA. O, is't come to this?
owners, wounded with a sword the Mule carrying the treasure,CLEOPATRA. O, my pardon!
paid no attention to the request.  The Ass shortly afterwardsCLEOPATRA. O, never was there queen
pain, the Lion returned into the forest.  Some time after, theCLEOPATRA. O, that his fault should make a knave of thee
painted on a signboard.  Not supposing it to be only a picture,CLEOPATRA. Pardon, pardon!
panniers filled with money, the other sacks weighted with grain.CLEOPATRA. Perchance? Nay, and most like,
panniers, what matters it to me whom I serve?'CLEOPATRA. Pray you, stand farther from me.
panting convulsively, thus entreated for his life:  "O Sir, whatCLEOPATRA. Prithee, peace.
paroles sont d'un autre."  And again, "C'est donc a Hesiode, queCLEOPATRA. Rogue, thou hast liv'd too long.    [Draws a knife]
part he took in the conversations held with these philosophers,CLEOPATRA. Saw you my lord?
partake of him with me, I shall be delighted to have yourCLEOPATRA. Say 'tis not so, a province I will give thee,
passed through the gully and crushed him to death under itsCLEOPATRA. See where he is, who's with him, what he does.
passing by heard his cries, and coming up, inquired the cause ofCLEOPATRA. Seek him, and bring him hither. Where's Alexas?
passing, and asked him to fetch some water from a stream flowingCLEOPATRA. Sink Rome, and their tongues rot
password:  your@loginCLEOPATRA. Sleep a little.
password:  your@loginCLEOPATRA. So Fulvia told me.
patrimony and had but one good cloak left.  One day he happenedCLEOPATRA. So it should be, that none but Antony
payment, the Wolf, grinning and grinding his teeth, exclaimed:CLEOPATRA. Some innocents scape not the thunderbolt.
peace and reconciliation between us."  The Sheep, poor sillyCLEOPATRA. Sooth, la, I'll help. Thus it must be.
peace was proclaimed, his deceitful conduct was apparent to bothCLEOPATRA. Th'art an honest man.
pecking him with their beaks.  Failing to obtain food among theCLEOPATRA. That Herod's head
pense, including legal fees, that arise by reason of yourCLEOPATRA. That I might sleep out this great gap of time
people, and gave a public notice that he would handsomely rewardCLEOPATRA. That head, my lord?
per text is nominally estimated at one dollar, then we produce 2CLEOPATRA. That time? O times
per text is nominally estimated at one dollar, then we produce aCLEOPATRA. That's my brave lord!
perceiving his design, stung him in the foot.  In pain theCLEOPATRA. That's not so good. He cannot like her long.
perching herself on one of the branches, cawed as loudly as sheCLEOPATRA. The gods confound thee! Dost thou hold there still?
perfume!"CLEOPATRA. The man hath seen some majesty, and should know.
perished from hunger, and afforded ample provision for the CatCLEOPATRA. The most infectious pestilence upon thee!
permission and without paying royalties.  Special rules, setCLEOPATRA. There's gold for thee.
persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.  Planudes hasCLEOPATRA. Thou hast forspoke my being in these wars,
person you received it from.  If you received it on a physicalCLEOPATRA. Thou teachest like a fool- the way to lose him.
persons in her father's house, he made some excuse to send herCLEOPATRA. Thou, eunuch Mardian!
persons to perish.  As he was indulging in these reflections, heCLEOPATRA. Though age from folly could not give me freedom,
persuaded by these words, accepted him as her mate.  ShortlyCLEOPATRA. To th' monument!
petitioned for another change of master.  Jupiter, telling himCLEOPATRA. Was he not here?
philosophers Phaedo, Menippus, and Epictetus, in later times,CLEOPATRA. We will not look upon him. Go with us.
pieces.  I know not, sir, when I got this habit of yawning, norCLEOPATRA. Well said.
pillars and posts, and prove yourselves so serviceable to theCLEOPATRA. Well then, sustain me. O!
pitcher.  Unwilling to lose his filberts, and yet unable toCLEOPATRA. Well, go to, I will.
piteously entreated, saying: "If you would only spare my life, I wouldCLEOPATRA. What is't you say?
place of his concealment.  Supposing all danger to have passed,CLEOPATRA. What say you? Hence,                  [Strikes him]
place they should move for safety.  "There is no occasion to moveCLEOPATRA. What shall we do, Enobarbus?
place to place in every direction, and have sought and learntCLEOPATRA. What should I do I do not?
placed for his use; so that he died, not from his sickness, butCLEOPATRA. What's your name?
placed himself under him, to convey him on his back in safety toCLEOPATRA. What, no more ceremony? See, my women!
placed in the library in cases under glass, for the inspection ofCLEOPATRA. What, was he sad or merry?
placed the faggot into the hands of each of them in succession,CLEOPATRA. Where is he?
placed the hide of the Ass, after he had skinned him.  The Mule,CLEOPATRA. Where is the fellow?
places, but was obliged to keep them in the fold.  He gave hisCLEOPATRA. Where?
placing his paw upon his lap, pulled it out; thus relieved of hisCLEOPATRA. Wherefore is this?
plain, and so intimately interwoven with, and so necessarilyCLEOPATRA. Who's born that day
plan, the Eagle, being in want of provision for her young ones,CLEOPATRA. Why is my lord enrag'd against his love?
play with another dog.  The Hare said to him, "I wish you wouldCLEOPATRA. Why should I think you can be mine and true,
pleasant palace and adorned its walls for his amusement with allCLEOPATRA. Why, there's more gold.
pleased every ear with his song, he himself no sooner opened hisCLEOPATRA. Widow? Charmian, hark!
pleases?'CLEOPATRA. You can do better yet; but this is meetly.
pleasure to his friend, the Cook saw him moving about among hisCLEOPATRA. Your Caesar's father oft,
plenty.  I am surrounded by every luxury, and if you will comeCLEOPATRA. [Aside to ENOBARBUS] What does he mean?
plowlands and roots from the hedgerow, where I can live inCLEOPATRA. [Aside to ENOBARBUS] What means this?
point d'apparence que les fables qui portent aujourd'hui son nomCLOWN.  [Sings]
point only.  We live in freedom, but you bow down to and slaveCLOWN. 'Tis not unknown to you, madam, I am a poor fellow.
pointed to a figure of himself, saying to the Sculptor, "You willCLOWN. A fool, sir, at a woman's service, and a knave at a man's.
poor beast replied, not without a touch of reason:  "Why do youCLOWN. A prophet I, madam; and I speak the truth the next way:
portion to each of the three partners in the treaty.  The AssCLOWN. And I would give his wife my bauble, sir, to do her service.
position of high renown.  In his desire alike to instruct and toCLOWN. As fit as ten groats is for the hand of an attorney, as your
possible for even a Mouse to confer benefits on a Lion."CLOWN. At your service.
possible on account of the cold, determined to make himself aCLOWN. But a trifle neither, in good faith, if the learned should
possibly do you much harm."  The Man, laughing, replied, "Now youCLOWN. But it is your carbonado'd face.
posthumous honors; for a statue was erected to his memory atCLOWN. By my troth, I take my young lord to be a very melancholy
pounce upon in a whole year.CLOWN. Did you find me in yourself, sir, or were you taught to find
pounce upon one of your little pigs."  Having instilled theseCLOWN. E'en that you have there.                          Exit
pounced upon him and carried him off in his talons.  TheCLOWN. Faith, madam, I have other holy reasons, such as they are.
pour la plupart, quant a la matiere et la pensee; mais lesCLOWN. Faith, sir, 'a has an English name; but his fisnomy is more
power of living upon the land."CLOWN. Faith, there's a dozen of 'em, with delicate fine hats, and
powerful than you; and if you doubt it, let us fight and see whoCLOWN. Foh! prithee stand away. A paper from Fortune's close-stool
powerful, and agreed that he should be declared the victor whoCLOWN. From below your duke to beneath your constable, it will fit
practiced a trade destructive to their race.  They assembled on aCLOWN. I am a woodland fellow, sir, that always loved a great fire;
praise of the water, saying it was excellent beyond measure, andCLOWN. I am no great Nebuchadnezzar, sir; I have not much skill in
pray wake up:  for if you fall into the well, the blame will beCLOWN. I am out o' friends, madam, and I hope to have friends for
precious stone and exclaimed:  "If your owner had found thee, andCLOWN. I do beg your good will in this case.
preface to the volume which we have described, points out thatCLOWN. I have been, madam, a wicked creature, as you and all flesh
preliminary version may often be posted for suggestion, commentCLOWN. I have no mind to Isbel since I was at court. Our old ling
preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidstCLOWN. I ne'er had worse luck in my life in my 'O Lord, sir!' I see
prepared for themselves greater troubles, for their mistress, noCLOWN. I will show myself highly fed and lowly taught. I know my
prerogative, and inseparable attribute, the great purpose ofCLOWN. I would cozen the man of his wife, and do his service.
presence of witnesses:  that if he should cure her blindness, heCLOWN. If I put any tricks upon 'em, sir, they shall be jades'
present blessings.CLOWN. In Isbel's case and mine own. Service is no heritage; and I
present owner, who will even after I am dead tan my hide, andCLOWN. Indeed, sir, if your metaphor stink, I will stop my nose; or
presented himself, and striking the Philosopher with his wand,CLOWN. Indeed, sir, she was the sweet-marjoram of the sallet, or,
presented, with all a mother's tenderness, a flat-nosed,CLOWN. It is like a barber's chair, that fits all buttocks-the pin
pretending that he concealed a little pig beneath his clothesCLOWN. Marry, you are the wiser man; for many a man's tongue shakes
pretending to be angry and shaking his stick at him, said, "YouCLOWN. Most fruitfully; I am there before my legs.
primary and private interpretation.  On the first occasion ofCLOWN. My poor body, madam, requires it. I am driven on by the
prime old wine and which still retained the fragrant smell of itsCLOWN. Nay, there is some comfort in the news, some comfort; your
proceed on our journey, my friend, for it is only the caw of aCLOWN. No, madam, 'tis not so well that I am poor, though many of
proceeded far when they met a company of women and children:CLOWN. Not much commendation to them?
proceeded from words to blows, and while the men fought, the AssCLOWN. O Lord, sir!-Nay, put me to't, I warrant you.
proclaimed to all the beasts that he was a learned physician,CLOWN. O Lord, sir!-Spare not me.
proclaimed war by challenging the Weasels, the newly chosenCLOWN. O Lord, sir!-There's a simple putting off. More, more, a
proclamation for a general assembly of all the birds and beasts,CLOWN. O Lord, sir!-Thick, thick; spare not me.
produced her young.  Not long after they had agreed upon thisCLOWN. O Lord, sir!-Why, there't serves well again.
produced some fruit entirely out of season, and waited in theCLOWN. O madam, yonder is heavy news within between two soldiers
profit of me."  The Fisherman replied, "I should indeed be a veryCLOWN. O madam, yonder's my lord your son with a patch of velvet
projected audience is one hundred million readers.  If our valueCLOWN. One good woman in ten, madam, which is a purifying o' th'
projected audience is one hundred million readers.  If our valueCLOWN. One, that she's not in heaven, whither God send her quickly!
prolong his life.  At night they returned home, not dreaming ofCLOWN. She is not well, but yet she has her health; she's very
prolonged."  She replied, "Alas! my son, which of the gods do youCLOWN. So say I, madam, if he run away, as I hear he does the
promise to offer frankincense to Mercury.  Mercury soon appearedCLOWN. So that you had her wrinkles and I her money, I would she
promised a royal reward to the one whose offspring should beCLOWN. That man should be at woman's command, and yet no hurt done!
promised amply to repay him the favor which they asked.  TheCLOWN. The Black Prince, sir; alias, the Prince of Darkness; alias,
promised reward.  A general laugh saluted her on the presentationCLOWN. Truly, Fortune's displeasure is but sluttish, if it smell
promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with thatCLOWN. Truly, madam, if God have lent a man any manners, he may
properly fed, he went up to their racks and cried out:  "Why isCLOWN. Truly, she's very well indeed, but for two things.
property little by little.  And when he had got all she had, heCLOWN. Why, he will look upon his boot and sing; mend the ruff and
protested, and each plucked from him his own feathers, leavingCLOWN. Why, sir, if I cannot serve you, I can serve as great a
provided with teeth, and feet furnished with claws, and I lord itCLOWN. Y'are shallow, madam-in great friends; for the knaves come
provoked at their covetousness that he refused to divide theCLOWN. You should have said, sir, 'Before a knave th'art a knave';
pry into what is in heaven, do you not manage to see what is onCOUNTESS OF ROUSILLON, mother to Bertram
public domain and licensed works that can be freely distributedCOUNTESS.  [Reads]  'I have sent you a daughter-in-law; she hath
public domain etexts, royalty free copyright licenses, andCOUNTESS. 'Tis past, my liege;
publication of this era which most probably has influenced theseCOUNTESS. 'Tis the best brine a maiden can season her praise in.
publicly advised them to cut off their tails, saying that theyCOUNTESS. A very tainted fellow, and full of wickedness.
published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller,COUNTESS. Ah, what sharp stings are in her mildest words!
published in the fourteenth century by Caesar Heisterbach, aCOUNTESS. Alas! and would you take the letter of her?
puffs and advertisements.  When the Cobbler happened to fall sickCOUNTESS. An end, sir! To your business: give Helen this,
pupils, and when arrayed in their rich clothes and masks, theyCOUNTESS. And to be a soldier?
purchasing it.  However, when the Horseman got the hare, he rodeCOUNTESS. Be thou blest, Bertram, and succeed thy father
pure, honorable, and praiseworthy, and to have his indignationCOUNTESS. Brought you this letter, gentlemen?
purpose have I," said the bird, "this dumb beauty so long as I amCOUNTESS. But think you, Helen,
purpose representation of human motive, and the improvement ofCOUNTESS. By what observance, I pray you?
purpose, they divided the term of his life between them, and eachCOUNTESS. Come on, sir; I shall now put you to the height of your
purposely placed his head under the wheels, saying, "At least myCOUNTESS. Do you cry 'O Lord, sir!' at your whipping, and 'spare
put a bridle in his mouth, and to let a child drive him.COUNTESS. Do you love my son?
put collars on your necks.  They make you also guard their sheep,COUNTESS. Dost thou believe't?
put into the poultry-yard, they struck at it and followed itCOUNTESS. Faith I do. Her father bequeath'd her to me; and she
put on his charger its military trappings, and mounted, beingCOUNTESS. Find you that there?
put some of these fables into Latin elegiacs, which are given byCOUNTESS. Get you gone, sir; I'll talk with you more anon.
quickly drove him down, beating him severely with a thick woodenCOUNTESS. Go not about; my love hath in't a bond
quidem proverbiis omnis et totius sapientiae speculum claret etCOUNTESS. Had you not lately an intent-speak truly-
quite ready; it is you for whom I am waiting."COUNTESS. Haste you again.                              Exeunt
rain, in order that the plants may be well watered."  Not longCOUNTESS. Have you, I, say, an answer of such fitness for all
rainbow; while you have not a bit of color on your wings."COUNTESS. He blushes, and 'tis it.
raised himself from the indignity of a servile condition to aCOUNTESS. He was famous, sir, in his profession, and it was his
rate or corrupt, you may send notice within 90 days of receivingCOUNTESS. Heaven bless him! Farewell, Bertram.            Exit
rather have one barleycorn than all the jewels in the world."COUNTESS. His sole child, my lord, and bequeathed to my
reach the land.  The Lion abused him as a traitor.  The DolphinCOUNTESS. I play the noble housewife with the time,
reached the town.    "Pray, honest friend," said a citizen, "isCOUNTESS. I prithee, lady, have a better cheer;
reaching the very brink, he suddenly jumped in, dragging theCOUNTESS. I say I am your mother.
reader.  The Fable partly agrees with, and partly differs fromCOUNTESS. I think, sir, you can eat none of this homely meat.
readily assented and the Fox leaped upon his back.  SteadyingCOUNTESS. I will now hear; what say you of this gentlewoman?
realized that the huge log was motionless, they swam again to theCOUNTESS. I would I had not known him. It was the death of the most
really must have been out of your senses to fasten yourself onCOUNTESS. If the living be enemy to the grief, the excess makes it
reason he had called him.  The Old Man hurriedly replied, "That,COUNTESS. In delivering my son from me, I bury a second husband.
reason to lament the loss of their children, whose deaths haveCOUNTESS. In what case?
reason why we must the more kill you," they replied; "for whenCOUNTESS. Is this all your worship's reason?
rebuke of particular classes of men, the boastful, the proud, theCOUNTESS. It hath happen'd all as I would have had it, save that he
receive this etext from as a PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext) dis-COUNTESS. It must be an answer of most monstrous size that must fit
received it electronically, such person may choose toCOUNTESS. It rejoices me that I hope I shall see him ere I die.
received it with a note explaining such Defects.  Such personCOUNTESS. Let me see what he writes, and when he means to come.
reckoning.  When he had waited some days in vain, he saw theCOUNTESS. Love you my son?
recognized the Shepherd as the man who healed him, and instead ofCOUNTESS. Marry, that's a bountiful answer that fits all questions.
recover for him the axe he had thrown into the pool.COUNTESS. May the world know them?
recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables ofCOUNTESS. Nay, a mother.
reduced to the condition you so lately treated with contempt?'COUNTESS. Nor I your mother?
reeds, caught her.  The Thrush, being at the point of death,COUNTESS. Not much employment for you. You understand me?
reflection on herself.  She ran off to her father.  to be avengedCOUNTESS. Not so, but as we change our courtesies.
reflections."[3]  An equal amount of praise is due for theCOUNTESS. Nothing in France until he have no wife!
refrain from quarreling with each other."COUNTESS. Now, justice on the doers!
relate to one simple action, consistent with itself, and neitherCOUNTESS. Parolles, was it not?
related by Hesiod;[4] the "Eagle wounded by an Arrow, winged withCOUNTESS. Return you thither?
relations."COUNTESS. Sir, I am a poor friend of yours, that loves you.
release himself, although he fluttered with his feathers as muchCOUNTESS. Sirrah, tell my gentlewoman I would speak with her; Helen
remained, she should give him nothing.  This agreement beingCOUNTESS. So 'a is. My lord that's gone made himself much  sport
remove if a neighbor proved unpleasant.  Jupiter, indignant atCOUNTESS. Son, on my life,
rendered him by the Eagle.COUNTESS. Such friends are thine enemies, knave.
repeated with great applause, till on one occasion a courtier,COUNTESS. Tell me thy reason why thou wilt marry.
replied the Lion, "but why do you stand without? Pray enterCOUNTESS. Think upon patience. Pray you, gentlemen-
replied, "I did not know you had come, and I shall not miss youCOUNTESS. This was your motive
replied, "I do not heed your threats; I only care for him whoCOUNTESS. This young gentlewoman had a father- O, that 'had,' how
replied, "I had not leisure enough.  I passed the days inCOUNTESS. Thy marriage, sooner than thy wickedness.
replied, "I indeed, dear Amaranth, flourish but for a briefCOUNTESS. To be young again, if we could, I will be a fool in
replied, "Nay, my friend, blame not me, but Nature, which, whileCOUNTESS. To the court! Why, what place make you special, when you
replied, "No, thank you.  I did not ask that; it is his trackCOUNTESS. Well, now.
replied, "Thank you.  But I can't think that you, who refuse me aCOUNTESS. Well, sir.
replied, "That I might attain your royal hand, there is nothingCOUNTESS. What angel shall
replied, "The arrangement is impossible as far as I am concerned,COUNTESS. What does this knave here? Get you gone, sirrah. The
replied, "You do not see the difference between us:  I was onlyCOUNTESS. What have we here?
replied:  "Quite true, dear Mother; and if you will show me theCOUNTESS. What hope is there of his Majesty's amendment?
reprinted in 1851.  This work consists of conversations in whichCOUNTESS. What is the -matter?
reproached his companion, saying, "It is very hard to have allCOUNTESS. What, one good in ten? You corrupt the song, sirrah.
reproaching himself with his cowardice, wished that he might die.COUNTESS. Wherefore? Tell true.
request and transformed her into a beautiful damsel, so that theCOUNTESS. Which better than the first, O dear heaven, bless!
request, the Woodman, no longer afraid, set upon him with hisCOUNTESS. Why should he be kill'd?
requested that the Wolf pull it out, lest when he ate him itCOUNTESS. Why, Helen, thou shalt have my leave and love,
requested the Fox to do him the favor to make a division.  TheCOUNTESS. Will your answer serve fit to all questions?
requested the two others to make the first choice.  The Lion,COUNTESS. Wilt thou ever be a foul-mouth'd and calumnious knave?
resolved to cut it down, and taking his axe in his hand, made aCOUNTESS. Wilt thou needs be a beggar?
respective rulers Periander and Pisistratus.  One of theseCOUNTESS. With very much content, my lord; and I wish it happily
restored to his friends.COUNTESS. Y'are welcome, gentlemen.
retained our own privileges and have stood for ages."COUNTESS. YOU have discharg'd this honestly; keep it to yourself.
retribution, however, quickly fell upon the Eagle.  WhileCOUNTESS. Yes, Helen, you might be my daughter-in-law.
return late in the evening, what must have been felt towards youCOUNTESS. You know, Helen,
returning to his own country, of the many wonderful and heroicCOUNTESS. You need but plead your honourable privilege.
revenge, tied some rope well soaked in oil to his tail, and setCOUNTESS. You were lately whipp'd, sir, as I think.
reward be given for a lie, with what gift may not I be rewarded,COUNTESS. You'll be gone, sir knave, and do as I command you.
reward for his learning and wit.  One of the privileges of aCame tripping by, but in her maiden hand,
reward she would give him if he would take her aloft and floatCanst thou O cruel, say I love thee not,
right hand and on his left, and that a throne be placed for him,Chiding that tongue that ever sweet,
right to the Shadow.  The owner maintained that he had let theCommanded by the motion of thine eyes?
rightly served for pitying a scoundrel."Coral is far more red, than her lips red,
rights, and you may also have other rights.Cries to catch her whose busy care is bent,
rise to its high requirements, ever aims at one great end andCupid laid by his brand and fell asleep,
rising up, and not knowing what to do, was sadly perplexed.  AtDEMETRIUS,             "    "   "
roar, came and gnawed the rope with his teeth, and set him free, exclaiming:DEMETRIUS. I am full sorry
roaring out in a rage against him, the Fox sought an opportunityDEMETRIUS. Is Caesar with Antonius priz'd so slight?
robbed me; but now that I have discovered the thief, I wouldDERCETAS,              "    "   "
robed, like a king, in gold and purple and all the colors of theDERCETAS. There, Diomed, there.
robes, they fought with one another for the nuts.  The dancingDERCETAS. Thy death and fortunes bid thy followers fly.
run away and hide themselves in their holes at his approach.  ButDIANA, daughter to the Widow
running and said, "Oh! you fellow there! you say you can foretellDIANA. 'Tis not the many oaths that makes the truth,
running for a dinner, but he for his life."DIANA. 'Tis pity he is not honest. Yond's that same knave
rustic produced the little pig from his cloak and showed by theDIANA. Alas, poor lady!
sacred character as ambassador, executed him as a publicDIANA. And this was it I gave him, being abed.
sacred, took great care of it.DIANA. Ay, my good lord.
sacrifice, if he should catch you."  On which the Lamb replied,DIANA. Ay, my lord.
sad plight under a merry guise, the Fox indulged in a lavishDIANA. Ay, so you serve us
safe, exulted over my calamity, have now reason to deplore aDIANA. Because he's guilty, and he is not guilty.
safety from danger and more abundant food.  The other refused,DIANA. By Jove, if ever I knew man, 'twas you.
safety, and without fear."DIANA. Do you know he promis'd me marriage?
safety, began to express his sincere thanks to the Oxen who hadDIANA. For which live long to thank both heaven and me!
sages, and is related so to have pleased his royal master, by theDIANA. Good mother, fetch my bail. Stay, royal sir;
said that he had a kind of entertainment which had never beenDIANA. Good my lord,
said the Wolf, "You feed in my pasture."  "No, good sir," repliedDIANA. He does me wrong, my lord; if I were so
said the Wolves to the Sheep.  "Those evil-disposed Dogs haveDIANA. He-
said the man, "at once show you the Lion himself."  The Hunter,DIANA. I am, my lord, a wretched Florentine,
said to himself, "I shall no longer distress myself at beingDIANA. I did, my lord, but loath am to produce
said to the other, "What a singularly useless tree is the Plane!DIANA. I found it not.
said, "Ah, my good madam, even though you should turn into aDIANA. I have spoke the truth.
said, "And are you indeed to make yourself a judge of theDIANA. I must be patient.
said, "I am rightly served, for why did I attempt the art ofDIANA. I never gave it him.
said, "Master, how can you expect the sheep to be safe if youDIANA. I see that men make ropes in such a scarre
said, "Pray cease to flow into me, and then you will not be madeDIANA. I'll never tell you.
said, "Who are you who dare to feed on my limbs, and to cost meDIANA. I'll put in bail, my liege.
said, "Your children are in great danger; for as soon as you goDIANA. If you shall marry,
said, appeared and thus addressed him:  "Put your shoulders to theDIANA. It might be yours or hers, for aught I know.
said, groaning:  "It would have been better for me to have beenDIANA. It was not given me, nor I did not buy it.
said:  "I know, friend Wolf, that I must be your prey, but beforeDIANA. It was not lent me neither.
said:  "There can henceforth be no peace between us; for wheneverDIANA. Let death and honesty
sale.  When no one appeared willing to buy it, in order toDIANA. Mine honour's such a ring:
same lineaments, image, and superscription) as to secure toDIANA. Monsieur Parolles.
same time that all the Apes be arranged in a long row on hisDIANA. No, my good lord, Diana.
sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation,DIANA. No.
saw her, and taking a successful aim, mortally wounded her.DIANA. She then was honest.
saw his anguish and inquired if he should drive away the fliesDIANA. Sir, much like
saying that he felt it so very hard to leave a place to which heDIANA. That jack-an-apes with scarfs. Why is he melancholy?
saying that if they were ill, he would be happy to prescribe forDIANA. The Count Rousillon. Know you such a one?
saying that of all the animals they ought to be the best friends,DIANA. There is a gentleman that serves the Count
saying, "Although it hurts me very much, I only touched itDIANA. They say the French count has done most honourable service.
saying, "Pray wait, sir, and hold my clothes, or I shall tearDIANA. What some'er he is,
scalding.  The Man raised one of the dishes a little towards hisDIANA. When midnight comes, knock at my chamber window;
scampered off in large numbers to carry out their resolve, theDIANA. Why do you look so strange upon your wife?
scanning machines, OCR software, public domain etexts, royaltyDIANA. Will you not, my lord?
scheme for their common escape.  "If," said he, "you will placeDIANA. You shall not need to fear me.
sculptors.  Phaedrus thus immortalizes the event:DIOMEDES,     "     "      "
sea-birds of her hard fate, that no one would teach her to fly.DIOMEDES. His death's upon him, but not dead.
searched and analyzed, the copyright letters written, etc.  ThisDIOMEDES. Lives he?
searched and analyzed, the copyright letters written, etc.  ThisDIOMEDES. Lock'd in her monument. She had a prophesying fear
searched every corner of his den to find the Mouse.  A Fox seeingDIOMEDES. Most absolute lord,
seashore.  Standing on a projecting rock, he played several tunesDIOMEDES. Now, my lord.
season! If no cruel hand pluck me from my stem, yet I must perishDIOMEDES. What, ho! the Emperor's guard! The guard, what ho!
seated himself in the stem, and the other in the prow of theDIOMEDES. Where's Antony?
second opportunity to receive it electronically, or a refund ofDOLABELLA,     "    "   "
second time of your wings."DOLABELLA. Caesar, 'tis his schoolmaster:
secure the means of living by your plunder?'  "Well, I have oftenDOMITIUS ENOBARBUS, friend to Antony
secure.  But the shepherd, returning to the fold during the nightDUKE. Be it his pleasure.
see but a load of wood."DUKE. So that, from point to point, now have you hear
see me you will be thinking of the death of your son."DUKE. The General of our Horse thou art; and we,
seeing the Fox, inquired if the water was good.  Concealing hisDUKE. Then go thou forth;
seeing the rapid disappearance of the Frogs, one of the HaresDUKE. Therefore we marvel much our cousin France
seeing them shut up in this prison-house."DUKE. Welcome shall they be
seeing this, said, "May I never make myself so ridiculous as youDear heart forbear to glance thine eye aside,
seem to you?'  "Thou art," he said, "a most excellent Ape, and allDesire is death, which physic did except.
seems to me, sorrow is always the twin sister of joy; and it wasDissuade one foolish heart from serving thee,
seize what he wants and to run off; and you, too, can quicklyDistilled from limbecks foul as hell within,
seized her ear with his teeth and bit it off.  The MotherDo I envy those jacks that nimble leap,
seized her, and put her to death.Do I not think on thee when I forgot
seldom went out to dine without bringing him home some tidbit toDost hold Time's fickle glass his fickle hour:
sell him, being such a one as you describe, when you may yourselfDost thou upon thy fading mansion spend?
sent a Heron, who preyed upon the Frogs day by day till thereDoth follow night who like a fiend
sentence:  "I do not think you, Wolf, ever lost what you claim;Doth half that glory to the sober west
separate sentence to explain it; no possibility of impressing itENOBARBUS. 'A bears the third part of the world, man; see'st not?
servant caught a severe cold, but he never changed his color orENOBARBUS. 'Tis better playing with a lion's whelp
servants, hearing the strange hubbub and perceiving the danger ofENOBARBUS. 'Tis true.
served, for having let go of the food that I had in my hand forENOBARBUS. 'Twill be naught;
served; for what business had I who had never handled a net toENOBARBUS. A certain queen to Caesar in a mattress.
service; for when the gold was there, you had it not, as you didENOBARBUS. A very fine one. O, how he loves Caesar!
set in again with renewed frost and cold.  When he found theENOBARBUS. Alack, alack!
set off as fast as you can."ENOBARBUS. Alack, sir, no! Her passions are made of nothing but the
settlement of the dispute.  "And you," they said, "how many sonsENOBARBUS. Alexas did revolt and went to Jewry on
seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yetENOBARBUS. All take hands.
several fables never before published.  In the year 1844,ENOBARBUS. And the business you have broach'd here cannot be
shall certainly die by mine own hands, for no evil, whether it beENOBARBUS. And yonder, Caesar.
shall continue so, if you will only be good enough to go away,ENOBARBUS. Antony only, that would make his will
shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of thisENOBARBUS. At sea, I think.
shall not beat me at that trick!"  and at once proclaimed that heENOBARBUS. Ay, are you thereabouts?
shall not remain supperless"; and he made a meal of him.ENOBARBUS. Ay, sir; we did sleep day out of countenance and made
shall now with less scruple take your life, because you areENOBARBUS. Be witness to me, O thou blessed moon,
shall provide the wine to pour over you when you are led as aENOBARBUS. Bring in the banquet quickly; wine enough
share of his spoil.  The Hound, feeling much aggrieved at this,ENOBARBUS. But he loves Caesar best. Yet he loves Antony.
share which they each had in the affairs of mankind; for the IllsENOBARBUS. But she is now the wife of Marcus Antonius.
share, and said that he would no longer find out the prey, butENOBARBUS. But there is never a fair woman has a true face.
sharp lookout, or you will lose some of your own flock."ENOBARBUS. But why, why,
she could find no place of burial for him.  She let him lieENOBARBUS. Caesar' sister is call'd Octavia.
she flew towards it with a loud whir and unwittingly dashedENOBARBUS. Caesar? Why he's the Jupiter of men.
she had found a store, but had not used it, she had kept it for himENOBARBUS. Drink thou; increase the reels.
she jumped upon a peg, and suspending herself from it, pretendedENOBARBUS. Every time
she sheared the flesh.  The Sheep, writhing with pain, said, "WhyENOBARBUS. Fulvia?
shedding the grain from excess of ripeness.  He said, "I willENOBARBUS. Go to, then- your considerate stone!
sheep"; but no one paid any heed to his cries, nor rendered anyENOBARBUS. Half the heart of Caesar, worthy Maecenas! My honourable
sheep, he pastured with the flock deceiving the shepherd by hisENOBARBUS. He needs as many, sir, as Caesar has,
sheepfold."ENOBARBUS. He thinks, being twenty times of better fortune,
shelter and protection from Man.  He received them kindly,ENOBARBUS. Her gentlewomen, like the Nereides,
shepherd again consented.  But at last the Bitch, protected byENOBARBUS. Here's to thee, Menas!
ship being in danger of sinking, he threw all his merchandiseENOBARBUS. Hoo! says 'a. There's my cap.
ship.  A violent storm arose, and with the vessel in great dangerENOBARBUS. How appears the fight?
shore they found but few fish:  the nets were full of sand andENOBARBUS. How now, friend Eros!
shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables ofENOBARBUS. Humbly, sir, I thank you.                    Exeunt
should be seized and killed.ENOBARBUS. Hush! Here comes Antony.
should beg every Dog in the town to bite me."ENOBARBUS. I Will praise any man that will praise me; though it
should fall into it.  The Lion, seeing that the Ass was secured,ENOBARBUS. I am alone the villain of the earth,
should have thanked you fervently if your deeds had been as goodENOBARBUS. I give it you.
should injure his throat.  The Wolf consented and lifted up theENOBARBUS. I saw her once
should next have something to make us sad."ENOBARBUS. I shall do't.                                Exeunt
should perish, yet will men never want beef."ENOBARBUS. I shall entreat him
should receive from her a sum of money; but if her infirmityENOBARBUS. I shall take it, sir. We have us'd our throats in Egypt.
should repay me with these painful requitals!"ENOBARBUS. I think so too. But you shall find the band that seems
shoulders and set out homewards.  On his way he met a man onENOBARBUS. I will tell you.
shoulders."  "Woe's me!"  said the flea; "this very patting whichENOBARBUS. I'll strike, and cry 'Take all.'
shut the gate.  When the Lion found that he could not escape, heENOBARBUS. I'll yet follow
si heureusement, qu'on l'a regarde comme le vrai pere de cetteENOBARBUS. If I were bound to divine of this unity, I would not
signified that the two men should be brought before him, andENOBARBUS. If he do, sure he cannot weep't back again.
silent, supposed him to be one of themselves and admitted him toENOBARBUS. Madam?
silver axe in his hand, and again asked the Workman if it wereENOBARBUS. Mine, and most of our fortunes, to-night, shall be-
similar misfortune."ENOBARBUS. Most worthy sir, you therein throw away
simple fellow if, for the chance of a greater uncertain profit, IENOBARBUS. Naught, naught, all naught! I can behold no longer.
simplicity, he cast down a huge log into the lake.  The FrogsENOBARBUS. Nay, I have done.
since the one was the king of beasts on the earth, and the otherENOBARBUS. Never! He will not.
singing."  They then said in derision:  "If you were foolish enoughENOBARBUS. No more of that! He did so.
singly:  while the Goods proceed from Jupiter, and are given, notENOBARBUS. No, lady.
singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chainENOBARBUS. No.
sir, pray spare my life, and destroy me not, for I cannotENOBARBUS. Not he that himself is not so; which is Mark Antony. He
sits above you, and who quickens my pace with his whip, or holdsENOBARBUS. Not if the small come first.
sitting had fallen to pieces; and he marveled at the serviceENOBARBUS. Not till you have slept. I fear me you'll be in till
size full of acorns, and spreading his cloak under the branches,ENOBARBUS. Now he'll outstare the lightning. To be furious
size of a lion among wolves, in a herd of lions you areENOBARBUS. O Sir, you had then left unseen a wonderful piece of
size that he ran away.  After a time, perceiving the meekness andENOBARBUS. O sovereign mistress of true melancholy,
skilful introduction of fictitious characters; and yet unlike toENOBARBUS. O, bear me witness, night-
skilled in the use of drugs and able to heal all diseases.  A FoxENOBARBUS. Or, if you borrow one another's love for the instant,
slain a fine sheep, my friend; and if you will come home andENOBARBUS. Our great navy's rigg'd.
slaughter his yoke oxen for food.  On seeing this, his Dogs tookENOBARBUS. Sir,
slave for my father and mother.  Look too, at my feathers--ENOBARBUS. Sir?
slave for them day by day, while I, being so small a creature,ENOBARBUS. So hath my lord dar'd him to single fight.
slightest credit.ENOBARBUS. Spake you of Caesar? How! the nonpareil!
slower of flight and heavier in their bodies, were captured.ENOBARBUS. Take heed you fall not.
small hillock, he saw at its foot a Lion feeding on the Calf.ENOBARBUS. That I beheld;
small or large, ought to be tolerated."ENOBARBUS. That truth should be silent I had almost forgot.
small well to drink.  They fiercely disputed which of them shouldENOBARBUS. Then, world, thou hast a pair of chaps- no more;
smile to the Heifer:  "For this you were allowed to live inENOBARBUS. There I deny my land service. But give me your hand,
so cautious; for if you yesterday treated us better than theENOBARBUS. There's a strong fellow, Menas.
so long as they are not your equals in strength or courage."ENOBARBUS. They are his shards, and he their beetle. [Trumpets
so much trouble in catching you?'  The Flea replied, "O my dearENOBARBUS. They have dispatch'd with Pompey; he is gone;
so wild a region, the Muleteer placed upon the Mule the loadENOBARBUS. Think, and die.
soft as silk to your hand, and not in the least hurt you."ENOBARBUS. This is old. What is the success?
soient les memes qu'il avait faites; elles viennent bien de luiENOBARBUS. This was but as a fly by an eagle. We had much more
some bread and salt in the hole.  The Snake, slightly hissing,ENOBARBUS. Under a compelling occasion, let women die. It were pity
some distance, at one time biting her with his teeth as if heENOBARBUS. Upon her landing, Antony sent to her,
some of these fables into verse, but he thus versified only suchENOBARBUS. We came hither to fight with you.
some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introducedENOBARBUS. Well, is it, is it?
some travelers approaching, the Crow flew up into a tree, andENOBARBUS. Well;
someone else entered to take something out of a cupboard,ENOBARBUS. What mean you, sir,
son dismount, and got up himself.  In this manner they had notENOBARBUS. What's thy passion?
song of triumph, flew away.  But shortly afterwards he becameENOBARBUS. What's your pleasure, sir?
song.  When the time came for killing the Goose, the cook went toENOBARBUS. What, man?
sons would give the same attention to his farm as he himself hadENOBARBUS. When she first met Mark Antony she purs'd up his heart,
soon found that he had not a hair left on his head.ENOBARBUS. Why, sir, give the gods a thankful sacrifice. When it
sorrow, whereupon the young man said, "I wish to say something toENOBARBUS. Why, then we kill all our women. We see how mortal an
sorte de production."   M. Bayle.  Dictionnaire Historique.ENOBARBUS. Would we had all such wives, that the men might go to
sown with wheat.  For a long time the Farmer, brandishing anENOBARBUS. Would you praise Caesar, say 'Caesar'- go no further.
spared his life, fearing for their safety, surrendered to himENOBARBUS. Yes, something you can deny for your own safety: you
speaks the truth in what he says; for I did promise to give him aENOBARBUS. You have done well by water.
special characteristics.  The Tale consists simply in theENOBARBUS. Your presence needs must puzzle Antony;
spectacle thus came to an end amidst the laughter and ridicule ofENOBARBUS. Your ships are not well mann'd;
speech and related it to his mother, inquiring of her to whatENOBARBUS. [Aside to AGRIPPA] He were the worse for that, were he a
speech, my friend; what you thought right then, think right now.ENOBARBUS. [Aside to AGRIPPA] That year, indeed, he was troubled
speech."ENOBARBUS. [Aside to AGRIPPA] Will Caesar weep?
speeches succeeded in separating them, he attacked them withoutENOBARBUS. [Aside to CLEOPATRA] 'Tis one of those odd tricks which
spied the tips of the antlers of the Stag peeping out of theENOBARBUS. [Aside] Mine honesty and I begin to square.
spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoidENOBARBUS. [Aside] To be sure of that,
sponges became swollen with water, greatly increasing his load.ENOBARBUS. [Aside] Well, I could reply:
spring upon the Ass, when the Cock (to the sound of whose voiceENOBARBUS. [Aside] You will be whipt.
squatting on it in contempt.  After some time they began to thinkENOBARBUS. [To ANTONY] Ha, my brave emperor!
squeak.  The Crowd, however, cried out with one consent that theEROS,                  "    "   "
squeezing.  They had scarcely begun their repast again whenEROS. Ay, my lord.
stable with kicks and clubs and cuffs.  The Ass, as he returnedEROS. Ay, noble lord.
statement; and that you distribute exact copies of this etext,EROS. Briefly, sir.
statue carved in stone, which represented "a Lion strangled by aEROS. Caesar and Lepidus have made wars upon Pompey.
staying so long in one spot, and having well bird-limed hisEROS. Caesar, having made use of him in the wars 'gainst Pompey,
steps and refilled his panniers with a larger quantity of saltEROS. Come, sir.                                        Exeunt
sticks."EROS. Farewell, great chief. Shall I strike now?
stint?'  The Ox replied:  "I do not wish to be ungrateful, for I amEROS. For Italy and Caesar. More, Domitius:
stones, and the men were beyond measure cast downso much at theEROS. He's walking in the garden- thus, and spurns
stones, while others, moved with compassion towards one about toEROS. I would not see't.
straight way, I will promise to walk in it."  The Mother tried inEROS. It does, my lord.
stranger.  Not long afterwards he saw the Cocks fighting togetherEROS. My dear master,
strangers more abundantly in the hope of enticing them to stayEROS. My sword is drawn.
strangle the bird.  A countryman saw them, and running up, loosedEROS. Nay, gentle madam, to him! Comfort him.
straw.  Then summoning his laborers, he ordered that the StagEROS. O, sir, pardon me!
stream, and, bringing up a golden axe, inquired if that were theEROS. See you here, sir?
stream.  It fell among some Reeds, which it thus addressed:  "IEROS. Sir, his chests and treasure
strength and prowess.  As they were disputing, they passed aEROS. Sir, sir!
strength of body, and desired yet more, not only refused to giveEROS. Sir, the Queen.
strength, freed himself with a sudden bound from the pit, andEROS. The Queen, my lord, the Queen!
strength; to the nightingale, song; to the raven, favorable,EROS. The gods withhold me!
stretched at his full length and appeared to himself to be of aEROS. There's strange news come, sir.
strong enough to cheat you, but which will never reward you withEROS. They are beaten, sir, and our advantage serves
strong.EROS. Turn from me then that noble countenance,
strong.  I know whom I may bully and whom I must flatter; and IEROS. What would my lord?
struck at by these Gamecocks, when I see that they cannot evenEROS. Why, there then! Thus do I escape the sorrow
studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810.EUPHRONIUS, an Ambassador from Antony to Caesar
stupid clamors of the crowd.  The Governor then called a publicEUPHRONIUS. Ay, my lord.
such an exhibition of yourself? That bell that you carry is not,EUPHRONIUS. Fortune pursue thee!
such as you were when you crept in, and then you will easily getEUPHRONIUS. He says so.
such inveterate faultfinding, drove him from his office of judge,EUPHRONIUS. Lord of his fortunes he salutes thee, and
such respect for him that he would not even touch his dead body.EUPHRONIUS. Such as I am, I come from Antony.
such slender and weak feet.  While he was thus contemplatingEUPHRONIUS. [Aside] Yes, like enough high-battled Caesar will
such vain disputings."Eat up thy charge? is this thy body's end?
suddenly falling on me create these waves, and lash me intoEnjoyed no sooner but despised straight,
suddenly he let her go, and she fell on a lofty mountain, dashingEven so being full of your ne'er-cloying sweetness,
sued in connection with your distribution.FIRST ATTENDANT. The man from Sicyon- is there such an one?
sum of money if I should recover my sight:  but if I continuedFIRST GENTLEMAN. Ay, madam.
summit of a tall cliff, and looking over the sea, saw in theFIRST GENTLEMAN. Ay, madam;
superabundant crop.FIRST GENTLEMAN. Do not say so.
superiority of the counsellor, which often renders counselFIRST GENTLEMAN. Madam, he's gone to serve the Duke of Florence.
supplied with water, and when they saw it, one of the Frogs saidFIRST GENTLEMAN. Such is his noble purpose; and, believe 't,
supposed that he was thus evilly treated because he was aFIRST GENTLEMAN. We serve you, madam,
supposed to have been written by Archilochus, to avenge theFIRST GUARD. And time is at his period.
supposing it to be an egg.  Soon afterwards suffering great painFIRST GUARD. Not I.
supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection ofFIRST GUARD. What's the noise?
sure of overtaking him, but the Horseman increased more and moreFIRST GUARD. Woe, woe are we, sir, you may not live to wear
surpassed in song?'   "The lot of each," replied Juno, "has beenFIRST LORD. 'Tis our hope, sir,
surrounded by too many dangers to please me.  I prefer my bareFIRST LORD. A pox on 't; let it go; 'tis but a drum.
swiftness, so that they unanimously decided to call him "Lion."FIRST LORD. And grant it.
swooped down while the Fox was out, seized upon one of the littleFIRST LORD. And how mightily some other times we drown our gain in
table and smashed all the dishes upon it to atoms.  He thenFIRST LORD. But I am sure the younger of our nature,
take my life without cause or without inquiry.  I have not slainFIRST LORD. But you say she's honest.
take wing.FIRST LORD. Captain, what greeting will you to my Lord Lafeu? I am
taking her up in his talons he carried her almost to the cloudsFIRST LORD. Especially he hath incurred the everlasting displeasure
taste it, met with a fitting requital, after the fashion of herFIRST LORD. Farewell, Captain.
taught me to labor, but to depend for subsistence on the labor ofFIRST LORD. God bless you, Captain Parolles.
tax deductible to the extent allowable by law ("IBC" is IllinoisFIRST LORD. Hath the Count all this intelligence?
tax deductible to the extent allowable by law ("IBC" is IllinoisFIRST LORD. He hath perverted a young gentlewoman here in Florence,
teaching of any moral lesson.  The Parable is the designed use ofFIRST LORD. His love and wisdom,
teeth when there was no danger threatening from either huntsmanFIRST LORD. Holy seems the quarrel
tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquityFIRST LORD. How is this justified?
terror:  "Pray, do come and help me; the Wolf is killing theFIRST LORD. I am heartily sorry that he'll be glad of this.
than before.  When he came again to the stream, the Ass fell downFIRST LORD. I have deliv'red it an hour since. There is something
than he could bear.  He entreated his companion to relieve him ofFIRST LORD. I hear there is an overture of peace.
than he took off one garment after another, and at last, fairlyFIRST LORD. I will never trust a man again for keeping his sword
than us.  So, among other things, this "small print" statementFIRST LORD. If your lordship find him not a hiding, hold me no more
that Ass your own?'  "Yes," replied the old man.  "O, one wouldFIRST LORD. It is the Count Rousillon, my good lord,
that I can again turn in a moment from an Ass to a Horse?'FIRST LORD. It were fit you knew him; lest, reposing too far in his
that I would not have promised, however much I knew that I mustFIRST LORD. Let it be forbid, sir! So should I be a great deal
that being such as I am, I should be frightened by the crowing ofFIRST LORD. Merely our own traitors. And as in the common course of
that follows this statement, you indicate that you agree to andFIRST LORD. None better than to let him fetch off his drum, which
that hairs which are not mine should fly from me, when they haveFIRST LORD. Not till after midnight; for he is dieted to his hour.
that he applied to him an expression which has since passed intoFIRST LORD. O my sweet lord, that you will stay behind us!
that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop,FIRST LORD. O, for the love of laughter, let him fetch his drum; he
that he knew him very well and that he was an intimate friend.FIRST LORD. So 'tis reported, sir.
that he nearly died with fear.  On meeting him for the secondFIRST LORD. That was not to be blam'd in the command of the
that he supposed it would be the prow, the Man said, "Death wouldFIRST LORD. There's honour in the theft.
that he was subject to, broke the cords that bound him and,FIRST LORD. They cannot be too sweet for the King's tartness.
that he went up to him and commenced a familiar conversation withFIRST LORD. This is your devoted friend, sir, the manifold
that he will be just the same as the one he chose for hisFIRST LORD. We shall, noble Captain.
that he would leave soon.  But as he still continued to stay, asFIRST LORD. We will not meddle with him till he come; for his
that he would not alarm his master by barking.  As the ThiefFIRST LORD. We'll make you some sport with the fox ere we case him.
that if the Horse would receive a bit in his mouth and agree toFIRST LORD. What will Count Rousillon do then? Will he travel
that into the bargain."FIRST LORD. Why does he ask him of me?
that it could at the most be a small boat, and not a ship.  WhenFIRST LORD. With all my heart, my lord.                 Exeunt
that it gave more light than the sun.  Then a sudden puff of windFIRST LORD. You do not know him, my lord, as we do. Certain it is
that it would be the last time that he could grant his request,FIRST SERVANT. But it raises the greater war between him and his
that lay upon the path, and said, "I have found an axe."  "Nay, myFIRST SERVANT. Here they'll be, man. Some o' their plants are
that no dependence can be placed on your valor."FIRST SERVANT. They have made him drink alms-drink.
that prior to this publication of M. Mezeriac, the life of AesopFIRST SERVANT. To be call'd into a huge sphere, and not to be seen
that she might get the earliest tidings of the approach of hunterFIRST SOLDIER.                                         [Reads]
that she must tempt them forth by some device.  For this purposeFIRST SOLDIER.  [Reads]  'Dian, the Count's a fool, and full of
that the Mice, being warned by the sound of the tinkling, mightFIRST SOLDIER. 'Demand of him of what strength they are a-foot.'
that the Wolf would be his surety.  The Sheep, fearing some fraudFIRST SOLDIER. 'First demand of him how many horse the Duke is
that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron andFIRST SOLDIER. Acordo linta.
that the young one which was caressed and loved was smothered byFIRST SOLDIER. And you. Good night, good night.
that their housekeeping expenses would be lessened.  The FullerFIRST SOLDIER. Ay; is't not strange?
that were tormenting him.  "By no means," replied the Fox; "prayFIRST SOLDIER. Bosko chimurcho.
that when she appears they look to her as knowing all things,FIRST SOLDIER. Boskos thromuldo boskos.
that you would eat the dead and not the living."FIRST SOLDIER. Boskos vauvado. I understand thee, and can speak thy
the "PROJECT GUTENBERG" trademark.FIRST SOLDIER. Brother, good night. To-morrow is the day.
the "Speculum Sapientiae," attributed to St.  Cyril, ArchbishopFIRST SOLDIER. But wilt thou faithfully?
the Aesopian fables, we find it to be the same."[1]FIRST SOLDIER. Do you know this Captain Dumain?
the Ass a little in his need, I should not now be bearing,FIRST SOLDIER. E'en such as you speak to me.
the Bull dug into the walls with his horns, he tired before heFIRST SOLDIER. Follow the noise so far as we have quarter;
the Carpenter quickly picked up and said, "Well, I think thou artFIRST SOLDIER. Good captain, let me be th' interpreter.
the Cat," there was no one found to do it.FIRST SOLDIER. He calls for the tortures. What will you say without
the Cat.  Among the many plans suggested, the one that found mostFIRST SOLDIER. Here 'tis; here's a paper. Shall I read it to you?
the Cock expostulated in piteous tones from his perch:  "If youFIRST SOLDIER. His qualities being at this poor price, I need not
the Countryman to be kicked out of the theater.  On this theFIRST SOLDIER. I perceive, sir, by our General's looks we shall be
the Crab said, "I well deserve my fate, for what business had IFIRST SOLDIER. I'll whisper with the General, and know his
the Dog and the Hare, should live together in perfect peace andFIRST SOLDIER. If you could find out a country where but women were
the Eagle, full of fear of the Sow, sat still on the branches,FIRST SOLDIER. If your life be saved, will you undertake to betray
the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as theyFIRST SOLDIER. Marry, we'll search.
the Fox.  He declared that he had not seen him, and yet pointed,FIRST SOLDIER. Nay, I'll read it first by your favour.
the Hart began to nibble the tendrils of the Vine.  One of theFIRST SOLDIER. No, sir, I warrant you.
the Hawk to defend them.  He at once consented.  When they hadFIRST SOLDIER. Nothing. What news?
the Jackdaw nothing but a Jackdaw.FIRST SOLDIER. O, pray, pray, pray! Manka revania dulche.
the Lamb in a mournful tone of voice, "I was not then born."  ThenFIRST SOLDIER. Shall I set down your answer so?
the Lamb, "I have not yet tasted grass."  Again said the Wolf,FIRST SOLDIER. That shall you, and take your leave of all your
the Lion fled away as fast as he could.  The Ass, observing hisFIRST SOLDIER. The General is content to spare thee yet;
the Lion had a combat with a wild bull, and called on the DolphinFIRST SOLDIER. There is no remedy, sir, but you must die.
the Lion of not paying any respect to him who had the rule overFIRST SOLDIER. We'll see what may be done, so you confess freely;
the Lion, it is said, has a singular aversion) crowed loudly, andFIRST SOLDIER. Well, is this captain in the Duke of Florence's
the Literature of Ancient Greece, vol.  i.  pp.  190-193.FIRST SOLDIER. Well, sir, good night.
the Monkey stood up and danced.  Having vastly delighted theFIRST SOLDIER. Well, that's set down.
the Owl to be beside herself and said that she was mad.  ButFIRST SOLDIER. Well, that's set down.
the Parable.  The fabulist is to create a laugh, but yet, under aFIRST SOLDIER. Well, that's set down. 'You shall demand of him
the Red Sea."  "I will teach you to fly then," said the Eagle; andFIRST SOLDIER. What is his reputation with the Duke?
the Shadow of the Ass.  As this afforded only protection for one,FIRST SOLDIER. What say you to his expertness in war?
the Shepherd came down and saw what was done, he said, "O youFIRST SOLDIER. What's he?
the Shepherd.  "Then," said the Ass, "as long as I carry theFIRST SOLDIER. What's his brother, the other Captain Dumain?
the Wolves destroyed the unguarded flock at their own pleasure.FIRST SOLDIER. YOU are a merciful general. Our General bids you
the Wolves, they were set upon and torn to pieces.FIRST SOLDIER. You are undone, Captain, all but your scarf; that
the act of reclining to eat, he might attack him to advantage,FIRST WATCH. Go we to him.
the act of seizing her, when a fine young Hart trotted by, and heFIRST WATCH. Hear you, sir?
the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great studentsFIRST WATCH. Let's speak to him.
the attack of the man himself?'FIRST WATCH. Stand close and list him.
the audience.FIRST WATCH. This last day was
the bark of a single dog I feel ready to faint, and fly away asFIRST give me trust the Count he is my husband,
the battle was at its height, a Sprat lifted its head out of theFOURTH LORD. Fair one, I think not so.
the beast was as big as that in size."  "Cease, Mother, to puffFOURTH SOLDIER. No.
the best material for an effective resistance.  A Carpenter, withFOURTH SOLDIER. Under the earth.
the bird exclaimed:  "O unhappy me! who have found in that which IFairing the foul with art's false borrowed face,
the bird, set him free.  The Eagle did not prove ungrateful toFeeding on that which doth preserve the ill,
the birds found that the sling was only swung in the air, theyFor I have sworn deep oaths of thy deep kindness:
the boar escaped.  His master, quickly coming up, was very muchFor all my vows are oaths but to misuse thee:
the bodyguard of her Whelps, who had now grown up and were ableFor compound sweet; forgoing simple savour,
the bottom of the tree.  There, in the sight of the Eagle, theFor if I should despair I should grow mad,
the boy for his imprudence.  "Oh, sir!"  cried the youth, "prayFor if you were by my unkindness shaken
the bystanders interrupted him, saying:  "Now, my good man, ifFor men discased, but I my mistress' thrall,
the cave sharply attacked him with his horns.  The Bull quietlyFor nothing hold me, so it please thee hold,
the chance of obtaining more."For since each hand hath put on nature's power,
the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutelyFor that deep wound it gives my friend and me;
the coil of the Serpent and let the Eagle go free.  The Serpent,For that which longer nurseth the disease,
the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in theFor they in thee a thousand errors note,
the commencement of the Christian era.  Aphthonius, a rhetoricianFor thou art covetous, and he is kind,
the conditions of this "Small Print!" statement.For thou betraying me, I do betray
the conversation began to flag, the Thief yawned terribly and atFor thy records, and what we see doth lie,
the corn-mill and in carrying wood from the forest or burdensFor well thou know'st to my dear doting heart
the crowd made lowly prostration before the Image.  The Ass,For why should others' false adulterate eyes
the curious.Forgot upon your dearest love to call,
the current into a very deep ravine, where he lay for a long timeFrom heaven to hell is flown away.
the distance between them.  The Hunter, sorely against his will,Full charactered with lasting memory,
the distance to feast on the one that should fall first.  They atGALLUS,        "    "   "
the etext or a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it.GENTLEMAN. And you.
the exclusion or limitation of consequential damages, so theGENTLEMAN. Gracious sovereign,
the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained thatGENTLEMAN. I have been sometimes there.
the fable, so conspicuous in the great Greek fabulist.  The exactGENTLEMAN. I shall, my liege.                 Exit GENTLEMAN
the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  FrancisGENTLEMAN. Marry, as I take it, to Rousillon;
the favourite, and minister of Trajan.  These fables, however,GENTLEMAN. Not indeed.
the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attractedGENTLEMAN. The King's not here.
the flesh.  The Fox quickly picked it up, and thus addressed theGENTLEMAN. This I'll do for you.
the fold.  After a long and fruitless search, he made a vow that,GENTLEMAN. What's your will?
the fortunes of others; how is it you did not foresee your own?'Give salutation to my sportive blood?
the gain of which they were assured day by day.Growing a bath and healthful remedy,
the gate and released the Lion.  On his departure the FarmerGrows fairer than at first, more strong, far greater.
the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection ofHELENA, a gentlewoman protected by the Countess
the great patron, in that day, of learning and of learned men.HELENA.  [Reads]  'Till I have no wife, I have nothing in France.'
the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of theHELENA.  [To BERTRAM]  I dare not say I take you; but I give
the ground at the point of death.  A Boar rushed upon him, andHELENA. 'Till I have no wife, I have nothing in France.'
the hands of unskillful operators, and thus suffer a doubleHELENA. All's Well That Ends Well yet,
the head of the Elephant, and he replied, "Do you see that littleHELENA. And ever shall
the hedge itself.  The Bramble, interrupting him, said, "But youHELENA. And no.
the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of AesopianHELENA. And you shall find yourself to be well thank'd,
the horns of the bull below his eyes, so he might better seeHELENA. And you, monarch!
the idol to make him rich, but in spite of his entreaties heHELENA. Ay, madam, knowingly.
the injury.HELENA. Ay, madam.
the justice of the gods.  Not long afterwards the Horse, havingHELENA. Ay, my good lord.
the land of Apes.  One of the Apes, who had raised himself to beHELENA. Ay, surely, mere the truth; I know his lady.
the master spare not his oxen, who work for his gain, how can weHELENA. Ay. You have some stain of soldier in you; let me ask you a
the means of satisfying his hunger.  He more particularlyHELENA. Be not afraid that I your hand should take;
the money (if any) you paid to receive it.HELENA. Bless our poor virginity from underminers and blowers-up!
the more encouraged, believing them to be true; but now put upHELENA. But by the ear, that hears most nobly of him;
the most beautiful among them to be king.  The Jackdaw, knowingHELENA. But he assails; and our virginity, though valiant in the
the most famous of Greek poets, in much obscurity.  Sardis, theHELENA. But this exceeding posting day and night
the narration itself; (2) the deduction of the moral; and (3) aHELENA. But will you make it even?
the neighboring hedge lifted up its voice, and said in a boastfulHELENA. Do not you love him, madam?
the number of your family, the greater your cause of sorrow, inHELENA. Gentlemen,
the occasion of his death.  Having been sent to Delphi with aHELENA. Good madam, pardon me.
the occasion.  The Ox saw what was being done, and said with aHELENA. His name, I pray you.
the old man rest his weary limbs."  Upon this the old man made hisHELENA. How do you mean?
the olive is more dear to me on account of its fruit."  Then saidHELENA. How might one do, sir, to lose it to her own liking?
the ostrich you promised me."  The Kite, soaring aloft into theHELENA. I am a simple maid, and therein wealthiest
the owner released the Ox from his yoke, but bound the HeiferHELENA. I am not worthy of the wealth I owe,
the oxen from eating the hay which had been placed for them.HELENA. I did so.
the passers-by when a person ran up in great haste, andHELENA. I do affect a sorrow indeed, but I have it too.
the perpetual alarm to which they were exposed, with one accordHELENA. I do beseech you, sir,
the plain, carried his load with ease, but when he began toHELENA. I do presume, sir, that you are not fall'n
the pond warned his friend to change his residence and entreatedHELENA. I especially think, under Mars.
the pool at the same place, and sat down on the bank to weep.HELENA. I have, sir, as I was commanded from you,
the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of theHELENA. I hope, sir, I have your good will to have mine own good
the quantity, and you will readily draw out your hand."HELENA. I humbly thank you.
the reflection cast upon her voice, set up a loud caw and droppedHELENA. I like him well.
the refund and replacement provisions of this "small print!"HELENA. I pray you.                              Exit PAROLLES
the rich, and then you can catch me again, and make a handsomeHELENA. I shall not break your bidding, good my lord.
the same time howled like a wolf.  The Innkeeper said, "Why doHELENA. I thank you, and will stay upon your leisure.
the sea.  I shall soon become a large fish fit for the tables ofHELENA. I will stand for 't a little, though therefore I die a
the sea?'HELENA. I will tell truth; by grace itself I swear.
the seasons.  A shower of snow fell upon them, and, finding theHELENA. If I break time, or flinch in property
the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables madeHELENA. If it appear not plain, and prove untrue,
the shearer, who will shear and not hurt me."HELENA. If she be very well, what does she ail that she's not very
the shore.  When the Dolphin arrived with his burden in sight ofHELENA. If you misdoubt me that I am not she,
the snare, she replied, "O Monkey, and are you, with such a mindHELENA. In everything I wait upon his will.
the summer's heat, they left it and set out together for anotherHELENA. Inspired merit so by breath is barr'd.
the tale, but also to practice and to perfect themselves therebyHELENA. Is it yourself?
the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version ofHELENA. Is this the way?
the too great affection of the Mother, while the despised one wasHELENA. Look on this letter, madam; here's my passport.
the two ends of the ship would go down first.  On his replyingHELENA. Madam, I had.
the two.  The Leopard exhibited one by one the various spotsHELENA. Madam, my lord is gone, for ever gone.
the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  MartinHELENA. Mine honourable mistress.
the vines repaid their labor by an extraordinary andHELENA. Monsieur Parolles, you were born under a charitable star.
the war was over, he only allowed him chaff to eat and made himHELENA. My duty then shall pay me for my pains.
the water alike refused shelter to a murderer.HELENA. My lord your son made me to think of this,
the writings that bear his name.HELENA. My mother greets me kindly; is she well?
the year 620 B.C., and to have been by birth a slave.  He wasHELENA. My wish receive,
the year I shall have money enough from my share to buy a newHELENA. No, my good lord;
theater, but now partiality for their favorite actor veryHELENA. Nor would I wish you.
thee, who hast disowned and wronged thy former patron?'HELENA. Nor you, mistress,
thee."  The wounded Lion rushed away in great fear, and when a FoxHELENA. Not here, sir?
their being composed they were intended to refer to some passingHELENA. Not my virginity yet.
their color, while through want of food he perished.HELENA. Now, Dian, from thy altar do I fly,
their cote.  But when one day he forgot himself and began toHELENA. O, I believe with him,
their flocks and begged only for their lives.  To them theHELENA. O, my good lord, when I was like this maid,
their master, quickly relieved him, and drove out the Ass to hisHELENA. O, were that all! I think not on my father;
their mutual protection, went out into the forest to hunt.  TheyHELENA. Our remedies oft in ourselves do lie,
their nets into a river, and narrowly watched their proceedings.HELENA. Pardon, madam.
their own accord dance into his net, which he had placed below.HELENA. Perchance he's hurt i' th' battle.
their past folly.HELENA. Pray, sir, your pardon.
their path.  One of them climbed up quickly into a tree andHELENA. Sir, I can nothing say
their plentiful maintenance.  The Doves, as long as he wasHELENA. Sir, I have seen you in the court of France.
their resolve and refused their assistance to the Belly.  TheHELENA. So is running away, when fear proposes the safety: but the
their scholars, not only inviting them to discuss the moral ofHELENA. Something; and scarce so much; nothing, indeed.
their shoulders over a bridge near the entrance to the town.HELENA. Take this purse of gold,
their strength, and were not able to do it.  He next opened theHELENA. Tax of impudence,
them all and of not coming to visit him.  At that very moment theHELENA. Thanks, sir; all the rest is mute.
them all by his performance that they elected him their King.  AHELENA. That I am not.
them and cure them.  They replied, "We are all very well, andHELENA. That I wish well. 'Tis pity-
them at once resolved to try and secure the same good fortune forHELENA. That it will please you
them down with its weight, at once despoiling it of its beautyHELENA. That wishing well had not a body in't
them for their pains.  The Wolf, however, did truly come at last.HELENA. That you are well restor'd, my lord, I'm glad.
them from their hiding-places, and in the scuffle with theirHELENA. That you may well perceive I have not wrong'd you!
them into his sons' hands, upon which they broke them easily.  HeHELENA. The greatest Grace lending grace.
them produce finer grapes.  The Wasps said that they would keepHELENA. The honour, sir, that flames in your fair eyes,
them to bring him a bundle of sticks.  When they had done so, heHELENA. The rather will I spare my praises towards him;
them to pieces in my fury, when I turn into a wolf."  At the sameHELENA. The wars hath so kept you under that you must needs be born
them, "If you go on in this way, you will soon destroy byHELENA. Then I confess,
them, "it proves what I was a-saying.  What respect is shown toHELENA. Then shalt thou give me with thy kingly hand
them, and seizing the Kid scampered off as fast as he could.  TheHELENA. There's something in't
them, but wearied herself in vain, for she could not reach them.HELENA. To Saint Jaques le Grand.
them, when one of the Frogs, lifting his head out of the water,HELENA. To each of you one fair and virtuous mistress
them.  The Sea, assuming the form of a woman, replied to him:HELENA. What I can do can do no hurt to try,
them.  When the Frogs discovered his easy good nature, they sentHELENA. What is your pleasure, madam?
them.  When the Satyr asked the reason for this, he told him thatHELENA. What more commands he?
themselves down at noon under the widespreading branches of aHELENA. What two things?
themselves ill-treated in the appointment of so inert a Ruler,HELENA. What's his else?
themselves in the depths of the pool.  But as soon as theyHELENA. What's his name?
themselves, and were suffocated.  Just as they were expiring,HELENA. When he was retrograde, I think, rather.
themselves."HELENA. Which is he?
then addressed them in these words:  "My sons, if you are of oneHELENA. Which is the Frenchman?
there gaping? Everything is ready but you, so come with meHELENA. Why then to-night
there is a great treasure hid in one of my vineyards."  The sons,HELENA. Yet, I pray you:
there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to proveHELENA. You are my mother, madam; would you were-
there such a scarcity of fodder? There is not half enough strawHELENA. You are too young, too happy, and too good,
there, broke in the tiling.  The owner went up after him andHELENA. You go so much backward when you fight.
there," cried one of them, "did you ever see such fellows, to beHELENA. You see it lawful then. It is no more
thereby to make himself the most beautiful of all.  When theHELENA. Your pardon, noble mistress.
therefore remain unbroken, and escape."Had, having, and in quest, to have extreme,
these fables.  Phaedrus, a slave by birth or by subsequentHate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving,
these thy companions after thy example are excellent Apes too."Hath left me, and I desperate now approve,
these wedges made from my own branches."Have I not seen dwellers on form and favour
these words said to her brood, "It is time now to be off, myHave faculty by nature to subsist,
they agreed that the Fox should choose the course and fix theHave put on black, and loving mourners be,
they are not the least like those of a Crane."   The FarmerHe is contented thy poor drudge to be,
they exclaimed, "O foolish creatures that we are, for the sake ofHe learned but surety-like to write for me,
they journeyed, they passed through a cemetery full of monuments.Her eyes so suited, and they mourners seem,
they looked was driven nearer to shore by the wind, they foundHer pretty looks have been mine enemies,
they talked, the Man put his fingers to his mouth and blew onHow can it? O how can love's eye be true,
they were accustomed to find their food.  After this, heHow have mine eyes out of their spheres been fitted
they were playing one day as children, they happened by chance toHow oft when thou, my music, music play'st,
thing is wrong with your copy.I do believe her though I know she lies,
things went with her.  She said, "All things are prospering withI grant I never saw a goddess go,
think will pity you? Is there one whom you have not outraged byI guess one angel in another's hell.
thinking that he had a capital opportunity, accused the Fox toI have seen roses damasked, red and white,
thinking that they bowed their heads in token of respect forI love to hear her speak, yet well I know,
third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitledI may be straight though they themselves be bevel;
thirst, thoughtlessly jumped down, but just as he drank, the FoxI sick withal the help of bath desired,
this be all true there is no need of witnesses.  Suppose thisIRAS,       "      "      "     "
this fable as existing before his day.  See Scholiast on the AvesIRAS. Am I not an inch of fortune better than she?
this labor, while you, who do not assist in the chase, luxuriateIRAS. Amen. Dear goddess, hear that prayer of the people! For, as
this man, being on foot, would contrive darts armed with feathersIRAS. But how, but how? Give me particulars.
this milk will be sold, will buy at least three hundred eggs.IRAS. Do, most dear Queen.
this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning,IRAS. Go to him, madam, speak to him.
this treatment, accused him of impiety, and, in spite of hisIRAS. Go, you wild bedfellow, you cannot soothsay.
this way, you would have had your deserts from his sharp teeth."IRAS. Madam, O good Empress!
this:  I have taken you with these robbers, the Cranes, and youIRAS. No, you shall paint when you are old.
thorn, when the Ass, with his heels, kicked his teeth into hisIRAS. Not in my husband's nose.
thorn-tree, meaning to cut a stick from its branches so that heIRAS. There's a palm presages chastity, if nothing else.
those of Aesop, and none have the concinnity, terseness, andIf I might teach thee wit better it were,
those who go out early in the morning with their flocks andIf Nature (sovereign mistress over wrack)
thou who mockest me, but the roof on which thou art standing."If eyes corrupt by over-partial looks,
though I be silent."If hairs be wires, black wires grow on her head:
though thus originating in special events, and designed at firstIf it be not, then love doth well denote,
thought so little of, for I have lost nothing, nor am I hurt withIf my dear love were but the child of state,
thought that they gave him this name in earnest, and, leaving hisIf snow be white, why then her breasts are dun:
threw him the pieces of meat, the Dog said, "If you think to stopIf that be fair whereon my false eyes dote,
threw it into the river, but became tangled in the meshes andIf thy soul check thee that I come so near,
threw them upon the stage.  The Monkeys at the sight of the nutsIn a cold valley-fountain of that ground:
through a hedge he had trod with his foot upon a sharp thorn.  HeIn act thy bed-vow broke and new faith torn,
throwing down his load, besought "Death" to come.  "Death"In faith I do not love thee with mine eyes,
thrown on me, and I shall get an ill name among mortals; for IIn loving thee thou know'st I am forsworn,
thus hoping to become rich all at once, deprived themselves ofIn pursuit of the thing she would have stay:
thus prolong my life to a good old age."In the distraction of this madding fever!
thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthyIn the old age black was not counted fair,
tial damages, so the above disclaimers and exclusions may notIn things of great receipt with case we prove,
till you can deceive others who do not know you.  I, indeed, whoIn vowing new hate after new love bearing:
time escaped.Is lust in action, and till action, lust
time the same exchange day after day.  Finally a neighbor said toIs more than my o'erpressed defence can bide?
time went on, the rich man became accustomed to the smell, andIs perjured, murd'rous, bloody full of blame,
time, he was still much alarmed, but not to the same extent as atIs't not enough to torture me alone,
tiny insect, see what you have done to yourself to add insult toIt fears not policy that heretic,
tion of this etext by you, whether or not for profit or underIt is the star to every wand'ring bark,
title of the book is this:  "Speculum Sapientiae, B.  CyrilliIt might for Fortune's bastard be unfathered,
to IBC, too)It suffers not in smiling pomp, nor falls
to IBC, too)KING OF FRANCE
to Jupiter, and besought him to give him horns.  Jupiter, vexedKING.  [Reads the letter]  'Upon his many protestations to marry me
to Phalaris.  In a similar manner, the fable from Phaedrus, theKING. 'Tis only title thou disdain'st in her, the which
to a Lion.  The Lion concealed himself on seeing her approach,KING. All is whole;
to a neighboring cedar, "The first step has lost us all.  If weKING. Art thou so confident? Within what space
to all who do not administer to his comfort or to hisKING. As thou art a knave and no knave.
to back off at the first attack he replied:  "You counsel me inKING. Ay, by my sceptre and my hopes of heaven.
to be Rhodes, and leap for us."KING. But wilt thou not speak all thou know'st?
to be afraid, she kept a lookout all through the day.  Meanwhile,KING. Come hither, Count; do you know these women?
to be dead.  One of the Mice, peeping stealthily out, saw her andKING. Come, come, to th' purpose. Did he love this woman?
to be in good condition, you should groom me less, and feed meKING. Farewell, young lords; these war-like principles
to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  TheKING. Farewell.  [To ATTENDANTS]  Come hither to me.
to be spared his life.  The Weasel refused, saying that he was byKING. Find him, and bring him hither.        Exit an ATTENDANT
to bite them without notice.  His master suspended a bell aboutKING. Go, call before me all the lords in court.
to catch the Hart, and returned to feed upon the Hare.  OnKING. Good fortune and the favour of the King
to caution the inhabitants of Himera against granting a bodyguardKING. He hath arm'd our answer,
to change her into the form of a woman.  Venus consented to herKING. Here is my hand; the premises observ'd,
to commerce.  He sold all his flock, invested it in a cargo ofKING. How is that?
to defend himself and said, "And who of all those who have comeKING. How, I pray you?
to defend themselves, asserted her exclusive right to the placeKING. I am not a day of season,
to each other, "It is time for us to be off to Liliput:  for thisKING. I am wrapp'd in dismal thinkings.
to fall into the water, Dame Fortune, it is said, appeared to himKING. I cannot give thee less, to be call'd grateful.
to get any etext selected, entered, proofread, edited, copyrightKING. I fill a place, I know't. How long is't, Count,
to get any etext selected, entered, proofread, edited, copyrightKING. I knew him.
to grind instead of serving in the wars, he bewailed his changeKING. I must not hear thee. Fare thee well, kind maid;
to harm the Fox.  Then, upon assuring the Ass that he would notKING. I think thee now some common customer.
to have to sharpen my weapons just at the time I ought to beKING. I wonder, sir, sith wives are monsters to you.
to help him with his harvest is not really in earnest."  The ownerKING. I would I had that corporal soundness now,
to help him.  The Dolphin, though quite willing to give himKING. I would I had; so I had broke thy pate,
to help me with my harvest."  One of the young Larks heard hisKING. I'll fee thee to stand up.
to his axe from it, than he began to use it and quickly felledKING. If he were living, I would try him yet-
to his den, and lying down there, pretended to be sick, takingKING. If it were yours by none of all these ways,
to his friend:  "Although you have prepared for me so dainty aKING. Is there no exorcist
to his stall beaten nearly to death, thus lamented:  "I haveKING. Know you this ring? This ring was his of late.
to identify, transcribe and proofread public domain works.KING. Know'st thou not, Bertram,
to its widest extent, swallowed it down with the utmost relish,KING. Let us from point to point this story know,
to me a most mighty king."  "And what is your estimate of thoseKING. Make choice and see:
to me."  Upon which the Wolf seized him and ate him up, saying,KING. Make thy demand.
to meet special circumstances, are so admirably constructed as toKING. Methinks in thee some blessed spirit doth speak
to mind the axes and saws which are about to hew you down, youKING. Methought you said
to move another step.  The driver, seeing him thus stop, laid hisKING. My honour'd lady,
to obtain meat for the next day, mistakenly caught up the WolfKING. My honour's at the stake; which to defeat,
to pay us if you distribute using our trademark, and if we getKING. Nay, 'tis most credible. We here receive it,
to pick out a fine young Cock just attaining to his comb.  ButKING. No, no, it cannot be; and yet my heart
to receive from me any repayment of your favor; now you know that it isKING. No.
to see a Swallow, which had appeared before its season, skimmingKING. Now, fair one, does your business follow us?
to seize them, the Shepherd began to look upon him as a guardianKING. Now, good Lafeu,
to sell him.  They had not gone far when they met with a troop ofKING. Now, pray you, let me see it; for mine eye,
to shut up a wolf with them, when his Dog perceiving the wolfKING. Peruse them well.
to sing all the summer, you must dance supperless to bed in theKING. Plutus himself,
to snatch a lamb from the fold, but he himself fell prey to theKING. Praising what is lost
to spare it, and they would sing to him and lighten his labors.KING. She does abuse our ears; to prison with her.
to take an active interest in public affairs; and Aesop, like theKING. She hath that ring of yours.
to take from everyone, and never to give anything in return."KING. Sir, for my thoughts, you have them ill to friend
to take my honey, I may kill him."  Jupiter was much displeased,KING. Take her away, I do not like her now;
to test his skill.  For this purpose he called for a cup, andKING. Take her away.
to the Lion, stood on the outside of the cave, at a respectfulKING. Take her by the hand,
to the farmhouse, when she fell a-musing.  "The money for whichKING. Tell me, sirrah-but tell me true I charge you,
to the other, "Let us descend and make our abode in this well:  itKING. The Florentines and Senoys are by th' ears;
to the same place, to find that the wall under which he had beenKING. The King's a beggar, now the play is done.
to the shore; but he could not prevent the smaller fish fromKING. The heavens have thought well on thee, Lafeu,
to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, isKING. The story, then, goes false you threw it him
to town with his friend.  On his arrival, the Town Mouse placedKING. Then shall we have a match. I have letters sent me
to visit the bird-trap in the morning?'  He replied, "What you sayKING. This haste hath wings indeed.
to visit their king, except the Fox.  The Wolf therefore,KING. This ring was mine, I gave it his first wife.
to which had made the most perfect work.  They agreed to appointKING. Those girls of Italy, take heed of them;
to which he was exposed, he schemed to convince all the otherKING. Thou hast spoken all already, unless thou canst say they are
to you have benefited you so much as I, who have traveled fromKING. Thou know'st she has rais'd me from my sickly bed.
to you to be, O strangers?'  The Lying Traveler replied, "You seemKING. Thou speak'st it falsely, as I love mine honour;
together and with the help of a pole endeavored to carry him onKING. Thou wrong'st thyself, if thou shouldst strive to choose.
together to consider the best means of protecting it from theKING. Thus he his special nothing ever prologues.
together with his burden, himself as well."KING. Upon thy certainty and confidence
together with his own for the night.  The next day it snowed veryKING. We lost a jewel of her, and our esteem
together.  The Tortoise never for a moment stopped, but went onKING. We thank you, maiden;
tolerant only of his own household, but averse to strangers andKING. Well excus'd.
tom the soles of his feet, he accused the Bramble because, whenKING. What her is this?
tone:  "I must have made a mistake; my father, after all, couldKING. What ring was yours, I pray you?
tone:  "Pray, my dear friends, in my presence at least cease fromKING. What say'st thou to her?
top of the water, dismissed their fears, climbed up, and beganKING. What says he to your daughter? Have you spoke?
tore him to pieces.KING. What's he comes here?
tore himself with his claws, until he punished himself severely.KING. Where did you buy it? Or who gave it you?
tormented him with reflections on his unhappy fate in beingKING. Where did you find it then?
touching them with his hands.  The whelp of a Wolf was broughtKING. Wherefore hast thou accus'd him all this while?
toute."KING. Who lent it you?
tradition.  Socrates is mentioned by Plato[8] as having employedKING. Why, then, young Bertram, take her; she's thy wife.
transformed me from a Horse into an Ass; and how can you expectKING. Would I were with him! He would always say-
translated by Robert Dodsley, accompanied with a selection ofKING. You boggle shrewdly; every feather starts you.
translated into prose.  Avienus, also a contemporary of Ausonius,KING. Youth, thou bear'st thy father's face;
trap, and leading the Monkey to the place where it was, said thatKnowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
trap; and on his accusing the Fox of purposely leading him intoLAFEU, an old lord
trapped a Stork that had fractured his leg in the net and wasLAFEU.  [Kneeling]  Pardon, my lord, for me and for my tidings.
traveling cloak said, "I'll at him, and I'll take care he shallLAFEU.  [Reading the ballad title]  'A Showing of a Heavenly
treated her, she replied, "The herdsmen and shepherds cast on meLAFEU.  [To BERTRAM]  Your reputation comes too short for
treated these poor Ants?'LAFEU. 'Fore God, I think so.
treatment from thee, a disgrace to Nature, is indeed to die aLAFEU. 'Twas a good lady, 'twas a good lady. We may pick a thousand
tree in company with a Kite.  "Why," said the Kite, "do I see youLAFEU. A fistula, my lord.
tree, he found a hive full of honey.  Having tasted theLAFEU. A good traveller is something at the latter end of a dinner;
trees not yielding fruit, inquired the reason for their choice.LAFEU. A scar nobly got, or a noble scar, is a good liv'ry of
trees to be under their special protection.  Jupiter chose theLAFEU. A shrewd knave, and an unhappy.
tremor every now and then.  Just at that moment a Gnat settled onLAFEU. All that he is hath reference to your Highness.
trepidation at the mere crowing of a Cock summoned courage toLAFEU. And shall do so ever, though I took him at's prayers.
trudging along the road on foot when they might ride?'  The oldLAFEU. And what would you have me to do? 'Tis too late to pare her
true, O Jupiter!"  he said, "that I am gigantic in strength,LAFEU. Are you companion to the Count Rousillon?
true, slaughter us, but they do so with skillful hands, and withLAFEU. Ay, with all my heart; and thou art worthy of it.
trunk.  A Fox passing by asked him why he thus sharpened hisLAFEU. Ay; is it not a language I speak?
trust my sheep to a Wolf?'LAFEU. But I hope your lordship thinks not him a soldier.
trusts his friends, but will reap the field himself."LAFEU. Come on, my son, in whom my house's name
truth, I drank so much wine that I remember nothing.  I do notLAFEU. Do all they deny her? An they were sons of mine I'd have
truth, and is so full of absurd pictures of the grotesqueLAFEU. Do not plunge thyself too far in anger, lest thou hasten thy
try and catch fish?'LAFEU. Do you hear, monsieur? A word with you.
try."  So, alighting with his son, they tied the legs of the AssLAFEU. Ev'n as soon as thou canst, for thou hast to pull at a smack
trying to neigh, they forgot how to sing.LAFEU. Farewell, pretty lady; you must hold the credit of your
tumbling off the pole, fell into the river.  Upon this, the oldLAFEU. Generally thankful.
turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on theLAFEU. Go thy ways, I begin to be aweary of thee; and I tell thee
turn, asked the Fox to sup with him, and set before her a flagonLAFEU. Go to, sir; you were beaten in Italy for picking a kernel
turned piper to please you."LAFEU. Good faith, across!
turned to him.  "And pray how do I and these my friends around meLAFEU. He cannot want the best
turning about, said to him:  "That is the very reason why we areLAFEU. He hath abandon'd his physicians, madam; under whose
turning very pale and chattering with his teeth from fear,LAFEU. He looks well on 't.
tutor to Louis XIII of France, from his desire to devote himselfLAFEU. He was excellent indeed, madam; the King very lately spoke
twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discoveryLAFEU. He's a good drum, my lord, but a naughty orator.
unauthorized distribution of a work that is not in the publicLAFEU. His Highness comes post from Marseilles, of as able body as
unceasing warfare; and that an indissoluble law might be laidLAFEU. Hold thee, there's my purse. I give thee not this to suggest
unceasingly with his stings, wounded him to death.  The Snake,LAFEU. How call'd you the man you speak of, madam?
under the Project's "PROJECT GUTENBERG" trademark.LAFEU. How understand we that?
under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth liesLAFEU. I am sure I saw her wear it.
under the paw of the Lion."LAFEU. I did think thee, for two ordinaries, to be a pretty wise
under the water and drowned him.LAFEU. I had rather be in this choice than throw ames-ace for my
under the weight, no longer equal to the burden, and said to hisLAFEU. I have then sinn'd against his experience and transgress'd
understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection withLAFEU. I like him well; 'tis not amiss. And I was about to tell
undertook to distribute the prey, and for this purpose divided itLAFEU. I may truly say it is a novelty to the world.
undone."  "Nay," replied the other, "keep to your first mode ofLAFEU. I must tell thee, sirrah, I write man; to which title age
undoubtedly selected.LAFEU. I saw the man to-day, if man he be.
unexpected favors to myself, you have some private ends toLAFEU. I will buy me a son-in-law in a fair, and toll for this.
unfold a tail gorgeous with painted plumage."  "But for whatLAFEU. I will subscribe for thee; thou art both knave and fool.
unfortunate Swallow lifeless on the ground, he said, "UnhappyLAFEU. I would it were hell pains for thy sake, and my poor doing
unfortunately.  The Wild Sow, whom you see daily digging up theLAFEU. I would it were not notorious. Was this gentlewoman the
uninjured by all the attempts of your enemies; but if you areLAFEU. I'd give bay Curtal and his furniture
uninterred for five days, and on the sixth day, not knowing whatLAFEU. In a most weak-
unison with her thoughts, when down fell the milk pail to theLAFEU. Lady, of that I have made a bold charter; but, I thank my
unity of design, that close connection of the moral with theLAFEU. Let us go see your son, I pray you;
universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachersLAFEU. Lustig, as the Dutchman says. I'll like a maid the better,
universal popular consent.  The Fox should be always cunning, theLAFEU. Madam, I was thinking with what manners I might safely be
unmistakable deduction of the lesson intended to be taught byLAFEU. Mine eyes smell onions; I shall weep anon. [To PAROLLES]
unpalatable, is kept out of view, and the lesson comes with theLAFEU. Moderate lamentation is the right of the dead: excessive
unpleasant smell of the tan-yard, he pressed his neighbor to goLAFEU. Nay, I'll fit you,
unruffled calm of the Sea, he interrupted him and said, "It isLAFEU. Nay, come your ways.
unsuspected danger.LAFEU. Nay, come your ways;
until at last, resigning all hope of victory, the Wind calledLAFEU. No, no, no, son was misled with a snipt-taffeta fellow
until they made a public reparation of their crime; and, "TheLAFEU. No, no, no.
up and felt him with his snout, and smelt him all over, he heldLAFEU. Not to be help'd-
up angrily, he caught him and was about to kill him, when the MouseLAFEU. O, I know him well. Ay, sir; he, sir, 's a good workman, a
up for his own deprivation.  He assembled a good many Foxes andLAFEU. O, will you eat
up the chase.  A goat-herd seeing him stop, mocked him, sayingLAFEU. Of all the learned and authentic fellows-
up the river, but it happened that they burst themselves withLAFEU. Out upon thee, knave! Dost thou put upon me at once both the
up to a group of old men in earnest debate.  "There," said one ofLAFEU. Pray you, sir, who's his tailor?
up to date first edition [xxxxx10x.xxx] please check file sizesLAFEU. Sirrah, your lord and master's married; there's news for
up to him and caught him.  When too late, he thus reproachedLAFEU. So you were a knave at his service, indeed.
up to them?'LAFEU. That gave him out incurable-
up with his hounds and inquired of the Woodcutter if he had seenLAFEU. The devil it is that's thy master. Why dost thou garter up
up, perched himself on the branches of a tree, while the DogLAFEU. Then here's a man stands that has brought his pardon.
upbraided him as an unnatural child, whereon he replied, "Ah! ifLAFEU. Then my dial goes not true; I took this lark for a bunting.
upon the Sun to see what he could do.  The Sun suddenly shone outLAFEU. There's one grape yet; I am sure thy father drunk wine-but
us, and we do not cry out."  To this the Pig replied, "YourLAFEU. These boys are boys of ice; they'll none have her.
us."LAFEU. They are not sallet-herbs, you knave; they are nose-herbs.
use I gave credence to the words of a woman!"LAFEU. They say miracles are past; and we have our philosophical
use will effect the Project's reputation, your right to copy andLAFEU. This I must say-
using them."LAFEU. This woman's an easy glove, my lord; she goes of and on at
utmost speed, as long as the plain was smooth and open keptLAFEU. To be relinquish'd of the artists-
utterly ridiculous a manner that the Beasts, in a fit ofLAFEU. To what is count's man: count's master is of another style.
vain, and submitted without remonstrance to the reproof of herLAFEU. Uncertain life and sure death.
vain; for if he sends so fearful a messenger, how shall I abideLAFEU. Very hand of heaven.
valuable goods:  but now, though he swears I am cured of myLAFEU. Was I, in sooth? And I was the first that lost thee.
vanquished Cock immediately came out of his corner, and ruledLAFEU. What prince is that?
variety of circumstances.  The moral or lesson should be soLAFEU. Whether dost thou profess thyself-a knave or a fool?
various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six newLAFEU. Who's that? A Frenchman?
various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, atLAFEU. Who? God?
various statues, he demanded the price of two figures of JupiterLAFEU. Why, Doctor She! My lord, there's one arriv'd,
various versions of the fables.  Ausonius,[9] the friend of theLAFEU. Why, your dolphin is not lustier. 'Fore me, I speak in
vengeance on their persecutors.  They entreated Jupiter that theyLAFEU. Yes, good faith, ev'ry dram of it; and I will not bate thee
veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  ThisLAFEU. You beg a single penny more; come, you shall ha't; save your
verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one ofLAFEU. You beg more than word then. Cox my passion! give me your
very great amusement."LAFEU. You have it from his own deliverance.
very much bruised, sick, and unable to move.  A swarm of hungryLAFEU. You have made shift to run into 't, boots and spurs and all,
very same axe that he had lost.  Mercury, displeased at hisLAFEU. You shall find of the King a husband, madam; you, sir, a
very slowly."LAFEU. Your commendations, madam, get from her tears.
vessel.  Determined to keep as far apart as possible, the oneLAFEU. Your distinction?
victim to the sacrifice."LAFEU. Your lord and master did well to make his recantation.
victors.  The Mice thought that the cause of their frequentLAVACHE, a clown and Servant to the Countess of Rousillon
violent dispute arose between them as to which of them had theLEPIDUS. 'Tis a strange serpent.
violent tempest arose in which the ship was wrecked and he, hisLEPIDUS. 'Tis noble spoken.
vipers which, when they shall have grown, will inflict injury onLEPIDUS. 'Tis not a time
visit, found the hole empty and began to tear his hair and toLEPIDUS. 'Tis pity of him.
visited her, to pull out some portion of his black hairs.  TheLEPIDUS. Be pleas'd to tell us-
visited in this disguise a Sculptor's studio having looked atLEPIDUS. But small to greater matters must give way.
visits to the spot and decided to watch his movements.  He soonLEPIDUS. Farewell, my lord. What you shall know meantime
voice than he exclaimed, "I might possibly have been frightenedLEPIDUS. Farewell.                                      Exeunt
volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus FabularumLEPIDUS. Good Enobarbus, 'tis a worthy deed,
wage war successfully with the hugest beasts, should perishLEPIDUS. Happily, amen!
wake them up in the night to their work."  "That is the veryLEPIDUS. Here's more news.
waking my porter, so that he may open the door and let you in."LEPIDUS. I am not so well as I should be, but I'll ne'er out.
waking up, and moving as fast as he could, he saw the TortoiseLEPIDUS. I must not think there are
wanted, said, "If you would be cured, take a piece of bread, andLEPIDUS. Let all the number of the stars give light
wanting."LEPIDUS. Nay, certainly, I have heard the Ptolemies' pyramises are
wants, while you do nothing but take your rest, and enjoyLEPIDUS. Noble Antony,
warm, nourished them into life.  A Swallow, observing what sheLEPIDUS. Noble friends,
warning:  "O unhappy creature! why should you thus, of your ownLEPIDUS. Soft, Caesar!
was congratulating himself and wagging his tail to convey hisLEPIDUS. Till I shall see you in your soldier's dress,
was crossing through the water he lost his footing, stumbled andLEPIDUS. Time calls upon's.
was done and nothing was found, they cheered the actor, andLEPIDUS. To-morrow, Caesar,
was from the pen of Maximus Planudes, a monk of Constantinople,LEPIDUS. Trouble yourselves no further. Pray you hasten
was greatly disturbed by the noise of a Grasshopper and earnestlyLEPIDUS. Well met here.
was intended, excused herself, saying, "The Wolf is accustomed toLEPIDUS. What colour is it of?
was neither wrathful, cruel, nor tyrannical, but just and gentleLEPIDUS. What manner o' thing is your crocodile?
was not safe, he flew toward him and with his talons snatched aLEPIDUS. Worthily spoken, Maecenas.
was physically damaged when you received it, you may return itLEPIDUS. Y'have strange serpents there.
was soon suffocated by the water, and his dead body floated aboutLEPIDUS. Your serpent of Egypt is bred now of your mud by the
was the matter.  While they were assembled in anxious expectationLEPIDUS. Your speech is passion;
was the sovereign ruler of all the inhabitants of the ocean.  TheLEPIDUS. Your way is shorter;
watch over his movements.  But when the Wolf, day after day, keptLaid by his side his heart-inflaming brand,
water and began to pelt them with stones.  They killed several ofLest guilty of my faults thy sweet self prove.
water within his reach and thus saved his life.Lest sorrow lend me words and words express,
water, and traversed by a country road.  The Frog that lived inLet me excuse thee, ah my love well knows,
water, flew to it with delight.  When he reached it, heLike as to make our appetite more keen
waves and said that he would reconcile their differences if theyLo as a careful huswife runs to catch,
we are, and how we prevail over even the king of beasts."  TheLooking with pretty ruth upon my pain.
we get out again from so great a depth?'Lords, Officers, Soldiers, etc., French and Florentine
we had not known who you were, and with whom you were fighting."Lose all, and more by paying too much rent
we on the contrary bend before the least breath of air, andLove alters not with his brief hours and weeks,
wearied with his long journey.  He sat down by the wayside, andLove is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
weight of his load much diminished, brayed triumphantly as if heLove is too young to know what conscience is,
well advanced in years.  The elder woman, ashamed to be courtedLove's eye is not so true as all men's: no,
well and made off as fast as he could.  When the Goat upbraidedLove's not Time's fool, though rosy lips and cheeks
well away, the Fox departed without taking any notice of theM. AEMILIUS LEPIDUS,     "
well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that heMAECENAS,   friend to Caesar
well.  While he lamented and bewailed his sores and bruises, andMAECENAS. Caesar must think
went to look at daily.  One of his workmen observed his frequentMAECENAS. Eight wild boars roasted whole at a breakfast, and but
were accustomed to give the Fables of Aesop as an exercise toMAECENAS. He'll never yield to that.
were an enemy.  When the Ass saw that the huge beast could beMAECENAS. If beauty, wisdom, modesty, can settle
were despised, the Owl attacked the chatterer by a stratagem.MAECENAS. If it might please you to enforce no further
were heard, and crowds of people came from all parts to see whatMAECENAS. Let Rome be thus
were most renowned for their family descent, strength, andMAECENAS. Now Antony must leave her utterly.
were none left to croak upon the lake.MAECENAS. She's a most triumphant lady, if report be square to her.
were terrified at the splash occasioned by its fall and hidMAECENAS. This in the public eye?
were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero'sMAECENAS. We have cause to be glad that matters are so well
were to forego my present certain gain."MAECENAS. We shall,
were willing to help him in punishing the Stag.  The man repliedMAECENAS. Welcome from Egypt, sir.
what I deserve; for I, who am only a butcher, should not haveMAECENAS. Welcome, dear madam.
what had happened said:  "Hark ye, old fellow, why, in striving toMARDIAN,      "     "      "
what it was the Bear had whispered in his ear.  "He gave me thisMARDIAN. As well as I can, madam.
what we do is useful, the glory of it is vain."MARDIAN. Dead.
whatever else you can think of.  Money should be paid to "Pro-MARDIAN. Death of one person can be paid but once,
whatever she should ask.  She therefore besought him, saying,MARDIAN. No, Antony;
wheat.  The brood had almost grown to their full strength andMARDIAN. Not in deed, madam; for I can do nothing
wheels sank down deep into a rut.  The rustic driver, stupefiedMARDIAN. What's your Highness' pleasure?
wheels, my man.  Goad on your bullocks, and never more pray to meMARDIAN. Yes, gracious madam.
wheels.MARIANA, neighbour and friend to the Widow
when a great rout overwhelmed the Mice, who scampered off as fastMARIANA. And your courtesy, for a ring-carrier!
when he saw a Scorpion, and mistaking him for a locust, reachedMARIANA. Come, let's return again, and suffice ourselves with the
when occasion called him one day into the city, he left the sheepMARIANA. He's shrewdly vex'd at something.
when poultry will fetch the highest price, so that by the end ofMARIANA. I know that knave, hang him! one Parolles; a filthy
when she recovered her sight and saw none of her goods in herMARIANA. The gods forbid else!
when the Mice further debated who among them should thus "bellMARK ANTONY,         Triumvirs
when you go away."MENAS,      friend to Pompey
where he had no chance of reaching her.  He called to her andMENAS. All men's faces are true, whatsome'er their hands are.
where she might litter.  When her request was granted, sheMENAS. And thus it may be. Come, sir, will you aboard? I have a
where to strike.  He then condemned the work of Jupiter, becauseMENAS. And you by land.
whereupon the two Mice, more frightened than before, ran away andMENAS. And you by land.
wherever he went.  Thinking it a mark of distinction, the DogMENAS. But entertain it,
whether it is the cub of a Fox, or the whelp of a Wolf, but thisMENAS. Caesar and Lepidus
whether these attacks of howling were inflicted on me as aMENAS. Come, let's away.                                Exeunt
which I may dance."  The Wolf complied, and while he was pipingMENAS. Come.
which Julianus Titianus, a contemporary writer of no great name,MENAS. Enobarbus, welcome!
which constitute the charm and excellency of true Aesopian fable.MENAS. For my part, I am sorry it is turn'd to a drinking.
which decorated his skin.  But the Fox, interrupting him, said,MENAS. From Silvius, sir.
which have proved my destruction."MENAS. Hoo! Noble Captain, come.                        Exeunt
which he grasped at in the water, because it was a shadow; andMENAS. I cannot hope
which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by oneMENAS. I have ever held my cap off to thy fortunes.
which is 10% of the expected number of computer users by the endMENAS. I think the policy of that purpose made more in the marriage
which may or may not bear a special reference to the hearer, orMENAS. No slander: they steal hearts.
which the Lion jeeringly replied, "It was righteously yours, eh?MENAS. No, Pompey, I have kept me from the cup.
which the Mouse said, "The great do not always prevail.  ThereMENAS. No, to my cabin.
which the new animal left all the others and at once joined theMENAS. Nor what I have done by water.
which the weak shall take their place with impunity by the sideMENAS. Pray ye, sir?
which they greedily seized while taking no notice of the grain.MENAS. The third part, then, is drunk. Would it were all,
which treatment the Eagle was weighed down with grief.  Later,MENAS. Then is Caesar and he for ever knit together.
which would fly faster than the wings of the Birds themselves.MENAS. These three world-sharers, these competitors,
which you are exposed:  for if you did not make such excellentMENAS. True, sir; she was the wife of Caius Marcellus.
while I purposed to hunt another, I am myself fallen unawaresMENAS. We have, sir.
while filling it with water, pretended to mix poison with theMENAS. Who would not have his wife so?
while she no longer gives them advice, but in solitude lamentsMENAS. Why?
whip lustily about his shoulders and said, "O you perverseMENAS. Wilt thou be lord of all the world?
who are able to discern them.MENAS. Wilt thou be lord of the whole world? That's twice.
who bound him by strong ropes to the ground. The Mouse, recognizing hisMENAS. Y'have said, sir. We look'd not for Mark Antony here. Pray
who can."MENAS. [Aside to POMPEY] Forsake thy seat, I do beseech thee,
who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protestMENAS. [Aside to POMPEY] If for the sake of merit thou wilt hear
who had seen it all happen told him to be of good courage and notMENAS. [Aside to POMPEY] Pompey, a word.
who injured me."MENAS. [Aside] For this,
who might heal him.  A friend, meeting him and learning what heMENAS. [Aside] Thy father, Pompey, would ne'er have made this
who revilest me; but this mischance which has befallen me."MENECRATES,    "    "    "
who saw him do it and whom he could call as witnesses.  One ofMENECRATES. Know, worthy Pompey,
who was sent on an embassy to Venice by the Byzantine EmperorMENECRATES. We, ignorant of ourselves,
whole Body quickly became debilitated, and the hands, feet,MESSENGER. And I do think she's thirty.
whom he sought to make his prey.  An archer, who saw the EagleMESSENGER. And friends with Caesar.
whom no one could employ to make even the shoes for their feet."MESSENGER. Antony
whom they stole, and got off as fast as they could.  UponMESSENGER. At your noble pleasure.                        Exit
wife, the Frogs lifted up their voices in clamor to the sky.MESSENGER. Ay, dread Queen.
will allot the prize to my son, but this I do know, that he is atMESSENGER. Ay.
will conquer."  The Gnat, having sounded his horn, fastenedMESSENGER. Brown, madam; and her forehead
will enjoy them in common, till we all are surfeited."  The DogsMESSENGER. But yet, madam-
will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of theMESSENGER. Caesar and he are greater friends than ever.
will find means to provide myself with meat."  "Yes," said theMESSENGER. Caesar, I bring thee word
will furnish us with shelter and food."  The other replied withMESSENGER. First, madam, he is well.
will give you, in his or its discretion, a replacement copy ofMESSENGER. For the best turn i' th' bed.
willing to save it at the cost of betraying your friends andMESSENGER. Free, madam! No; I made no such report.
willingly add a full-grown Bull to the Calf I have lost, if I mayMESSENGER. Fulvia thy wife first came into the field.
wind, I will beat you in a race."  The Hare, believing herMESSENGER. Good madam, hear me.
wings and put him into his poultry-yard with the other birds, atMESSENGER. Good madam, patience.
winter."MESSENGER. Gracious madam,
winter."MESSENGER. He's married, madam.
wish to retain the fruits of his own sport."MESSENGER. He's married, madam.
wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found toMESSENGER. I crave your Highness' pardon.
wishes?'MESSENGER. I have done my duty.
wishing to take his fleece and to avoid expense, she sheared himMESSENGER. Labienus-
with a long narrow mouth, so that he could easily insert his neckMESSENGER. Madam,
with a slow but steady pace straight to the en