













Exeunt
Exeunt
[Dies]
[Kneels]
fall down]
a Talbot!']
[They go up]
Exit FASTOLFE
Exit, guarded
[Strikes him]
[They depart]
Alarum. Exeunt
EXETER, VERNON
Exit SALISBURY
[Gazes on her]
[Stabbing him]
[Stabbing him]
Exit BUCKINGHAM
[Drum afar off]
Exeunt severally
Flourish. Exeunt
Flourish. Exeunt
[A noise within]
[A short alarum]
[Skirmish again]
and WESTMORELAND
Exit an attendant
[Alarum afar off]
[GOVERNOR kneels]
[Here they fight]
[Retreat sounded]
[The KING swoons]
Exit into the town
Exit with the body
Exit with the body
[A march afar off]
[They fight again]
Exeunt all but YORK
Exeunt some of them
Exeunt the YORKISTS
with their servants
Exeunt all but EXETER
[Lets the paper fall]
[Drum sounds afar off]
Exit servant with PETER
[A short alarum within]
[Putting on a red rose]
[They hang their heads]
Exit WALTER with SUFFOLK
Sound a flourish. Exeunt
[Coming from the throne]
[They shake their heads]
[Tears the supplications]
[They walk and speak not]
[Trumpets sound a parley]
soldiers show themselves]
Exeunt SUFFOLK and WARWICK
[Here they skirmish again]
[YORK occupies the throne]
Exeunt GLOUCESTER and EXETER
Exeunt REIGNIER and MARGARET
Exeunt WARWICK and SALISBURY
Exit REIGNIER from the walls
Exit TALBOT. Alarum; retreat
Exit, forced off by soldiers
Exeunt GOVERNOR and his train
Exit SALISBURY with the commons
[Sennet. Here they come down]
Exeunt BUCKINGHAM and SOMERSET
Exeunt GLOUCESTER and servants
Exeunt GLOUCESTER and MESSENGER
Exeunt KING, QUEEN, and SUFFOLK
Exeunt MAYOR, BEADLE, WIFE, &c.
[Alarum. Here another skirmish]
[They fight and CLIFFORD falls]
[Throwing down SOMERSET'S head]
Exeunt NORTHUMBERLAND, CLIFFORD,
Exeunt all but QUEEN and SUFFOLK
[He stamps with his foot and the
SCENE 2.
SCENE 4.
SCENE 4.
SCENE 5.
SCENE 7.
[LA PUCELLE, &c., enter the town]
Exeunt all but the FIRST GENTLEMAN
ORLEANS
SCENE 2.
SCENE 5.
[A noise again: 'Stones! Stones!']
march
'A miracle!'
Enter IDEN
SCENE 2.
SCENE 2.
SCENE 3.
SCENE 3.
SCENE 4.
SCENE 5.
SCENE 5.
SCENE 6.
SCENE 6.
[Putting a paper crown on his head]
Enter a SCOUT
Exeunt QUEEN MARGARET and the PRINCE
SCENE 3.
SCENE 4.
and others
their hats
Enter HUME
Enter MICHAEL
Enter SUFFOLK
Enter VAUX
Exeunt CARDINAL, SOMERSET, and others
Exeunt the TWO STAFFORDS and soldiers
Re-enter SUFFOLK
and a CAPTAIN
and others
clothes behind
Before Orleans
Enter FIENDS
Enter LA PUCELLE
Enter SOMERSET
Enter YORK
Enter a HERALD
Enter a MESSENGER
Enter a MESSENGER
Enter a MESSENGER
Enter a POST
JOAN LA PUCELLE
SCENE 3.
SCENE 3.
SCENE 4.
and forces
and many commons
A field of battle
Before Angiers
Enter BUCKINGHAM
Enter BUCKINGHAM
Enter GLOUCESTER
Enter SALISBURY
Enter a BEADLE with whips
Flourish. Exeunt all but YORK, WARWICK,
HERALD preceding
London. The palace
Sennet. Flourish. Exeunt all but EXETER
WOODVILLE the Lieutenant speaks within]
[They lay hands on YORK, who struggles]
a torch burning
his forces
Enter A MESSENGER
Exeunt all but WINCHESTER and the LEGATE
France. Before Bordeaux
France. Before Orleans
Re-enter SALISBURY
[She gives the DUCHESS a box on the ear]
Enter SIR WILLIAM LUCY
Enter SUFFOLK and QUEEN
Enter VERNON and BASSET
Enter a MESSENGER
Enter a serving-man
France. Plains in Anjou
OF ORLEANS and his BOY
The Tower of London
WITCH, SOUTHWELL and BOLINGBROKE, guarded
in blue coats
AUVERGNE. The Castle
Another part of the field
Enter OLD CLIFFORD
Enter SIR WILLIAM LUCY
Enter a MESSENGER
Enter another MESSENGER
France. Before Rouen
ORLEANS. Within the town
Plains in Gascony
Re-enter GLOUCESTER
Re-enter PORTER With keys
Re-enter one with the heads
The plains near Rouen
and CHARLES fly
Enter CLIFFORD and his SON
Enter RICHARD PLANTAGENET
Enter YOUNG CLIFFORD
Enter a MESSENGER
Enter the DUKE OF YORK
GLOUCESTER and EXETER
LA PUCELLE, and forces
Other plains of Gascony
Paris. The palace
Re-enter YOUNG CLIFFORD
TALBOT'S with him
[Here they shoot and SALISBURY and GARGRAVE
half ready and half unready
his soldiers, TALBOT
Enter CHARLES and LA PUCELLE
Enter IDEN, with CADE's head
Enter SIR JOHN FASTOLFE
Enter TALBOT and JOHN his son
Enter a SOLDIER, running
Enter the QUEEN and SOMERSET
Exeunt, severally, GLOUCESTER and WINCHESTER
[CHARLES and the rest give tokens of fealty]
is taken. The French fly
Enter TALBOT, with trump and drum
Enter YORK, WARWICK, and others
Enter in Cardinal's habit
London. The Temple garden
MESSENGER meets him
REIGNIER, LA PUCELLE, and forces
The English camp near Bordeaux
Winds his horn; drums strike up;
and his men in tawny coats
Camp of the DUKE OF YORK in Anjou
Enter CLIFFORD and soldiers
Enter the KING, and attendants
Exit GLOUCESTER. The QUEEN drops QUEEN her fan
LONDON and his OFFICERS
Re-enter the BASTARD OF ORLEANS with
[A noise within: 'Down with the tawny coats!']
[GLOUCESTER'S men rush at the Tower gates, and
[Here SALISBURY lifteth himself up and groans]
[Here an alarum, and it thunders and lightens]
a peal of ordnance. Enter soldiers
about, and TALBOT rescues him
and PRENTICES drinking to him
his brother, with drum and soldiers
BUCKINGHAM with guard, and break in
Enter DUCHESS aloft, followed by HUME
GENERAL OF THE FRENCH, and others
[Alarum. They fight and PETER strikes him down]
[Here they fight and JOAN LA PUCELLE overcomes]
[The English party whisper together in council]
and REIGNIER, on the walls
his WIFE and a multitude following
CARDINAL, SOMERSET, with attendants
Drum. Enter CADE, DICK THE BUTCHER, SMITH
Enter GEORGE BEVIS, with the LORD SAY
Enter SIR HUMPHREY STAFFORD and WILLIAM
Enter the BOY with a linstock
Enter the MAYOR OF LONDON, attended
Exeunt GAOLERS, hearing out the body of MORTIMER
Exeunt, above, DUCHESS and HUME, guarded; below,
London. Before the Tower gates
REIGNIER, ALENCON, and soldiers
Re-enter WHITMORE with SUFFOLK'S body
Trumpets sound. Enter REIGNIER below
at a distance, TALBOT and his forces
Alarum. Enter an ENGLISH SOLDIER, crying
Bed put forth with the body. Enter WARWICK
Enter BUCKINGHAM and old CLIFFORD
Enter CARDINAL BEAUFORT, attended
Enter EDWARD and RICHARD PLANTAGENET
Enter the COUNTESS and her PORTER
Enter the DUKE OF YORK and the DUKE OF
Enter the EARLS OF WARWICK and SALISBURY
Enter, on the walls, the MASTER-GUNNER
Noise within. Enter WARWICK, SALISBURY,
STANLEY, the SHERIFF, and OFFICERS
WINCHESTER, with bloody pates
bearing Simpcox between two in a chair;
the PRINCE OF WALES, and soldiers
Alarum, excursions. Enter LA PUCELLE
An alarum. Enter TALBOT in an excursion
Enter CHARLES, BURGUNDY, ALENCON, BASTARD,
Enter LA PUCELLE, guarded, and a SHEPHERD
Enter SIR JOHN and SIR HUGH MORTIMER
Enter some, bringing in the CLERK OF CHATHAM
Sennet. Flourish. Exeunt all but VERNON and BASSET
WARWICK, and the DUCHESS OF GLOUCESTER
Enter LA PUCELLE, on the top, thrusting out
Enter TALBOT, BEDFORD, BURGUNDY, and forces,
Exeunt the DUCHESS and the other prisoners, guarded
SUFFOLK, SOMERSET, WARWICK, EXETER,
Sound trumpets. Enter the KING, the QUEEN,
THE WEAVER, and a SAWYER, with infinite numbers
Trumpet sounds a parley. Enter, aloft, the
[A short alarum; then enter the town with soldiers]
[As the SPIRIT speaks, SOUTHWELL writes the answer]
[The English scale the walls and cry 'Saint George!
'A Talbot! A Talbot!' They fly, leaving their
Enter BUCKINGHAM and old CLIFFORD, attended
Enter CHARLES, ALENCON, BURGUNDY, BASTARD,
Enter QUEEN MARGARET and the PRINCE OF WALES
Enter SIR WILLIAM Lucy, attended; a FRENCH
Enter SUFFOLK, in conference with the KING,
Enter TALBOT, BEDFORD, BURGUNDY, a CAPTAIN,
French march. Enter the DUKE OF BURGUNDY and
SIR WILLIAM GLANSDALE, SIR THOMAS GARGRAVE,
[BEDFORD dies and is carried in by two in his chair]
and a taper burning in her hand, with SIR JOHN
like countrymen, with sacks upon their backs
After the BEADLE hath hit him once, he leaps over
An alarum; excursions. Enter SIR JOHN FASTOLFE,
Enter the MAYOR OF SAINT ALBANS and his brethren,
Enter, several ways, BASTARD, ALENCON, REIGNIER,
RICHARD PLANTAGENET, VERNON, and another LAWYER
Sound a parley. Enter REIGNIER on the walls
The French leap o'er the walls in their shirts.
VERNON, BASSET, and others. To them, with
the stool and runs away; and they follow and cry
Alarum. Enter SUFFOLK, with MARGARET in his hand
An alarum. Re-enter TALBOT, BURGUNDY, and the rest
BOLINGBROKE or SOUTHWELL reads: 'Conjuro te,' &c.
Enter SALISBURY and TALBOT on the turrets, with
Enter the DUCHESS OF GLOUCESTER in a white sheet,
Excursions. Enter French and English, fighting.
Exeunt against the town all but BEDFORD and attendants
Here sound an English march. Enter, and pass over
Sound a sennet. Enter the KING, DUKE HUMPHREY,
a chair. Enter TALBOT and BURGUNDY without;
with scaling-ladders; their drums beating a dead
Alarum: excursions wherein JOHN TALBOT is hemm'd
Enter MORTIMER, brought in a chair, and GAOLERS
Enter QUEEN MARGARET, CLIFFORD, NORTHUMBERLAND,
Enter a TOWNSMAN of Saint Albans, crying 'A miracle!'
Enter soldiers, bearing the body of JOHN TALBOT
Enter the EARLS OF SOMERSET, SUFFOLK, and WARWICK;
Enter the KING, GLOUCESTER, WINCHESTER, YORK,
Here GLOUCESTER'S men beat out the CARDINAL'S
Here an alarum again, and TALBOT pursueth the
LA PUCELLE and YORK fight hand to hand; LA PUCELLE
NEIGHBOURS, drinking to him so much that he is
Retreat; excursions. LA PUCELLE, ALENCON,
within, LA PUCELLE, CHARLES, BASTARD, ALENCON,
An alarum; excursions. BEDFORD brought in sick in
BEAUFORT, the PAPAL LEGATE, and two AMBASSADORS
Enter CHARLES, ALENCON, BASTARD, REIGNIER, and others
Enter CHARLES, BASTARD, ALENCON, REIGNIER, and forces
Enter CHARLES, the BASTARD, ALENCON, LA PUCELLE,
Enter HORNER, the Armourer, and his man PETER, guarded
Enter SOMERSET, With his forces; an OFFICER of
Enter YORK, with trumpet and many soldiers. A
Enter at one door, HORNER, the Armourer, and his
Enter in skirmish, the retainers of GLOUCESTER and
Fight. Excursions. Enter KING, QUEEN, and others
Flourish. Enter on the walls, LA PUCELLE, CHARLES,
WESTMORELAND, EXETER, and others, with red roses in
drunk; and he enters with a drum before him and
men; and enter in the hurly burly the MAYOR OF
other door PETER, his man, with a drum and sandbag,
Alarum; excursions. Enter old TALBOT led by a SERVANT
Enter LA PUCELLE disguis'd, with four soldiers dressed
Enter RICHARD and SOMERSET to fight. SOMERSET is killed
Enter the DUKE OF GLOUCESTER, with his serving-men
Enter to the PROTECTOR at the Tower gates WINCHESTER
Flourish. Enter KING HENRY, CLIFFORD, NORTHUMBERLAND,
Re-enter SUFFOLK and WARWICK, with their weapons drawn
driving Englishmen before her. Then enter TALBOT
his staff with a sand-bag fastened to it; and at the
DAUPHIN and driveth him. Then enter JOAN LA PUCELLE
Item: That the duchy of Anjou and the county of Maine shall be
forc'd?
if thou dar'st,
matter;
shall know your mind.
two-hand sword.
CARDINAL BEAUFORT, BUCKINGHAM, YORK, SOMERSET, SALISBURY,
Enter, below, multitudes, with halters about their necks
It thunders and lightens terribly; then the SPIRIT riseth]
[Here they do the ceremonies belonging, and make the circle;
'A staff is quickly found to beat a dog.'
'Aio te, Aeacida, Romanos vincere posse.'
'By water shall he die and take his end.'
'Gainst thee, fell Clifford, and thee, false Frenchwoman.
'If once he come to be a cardinal,
'Jesu maintain your royal excellence!'
'Let him shun castles;
'Tell me what fate awaits the Duke of Suffolk?'
'The duke yet lives that Henry shall depose;
'Thou maiden youth, be vanquish'd by a maid.'
'Tis beauty that doth oft make women proud;
'Tis but surmis'd whiles thou art standing by,
'Tis but the short'ning of my life one day.
'Tis government that makes them seem divine;
'Tis known to you he is mine enemy;
'Tis like you would not feast him like a friend;
'Tis like, my lord, you will not keep your hour.
'Tis meet he be condemn'd by course of law.
'Tis meet that lucky ruler be employ'd,
'Tis much when sceptres are in children's hands;
'Tis not enough our foes are this time fled,
'Tis not for fear but anger that thy cheeks
'Tis not his wont to be the hindmost man,
'Tis not my speeches that you do mislike,
'Tis not the land I care for, wert thou thence;
'Tis said the stout Parisians do revolt
'Tis that they seek; and they, in seeking that,
'Tis the French Dauphin sueth to thee thus.
'Tis thine they give away, and not their own.
'Tis to be fear'd they all will follow him.
'Tis virtue that doth make them most admir'd;
'Twas full of darnel-do you like the taste?
'Twas men I lack'd, and you will give them me;
'Twas neither Charles nor yet the Duke I nam'd,
'Twill make them cool in zeal unto your Grace.
'What shall betide the Duke of Somerset?'
A Roman sworder and banditto slave
A bird that will revenge upon you all;
A braver soldier never couched lance,
A crown for York!-and, lords, bow low to him.
A cunning man did calculate my birth
A day will come when York shall claim his own;
A gentler heart did never sway in court;
A goodly prize, fit for the devil's grace!
A heart it was, bound in with diamonds-
A heart unspotted is not easily daunted.
A holy prophetess new risen up,
A hundred times and oft'ner, in my sleep,
A letter was deliver'd to my hands,
A little herd of England's timorous deer,
A man of great authority in France,
A man of thy profession and degree;
A man that ne'er saw in his life before.
A phoenix that shall make all France afeard.
A piece of ordnance 'gainst it I have plac'd;
A poor earl's daughter is unequal odds,
A poor esquire of Kent that loves his king.
A pretty plot, well chosen to build upon!
A prophet to the fall of all our foes!
A sceptre shall it have, have I a soul
A sceptre, or an earthly sepulchre!'
A second Hector, for his grim aspect
A sorry breakfast for my Lord Protector.
A sort of naughty persons, lewdly bent,
A spirit rais'd from depth of underground
A statelier pyramis to her I'll rear
A stouter champion never handled sword.
A terrible and unavoided danger;
A thousand souls to death and deadly night.
A tomb, wherein his corpse shall be interr'd;
A virgin from her tender infancy,
A virgin, and his servant, say to him.
A wilderness is populous enough,
A witch by fear, not force, like Hannibal,
A woman clad in armour chaseth them.
A woman's general; what should we fear?
A world of earthly blessings to my soul,
ALENCON. We'll set thy statue in some holy place,
Able to ravish any dull conceit;
About a certain question in the law
About relieving of the sentinels.
Above the felon or what trespass else.
Above the reach or compass of thy thought?
According as I gave directions?
According to that state you shall be us'd.
Accursed tower! accursed fatal hand
Adorn his temples with a coronet
Advance our half-fac'd sun, striving to shine,
Adventure to be banished myself;
After some respite will return to Calais;
After that things are set in order here,
After the slaughter of so many peers,
After this golden day of victory. Flourish.           Exeunt
Again, in pity of my hard distress,
Against my king and nephew, virtuous Henry,
Against my lord the Duke of Somerset.
Against proud Somerset and William Pole,
Against the senseless winds shalt grin in vain,
Against this proud Protector with my sword!
Against thy oath and true allegiance sworn,
Aged contusions and all brush of time
Agree to any covenants; and procure
Agrees not with the leanness of his purse.
Ah, Gloucester, hide thee from their hateful looks,
Ah, Humphrey, can I bear this shameful yoke?
Ah, Humphrey, this dishonour in thine age
Ah, Joan, sweet daughter Joan, I'll die with thee!
Ah, gentle Clifford, kill me with thy sword,
Ah, hark! The fatal followers do pursue,
Ah, let me live in prison all my days;
Ah, sancta majestas! who would not buy thee dear?
Ah, that my fear were false! ah, that it were!
Ah, tutor, look where bloody Clifford comes!
Ah, uncle Humphrey, in thy face I see
Ah, wretched man! Would I had died a maid,
Alas, he hath no home, no place to fly to;
Alas, poor York! but that I hate thee deadly,
Alas, this is a child, a silly dwarf!
Alencon, Reignier, compass him about,
Alive again? Then show me where he is;
All long of this vile traitor Somerset.
All scholars, lawyers, courtiers, gentlemen,
All the Talbots in the world, to save my life.          Exit
All these and more we hazard by thy stay;
All these are sav'd if thou wilt fly away.
All these could not procure me any scathe
All will be ours, now bloody Talbot's slain.          Exeunt
All, away!
Although by his sight his sin be multiplied.
Although in glorious titles he excel.
Although the Duke was enemy to him,
Although the kite soar with unbloodied beak?
Although thou hast been conduct of my shame.
Although we fancy not the Cardinal,
Although ye hale me to a violent death.
Although you break it when your pleasure serves.
Am I a queen in title and in style,
Am I not witch'd like her? Or thou not false like him?
Am sure I scar'd the Dauphin and his trull,
Among the people gather up a tenth.
Among which terms he us'd his lavish tongue
Amongst his subjects and his loyal friends,
An age of discord and continual strife?
An if I fly, I am not Talbot's son;
An if your Grace mark every circumstance,
An suffer you to breathe in fruitful peace,
An't like your lordly Lord's Protectorship.
And 'tis well seen he found an enemy.
And God in justice hath reveal'd to us
And Henry born at Windsor should lose all.
And Henry put apart, the next for me.                   Exit
And Henry, though he be infortunate,
And Humphrey Duke of Gloucester scarce himself,
And Humphrey is no little man in England.
And Humphrey with the peers be fall'n at jars;
And I am faint and cannot fly their fury;
And I am louted by a traitor villain
And I am sent to tell his Majesty
And I have heard it said unbidden guests
And I may live to do you kindness if
And I proclaim'd a coward through the world.
And I should rob the deathsman of his fee,
And I to make thee mad do mock thee thus.
And I will answer unpremeditated.
And I will chain these legs and arms of thine
And I with tears do wash the blood away.
And I'll direct thee how thou shalt escape
And I'll provide his executioner-
And I'll withdraw me and my bloody power;
And I, as sure as English Henry lives
And Sir John Stanley is appointed now
And Somerset, we will commit thee thither
And Suffolk's cloudy brow his stormy hate;
And Talbot perisheth by your default.
And William de la Pole, first Duke of Suffolk.
And York, and impious Beaufort, that false priest,
And after summer evermore succeeds
And all by thee. Away! convey him hence.
And all my followers to the eager foe
And all that poets feign of bliss and joy.
And all the peers and nobles of the realm
And all the priests and friars in my realm
And all the troops of English after him.
And all the wealthy kingdoms of the west,
And all to have the noble Duke alive.
And all to make away my guiltless life.
And all together, with the Duke of Suffolk,
And answer was return'd that he will come.
And are the cities that I got with wounds
And as I thrust thy body in with my sword,
And as his father here was conqueror,
And as my duty springs, so perish they
And as the butcher takes away the calf,
And as the dam runs lowing up and down,
And ask him what's the reason of these arms.
And at his pleasure will resign my place.
And ban thine enemies, both mine and thine!
And banished I am, if but from thee.
And bashful Henry depos'd, whose cowardice
And be you silent and attentive too,
And bear the name and port of gentlemen?
And bears his thoughts above his falcon's pitch.
And beauty, that the tyrant oft reclaims,
And bid me be advised how I tread.
And bid mine eyes be packing with my heart,
And bid them blow towards England's blessed shore,
And binds the wretch, and beats it when it strays,
And bite thy tongue that slanders him with cowardice
And boding screech-owls make the consort full!
And buzz these conjurations in her brain.
And by his treason stand'st not thou attainted,
And call these foul offenders to their answers,
And call'd them blind and dusky spectacles
And call'd unto a cardinal's degree?
And calls your Grace usurper, openly,
And can do nought but wail her darling's loss,
And cannot help the noble chevalier.
And care not who they sting in his revenge.
And caterpillars eat my leaves away;
And change misdoubt to resolution;
And charge that no man should disturb your rest,
And charity chas'd hence by rancour's hand;
And choke the herbs for want of husbandry.
And chop away that factious pate of his.
And comment then upon his sudden death.
And common profit of his country!
And could command no more content than I?
And could it not enforce them to relent
And creep into it far before thy time?
And cried 'A crown, or else a glorious tomb!
And cry out for thee to close up mine eyes,
And dare not take up arms like gentlemen.
And dead men's cries do fill the empty air,
And death approach not ere my tale be done.
And did my brother Bedford toil his wits
And did upbraid me with my father's death;
And die in bands for this unmanly deed!
And dimm'd mine eyes, that I can read no further.
And disinherited thine only son.
And do him homage as obedient subjects,
And do not stand on quillets how to slay him;
And do some service to Duke Humphrey's ghost.
And dogged York, that reaches at the moon,
And doth deserve a coronet of gold.
And duly waited for my coming forth.
And each of them had twenty times their power,
And equity exil'd your Highness' land.
And ere that we will suffer such a prince,
And even as willingly at thy feet I leave it
And even now my burden'd heart would break,
And even since then hath Richard been obscur'd,
And even these three days have I watch'd
And even with this I lost fair England's view,
And every drop cries vengeance for his death
And fall on my side so, against your will.
And fashion'd thee that instrument of ill,
And feast and banquet in the open streets
And fight against that monstrous rebel Cade,
And fightest with the sword of Deborah.
And find no harbour in a royal heart.
And fitter is my study and my books
And fly would Talbot never, though he might.
And follow'd with a rabble that rejoice
And for a minister of my intent
And for alliance sake, declare the cause
And for dissension, who preferreth peace
And for my wife I know not how it stands.
And for myself- foe as he was to me-
And for that cause I train'd thee to my house.
And for those wrongs, those bitter injuries,
And for thy sake have I shed many a tear.
And for thy treachery, what's more manifest
And force perforce I'll make him yield the crown,
And fought so long tiff that his thighs with darts
And free my country from calamity
And from his bosom purge this black despair!
And from my shoulders crack my arms asunder,
And from the great and new-made Duke of Suffolk;
And from the pride of Gallia rescued thee.
And full as oft came Edward to my side
And girt thee with the sword. Cousin of York,
And giv'n unto the house of York such head
And give her as a prey to law and shame,
And give him chastisement for this abuse.
And give me signs of future accidents;             [Thunder]
And give them burial as beseems their worth.
And given me notice of their villainies.
And go in peace, Humphrey, no less belov'd
And go we to attire you for our journey.
And greatness of his place be grief to us,
And grumbling York; and not the least of these
And had I first been put to speak my mind,
And had I not been cited so by them,
And had I twenty times so many foes,
And had his Highness in his infancy
And hang thee o'er my tomb when I am dead.
And happiness to his accomplices!
And hardly understood.
And hath detain'd me all my flow'ring youth
And have install'd me in the diadem;
And have no other reason for this wrong
And have no portion in the choice myself.
And have our bodies slaught'red by thy foes.
And have thee reverenc'd like a blessed saint.
And having both together heav'd it up,
And he a prince, and ruler of the land;
And he but naked, though lock'd up in steel,
And he first took exceptions at this badge,
And he that brings his head unto the King
And he that loos'd them forth their brazen caves;
And heir apparent to the English crown.
And hell too strong for me to buckle with.
And hemm'd about with grim destruction.
And her attainture will be Humphrey's fall
And here I prophesy: this brawl to-day,
And here advance it in the market-place,
And here at hand the Dauphin and his train
And here commit you to my Lord Cardinal
And here pronounce free pardon to them all
And him to Pomfret, where, as all you know,
And his achievements of no less account.
And his advantage following your decease-
And how the English have the suburbs won.
And humble service till the point of death.
And humbly now upon my bended knee,
And humbly thus, with halters on their necks,
And hung their rotten coffins up in chains,
And if I did but stir out of my bed,
And if mine arm be heaved in the air,
And if my death might make this island happy
And if thine eyes can water for his death,
And if thou be not then created York,
And if thou dost not hide thee from the bear,
And if thou tell'st the heavy story right,
And if thou vanquishest, thy words are true;
And if we did but glance a far-off look
And if you love me, as you say you do,
And ill beseeming any common man,
And in a moment makes them desolate.
And in a vision full of majesty
And in defence of my lord's worthiness,
And in her heart she scorns our poverty;
And in his bosom spend my latter gasp.
And in his simple show he harbours treason.
And in my conscience do repute his Grace
And in my standard bear the arms of York,
And in our coronation take your place.
And in reguerdon of that duty done
And in submission will attend on her.
And in that chair where kings and queens were crown'd;
And in that hope I throw mine eyes to heaven,
And in that sea of blood my boy did drench
And in the end being rescu'd, I have seen
And in this private plot be we the first
And in thy need such comfort come to thee
And in thy reverence and thy chair-days thus
And in thy sight to die, what were it else
And in thy sons, fair slips of such a stock.
And in thy thought o'errun my former time;
And is a pattern of celestial peace.
And issue forth and bid them battle straight.
And it hath pleas'd Him that three times to-day
And join'd with Charles, the rightful King of France.'
And join'st with them will be thy slaughtermen.
And keep me on the side where still I am.
And keep not back your powers in dalliance.
And keep the Frenchmen in allegiance.
And kept asunder. You, madam, shall with us.
And kill the innocent gazer with thy sight;
And kneel for grace and mercy at my feet;
And know the office that belongs to such.
And know us by these colours for thy foes
And large proportion of his strong-knit limbs.
And lay new platforms to endamage them.
And lay them gently on thy tender side.
And least proportion of humanity.
And leave not one alive, I live in hell.
And left behind him Richard, his only son,
And left thee to the mercy of the law.
And left us to the rage of France his sword.
And let her head fall into England's lap.
And let my sovereign, virtuous Henry,
And let these have a day appointed them
And let thy Suffolk take his heavy leave.
And let thy tongue be equal with thy heart.
And let us all to meditation.                         Exeunt
And like a hermit overpass'd thy days.
And like a hungry lion did commence
And like a mountain not to be remov'd.
And like a peacock sweep along his tail;
And like a thief to come to rob my grounds,
And like as rigour of tempestuous gusts
And like me to the peasant boys of France,
And like rich hangings in a homely house,
And like true subjects, sons of your progenitors,
And listen after Humphrey, how he proceeds.
And live alone as secret as I may.
And lofty proud encroaching tyranny-
And look thyself be faultless, thou wert best.
And lowly words were ransom for their fault.
And made a preachment of your high descent?
And made a prey for carrion kites and crows
And made an evening at the noontide prick.
And made him to resign his crown perforce.
And made me almost yield upon my knees.
And made me climb, With danger of my life.
And make a quagmire of your mingled brains.
And make a show of love to proud Duke Humphrey,
And make my image but an alehouse sign.
And make the cowards stand aloof at bay.
And make the meanest of you earls and dukes?
And make thee curse the harvest of that corn.
And make this marriage to be solemniz'd.
And makes him roar these accusations forth.
And makes it fearful and degenerate;
And manacle the berard in their chains,
And may enjoy such quiet walks as these?
And may that thought, when I imagine ill
And may ye both be suddenly surpris'd
And means to give you battle presently.
And mere instinct of love and loyalty,
And mine shall ring thy dire departure out.             Exit
And misbegotten blood I spill of thine,
And more such days as these to us befall!             Exeunt
And more than may be gathered by thy shape.
And must be made a subject to a duke?
And natural graces that extinguish art;
And neither by treason nor hostility
And never ask'd for restitution.
And never live but true unto his liege!
And never more abase our sight so low
And never mount to trouble you again.
And never of the Nevils' noble race.
And never seen thee, never borne thee son,
And never yet could frame my will to it;
And no great friend, I fear me, to the King.
And no way canst thou turn thee for redress
And nod their heads and throw their eyes on thee;
And none your foes but such as shall pretend
And not Protector of the King or realm.
And not a thought but thinks on dignity.
And not be check'd.
And not deface your honour with reproach?
And not have tide of an earldom here.
And not of any challenge of desert,
And not to grace an awful princely sceptre.
And not to seek a queen to make him rich.
And not with such a cruel threat'ning look!
And now I fear that fatal prophecy.
And now declare, sweet stem from York's great stock,
And now in England to our heart's great sorrow,
And now is York in arms to second him.
And now loud-howling wolves arouse the jades
And now no more ado, brave Burgundy,
And now the house of York- thrust from the crown
And now the matter grows to compromise
And now there rests no other shift but this
And now they meet where both their lives are done.
And now to Paris in this conquering vein!
And now, like Ajax Telamonius,
And now, my Lord Protector, view the letter
And of such great authority in France
And of thy cunning had no diffidence;
And on his son, young John, who two hours since
And on my head did set the diadem.
And on the pieces of the broken wand
And once again we'll sleep secure in Rouen.
And other of your Highness' Privy Council,
And our King Henry gives away his own
And our nobility will scorn the match.
And over the chair of state, where now he sits,
And over-joy of heart doth minister.
And pale destruction meets thee in the face.
And passeth by with stiff unbowed knee,
And peace established between these realms.
And perish ye, with your audacious prate!
And pithless arms, like to a withered vine
And plac'd a quire of such enticing birds
And pluck the crown from feeble Henry's head:
And poise the cause in justice' equal scales,
And princes' courts be fill'd with my reproach.
And prosperous be thy life in peace and war!          [Dies]
And prove the period of their tyranny,
And purchase friends, and give to courtezans,
And put the Englishmen unto the sword.
And ready are the appellant and defendant,
And reap the harvest which that rascal sow'd;
And rise created princely Duke of York.
And rob his temples of the diadem,
And run a tilt at death within a chair?
And ruthless slaughters as are daily seen
And safely brought to Dover; where inshipp'd,
And say 'Alas, it was a piteous deed!'
And say it was thy mother that thou meant'st,
And say withal I think he held the right.
And see the cities and the towns defac'd
And seeing ignorance is the curse of God,
And seeing thou dost, I here divorce myself,
And seek for sorrow with thy spectacles?
And seek how we may prejudice the foe.                Exeunt
And sees fast by a butcher with an axe,
And seiz'd upon their towns and provinces.
And sends the poor well pleased from my gate.
And sent our sons and husbands captivate.
And sent the ragged soldiers wounded home.
And set a precious crown upon thy head,
And set the triple crown upon his head;
And set this unaccustom'd fight aside.
And set upon our boasting enemy.
And shakes his head and trembling stands aloof,
And shall I fly? O, if you love my mother,
And shall I then be us'd reproachfully?
And shall these labours and these honours die?
And shame thine honourable age with blood?
And should you fall he is the next will mount;
And should, if I were worthy to be judge,
And show itself, attire me how I can.
And show'd how well you love your Prince and country.
And slew your fathers, and with colours spread
And smooth my way upon their headless necks;
And so I wish'd thy body might my heart.
And so break off; the day is almost spent.
And so conduct me where, from company,
And so farewell until I meet thee next.                 Exit
And so he comes, to rend his limbs asunder.
And so he walks, insulting o'er his prey,
And so should these, if I might have my will.
And so, farewell, for I must hence again.             Exeunt
And so, farewell; and fair be all thy hopes,
And so, my Lord Protector, see them guarded
And so, with thanks and pardon to you all,
And sold their bodies for their country's benefit,
And sooner dance upon a bloody pole
And soul with soul from France to heaven fly.         Exeunt
And spend her strength with over-matching waves.
And spirits walk and ghosts break up their graves-
And spread they shall be, to thy foul disgrace
And spurn in pieces posts of adamant;
And stablish quietness on every side.
And stands upon the honour of his birth,
And still enjoy thy regal dignity.
And still proclaimeth, as he comes along,
And stol'st away the ladies' hearts of France,
And straightway give thy soul to him thou serv'st.
And strong enough to issue out and fight.
And such a piece of service will you do,
And such high vaunts of his nobility,
And surer bind this knot of amity,
And take foul scorn to fawn on him by sending.
And tell him privily of our intent.
And temper clay with blood of Englishmen;
And ten to one is no impeach of valour.
And ten to one old Joan had not gone out.
And that I'll prove on better men than Somerset,
And that I'll write upon thy burgonet,
And that engenders thunder in his breast
And that hereafter ages may behold
And that my fainting words do warrant death.
And that my sovereign's presence makes me mild,
And that the French were almost ten to one,
And that the Lord of Westmoreland shall maintain.
And that we find the slothful watch but weak,
And that will quickly dry thy melting tears.
And that within ourselves we disagree,
And that your Majesty was an usurper.
And that's not suddenly to be perform'd,
And the Protector's wife, belov'd of him?
And the offender granted scope of speech,
And the premised flames of the last day
And then I need not crave his courtesy.
And then depart to Paris to the King,
And then do execution on the watch. Alarum.           Exeunt
And then it liv'd in sweet Elysium.
And then we'll try what these dastard Frenchmen dare.
And then your Highness shall command a peace.
And thence discover how with most advantage
And there cut off thy most ungracious head,
And therefore I will take the Nevils' parts,
And therefore am I bold and resolute.                 Exeunt
And therefore are we certainly resolv'd
And therefore by His Majesty I swear,
And therefore do they cry, though you forbid,
And therefore fortify your hold, my lord.
And therefore frame the law unto my will.
And therefore haste I to the Parliament,
And therefore in this city will I stay
And therefore may be broke without offence.
And therefore shall it charm thy riotous tongue.
And therefore take this compact of a truce,
And therefore tell her I return great thanks
And therefore yet relent and save my life.
And therefore yet relent, and save my life.
And therefore, lords, since he affects her most,
And therein reverenc'd for their lawful king.
And these dread curses, like the sun 'gainst glass,
And these grey locks, the pursuivants of death,
And they have troops of soldiers at their beck?
And they shall find dear deer of us, my friends.
And thine, Lord Clifford; and you both have vow'd revenge
And think it but a minute spent in sport.
And thinks he that the chirping of a wren,
And this fell tempest shall not cease to rage
And this her easy-held imprisonment
And this is he was his adopted heir.
And this the regal seat. Possess it, York;
And this the royalty of Albion's king?
And this thy son's blood cleaving to my blade
And thither I will send you Matthew Goffe;
And those two counties I will undertake
And thou a prince, Protector of this land,
And thou be thrust out like a fugitive?
And thou shalt find me at the Governor's.               Exit
And thou shalt find that I exceed my sex.
And thou shalt reign in quiet while thou liv'st.
And thou that art his mate make boot of this;
And thou that smil'dst at good Duke Humphrey's death
And thou thyself a shearman, art thou not?
And thought thee happy when I shook my head?
And threefold vengeance tend upon your steps!
And threw it towards thy land. The sea receiv'd it;
And thrice cried 'Courage, father! fight it out.'
And thus he would open your city gates,
And thus most humbly I do take my leave.                Exit
And till I root out their accursed line
And till thou be restor'd thou art a yeoman.
And to conclude, reproach and beggary
And to preserve my sovereign from his foe,
And to sun's parching heat display'd my cheeks,
And to survey his dead and earthy image,
And to survey the bodies of the dead.
And told me that by water I should die;
And torture him with grievous ling'ring death.
And tread it under foot with all contempt,
And trust not simple Henry nor his oaths.
And try if they can gain your liberty.
And try your hap against the Irishmen?
And tugg'd for life, and was by strength subdu'd.
And turn again unto the warlike French.
And turns the force of them upon thyself.
And twice by awkward wind from England's bank
And twit with cowardice a man half dead?
And undiscover'd come to me again
And useth it to patronage his theft.
And utter ruin of the house of York.
And view the Frenchmen how they fortify.
And vows to crown himself in Westminster.
And was beheaded. Thus the Mortimers,
And was he not in England prisoner?
And wash away thy country's stained spots.
And we be lords and rulers over Rouen;
And we for fear compell'd to shut our shops.
And we will make thee famous through the world.
And we, I hope, sir, are no murderers.
And wedded be thou to the hags of hell
And well such losers may have leave to speak.
And were I strong, I would not shun their fury.
And what I do imagine, let that rest.
And what a pitch she flew above the rest!
And what a terror he had been to France.
And what offence it is to flout his friends.
And what we do establish he confirms;
And when I give occasion of offence
And when I spy advantage, claim the crown,
And when I start, the envious people laugh
And when he please to make commotion,
And when the dusky sky began to rob
And when the hardiest warriors did retire,
And when the rage allays, the rain begins.
And when you have done so, bring the keys to me.
And where this breach now in our fortunes made
And where thou art not, desolation.
And where's that valiant crook-back prodigy,
And whereas I was black and swart before,
And wherefore crave you combat, or with whom?
And whet on Warwick to this enterprise.
And whiles the honourable captain there
And whispers to his pillow, as to him,
And will at last break out into a flame;
And will be partner of your weal or woe.
And will not any way dishonour me.
And will not you maintain the thing you teach,
And will that thou thenceforth attend on us.
And will they undertake to do me good?
And will you pale your head in Henry's glory,
And wilt thou still be hammering treachery
And with a puissant and a mighty power
And with my fingers feel his hand un-feeling;
And with my nails digg'd stones out of the ground
And with submissive loyalty of heart
And with the same to act controlling laws.
And with the southern clouds contend in tears-
And with your best endeavour have stirr'd up
And wolves are gnarling who shall gnaw thee first.
And would have armour here out of the Tower,
And would have kept so long as breath did last.
And would not dash me with their ragged sides,
And ye choice spirits that admonish me
And yet be seen to bear a woman's face?
And yet herein I judge mine own wit good-
And yet shalt thou be safe? Such safety finds
And yet the King not privy to my drift,
And yet thy tongue will not confess thy error.
And yet we have but trivial argument,
And yet, good Humphrey, is the hour to come
And yet, in substance and authority,
And yield to mercy whilst 'tis offer'd you,
And you that be the King's friends, follow me.
And you three shall be strangled on the gallows.
And you yourself shall steer the happy helm.
And you, base peasants, do ye believe him? Will you needs be
And you, forsooth, had the good Duke to keep.
And you, good uncle, banish all offence:
And you, my lords, remember where we are:
And you, my lords- methinks you do not well
And you, my sovereign lady, with the rest,
And, Charles, upon condition thou wilt swear
And, after all this fearful homage done,
And, after, meet you sooner than you would.           Exeunt
And, as we may, cherish Duke Humphrey's deeds
And, banding themselves in contrary parts,
And, being Protector, stay'd the soldiers' pay;
And, being a woman, I will not be slack
And, brother York, thy acts in Ireland,
And, but for Owen Glendower, had been king,
And, by his soul, thou and thy house shall rue it.
And, commendable prov'd, let's die in pride.          Exeunt
And, fly thou how thou canst, they'll tangle thee.
And, good my Lord of Somerset, unite
And, if thou canst for blushing, view this face,
And, ignorant of his birth and parentage,
And, in advantage ling'ring, looks for rescue,
And, in that ease, I'll tell thee my disease.
And, in thy closet pent up, rue my shame
And, interchanging blows, I quickly shed
And, like a gallant in the brow of youth,
And, like ambitious Sylla, overgorg'd
And, lords, accept this hearty kind embrace.
And, madam, at your father's castle walls
And, now it is my chance to find thee out,
And, soldiers, stay and lodge by me this night.
And, therefore, as we hither came in peace,
And, vanquish'd as I am, I yield to the
And, which is more, she is not so divine,
And, whilst we breathe, take time to do him dead.
Anjou and Maine both given unto the French!
Anjou and Maine! myself did win them both;
Anon, from thy insulting tyranny,
Appear and aid me in this enterprise!
Approacheth, to confer about some matter.
Approves her fit for none but for a king;
Are brazen images of canonized saints.
Are deeply indebted for this piece of pains;
Are from their hives and houses driven away.
Are glad and fain by flight to save themselves.
Are lank and lean with thy extortions.
Are my chests fill'd up with extorted gold?
Are often welcomest when they are gone.
Argu'd betwixt the Duke of York and him;
Argue the end of Edmund Mortimer.
Arrogant Winchester, that haughty prelate
Art thou a messenger, or come of pleasure?
Art thou not second woman in the realm,
Art thou not weary, John? How dost thou fare?
As Humphrey, prov'd by reasons, to my liege.
As I am clear from treason to my sovereign.
As I am sick with working of my thoughts.
As I bethink me, you should not be King
As I do long and wish to be a subject.
As I have read, laid claim unto the crown;
As I in duty love my king and country!
As I in justice and true right express it!
As I intend, Clifford, to thrive to-day,
As Scythian Tomyris by Cyrus' death.
As all things shall redound unto your good.
As being thought to contradict your liking,
As by his smoothed brows it doth appear;
As by your Grace shall be propounded him
As cognizance of my blood-drinking hate,
As crooked in thy manners as thy shape!
As curst, as harsh, and horrible to hear,
As deputy unto that gracious king,
As did Aeneas old Anchises bear,
As did the fatal brand Althaea burnt
As did the youthful Paris once to Greece,
As ere thy father Henry made it mine;
As far as I could ken thy chalky cliffs,
As fest'red members rot but by degree
As firmly as I hope for fertile England.
As fitting best to quittance their deceit,
As for the Duke of York, this late complaint
As for the brat of this accursed duke,
As for words, whose greatness answers words,
As for your spiteful false objections,
As frowning at the favours of the world?
As guilty of Duke Humphrey's timeless death.
As hating thee, are rising up in arms;
As he stood by whilst I, his forlorn duchess,
As he will have me, how am I so poor?
As his alliance will confirm our peace,
As if she had suborned some to swear
As if, with Circe, she would change my shape!
As is fair Margaret he be link'd in love.
As is the sucking lamb or harmless dove:
As it disanimates his enemies.
As lean-fac'd Envy in her loathsome cave.
As little shall the Frenchmen gain thereby.
As looks the mother on her lowly babe
As market-men for oxen, sheep, or horse.
As mild and gentle as the cradle-babe
As more at large your Grace shall understand.
As next the King he was successive heir-
As now I reap at thy too cruel hand!
As on a mountain-top the cedar shows,
As one that surfeits thinking on a want.
As others would ambitiously receive it.
As place Duke Humphrey for the King's Protector?
As plays the sun upon the glassy streams,
As pledges of my fealty and love.
As princes do their courts when they are cloy'd
As procurator to your Excellence,
As shall revenge his death before I stir.
As stout and proud as he were lord of all-
As sure as in this late betrayed town
As that proud dame, the Lord Protector's wife.
As that whereof I had the government,
As the Antipodes are unto us,
As thou art knight, never to disobey
As thou shalt reign but by their sufferance.
As to be call'd but viceroy of the whole?
As to vouchsafe one glance unto the ground.
As very infants prattle of thy pride.
As well at London Bridge as at the Tower?
As well they may upbraid me with my crown,
As well we may, if not through your neglect-
As who should say 'When I am dead and gone,
As wild Medea young Absyrtus did;
As willingly do I the same resign
As witting I no other comfort have.
As would- but that they dare not- take our parts.
As you fly from your oft subdued slaves.
As, like to pitch, defile nobility,
As, liking of the lady's virtuous gifts,
Ascribes the glory of his conquest got
Ask me what question thou canst possible,
Assail them with the army of the King.
Assure yourselves, will never be unkind.
At Beaufort's pride, at Somerset's ambition,
At Bristol I expect my soldiers;
At Buckingham, and all the crew of them,
At Eltham Place I told your Majesty.
At all times will you have my power alike?
Attracts the same for aidance 'gainst the enemy,
Away from me, and let me hear no more!
Away with them! let them be clapp'd up close,
Away! vexation almost stops my breath,
Away, base cullions! Suffolk, let them go.
Away, for your relief! and we will live
Away, my lord, away!                                  Exeunt
Away, my masters! trouble us no more;
Ay me! What is this world! What news are these!
Ay me, I can no more! Die, Margaret,
Ay, all of you have laid your heads together-
Ay, and allay thus thy abortive pride,
Ay, and their colours, often borne in France,
Ay, beauty's princely majesty is such
Ay, every joint should seem to curse and ban;
Ay, marry, sir, now looks he like a king!
Ay, night by night- in studying good for England!
Ay, this is he that took King Henry's chair,
Back'd by the power of Warwick, that false peer,
Banish the canker of ambitious thoughts!
Bareheaded plodded by my foot-cloth mule,
Barren winter, with his wrathful nipping cold;
Be brought against me at my trial-day!
Be buckled with. The over daring Talbot
Be cast from possibility of all.
Be counterpois'd with such a petty sum!
Be full expir'd. Thanks, uncle Winchester,
Be gone, I say; for till you do return
Be hang'd up for example at their doors.
Be humble to us, call my sovereignvours
Be it by gins, by snares, by subtlety,
Be my last breathing in this mortal world!
Be not amaz'd, there's nothing hid from me.
Be not offended, nature's miracle,
Be packing, therefore, thou that wast a knight;
Be playfellows to keep you company!
Be poisonous too, and kill thy forlorn Queen.
Be quite degraded, like a hedge-born swain
Be that thou hop'st to be; or what thou art
Be thou reveng'd on men, and let me live.
Be thus upbraided, chid, and rated at,
Bear hence his body; I will help to bury it.
Bear her this jewel, pledge of my affection.
Bear that proportion to my flesh and blood
Bearing it to the bloody slaughter-house,
Beat down Alencon, Orleans, Burgundy,
Beat on a crown, the treasure of thy heart;
Beaufort's red sparkling eyes blab his heart's malice,
Became a bricklayer when he came to age.
Because I ever found them as myself.
Because I wish'd this world's eternity.
Because I would not tax the needy commons,
Because he is Protector of the realm,
Because he is near kinsman unto Charles.
Because his purpose is not executed.
Because in York this breeds suspicion;
Because my book preferr'd me to the King,
Because this is in traffic of a king.
Because thy flinty heart, more hard than they,
Because till now we never saw your face.
Because you want the grace that others have,
Because, forsooth, the King of Scots is crown'd.
Becomes it thee to taunt his valiant age
Before I see thee seated in that throne
Before I would have granted to that act.
Before I would have yielded to this league.
Before a true and lawful magistrate
Before he'll buy again at such a rate.
Before his chaps be stain'd with crimson blood,
Before his legs be firm to bear his body!
Before that England give the French the foil.
Before the kings and queens of France.
Before the wound do grow uncurable;
Before thou make a trial of her love?
Before we met or that a stroke was given,
Before whose glory I was great in arms,
Before young Talbot from old Talbot fly,
Before-
Begin your suits anew, and sue to him.
Beguiles him as the mournful crocodile
Begun through malice of the Bishop's men.
Behold the wounds, the most unnatural wounds,
Behoves it us to labour for the realm.
Being all descended to the labouring heart,
Being but fourth of that heroic line.
Being captain of a pinnace, threatens more
Being opposites of such repairing nature.
Beldam, I think we watch'd you at an inch.
Believe me, lords, my tender years can tell
Believe me, lords, were none more wise than I-
Beshrew the winners, for they play'd me false!
Beside five hundred prisoners of esteem,
Beside, I fear me, if thy thoughts were sifted,
Beside, what infamy will there arise
Bespoke him thus: 'Contaminated, base,
Bethink thee on her virtues that surmount,
Better ten thousand base-born Cades miscarry
Between our sovereign and the French King Charles,
Between the realms of England and of France.
Between two blades, which bears the better temper;
Between two dogs, which hath the deeper mouth;
Between two girls, which hath the merriest eye
Between two horses, which doth bear him best;
Betwixt our nation and the aspiring French;
Betwixt ourselves and all our followers.
Betwixt ourselves let us decide it then.
Bewitch your hearts; be wise and circumspect.
Bewray'd the faintness of my master's heart.
Bid Salisbury and Warwick come to me.
Bid'st thou me rage? Why, now thou hast thy wish;
Blaspheming God, and cursing men on earth.
Blood will I draw on thee-thou art a witch
Blotting your names from books of memory,
Blue-coats to tawny-coats. Priest, beware your beard;
Blush for pure shame to counterfeit our roses,
Bordeaux.
Born to eclipse thy life this afternoon.
Both are my kinsmen, and I love them both.
Both from thy table, Henry, and thy bed,
Brave Death by speaking, whether he will or no;
Brave York, Salisbury, and victorious Warwick,
Break up the gates, I'll be your warrantize.
Breathe foul contagious darkness in the air.
Breathe out invectives 'gainst the officers.
Bright star of Venus, fall'n down on the earth,
Bring the strong poison that I bought of him.
Broke be my sword, my arms torn and defac'd,
Brother, thou shalt to London presently
Buckingham, I prithee, pardon me
Burns under feigned ashes of forg'd love
Burns with revenging fire, whose hopeful colours
But 'tis my presence that doth trouble ye.
But God in mercy so deal with my soul
But I am troubled here with them myself;
But I in danger for the breach of law.
But I must make fair weather yet awhile,
But I was made a king, at nine months old.
But I will chastise this high minded strumpet.
But I will remedy this gear ere long,
But I will rule both her, the King, and realm.          Exit
But I'll unto his Majesty and crave
But Joan la Pucelle shall be France's saint.
But Margaret, that is daughter to a king?
But Reignier, King of Naples, that prevail'd.
But all his mind is bent to holiness,
But all in vain are these mean obsequies;
But all the honour Salisbury hath won
But all the whole inheritance I give
But always resolute in most extremes.
But be extirped from our provinces.
But be it as it may. [To YORK] I here entail
But be thou mild, and blush not at my shame,
But boldly stand and front him to his face.
But buckler with thee blows, twice two for one.
But burning fatal to the Talbotites.                    Exit
But can do more in England than the King.
But curse the cause I cannot aid the man.
But dare maintain the party of the truth,
But darkness and the gloomy shade of death
But death doth front thee with apparent spoil
But dies betray'd to fortune by your strife.
But fear not thou until thy foot be snar'd,
But first, to try her skill,
But fly you must; uncurable discomfit
But gather we our forces out of hand
But get you to Smithfield, and gather head,
But great men tremble when the lion roars,
But greater sin to keep a sinful oath.
But he shall know I am as good
But here's a vengeful sword, rusted with ease,
But him outlive, and die a violent death.
But him outlive, and die a violent death.'
But how he died God knows, not Henry.
But how is it that great Plantagenet
But howsoe'er, no simple man that sees
But if I bow, they'll say it was for fear.
But if thy arms be to no other end,
But if you frown upon this proffer'd peace,
But in these nice sharp quillets of the law,
But is your Grace dead, my Lord of Somerset?
But issued from the progeny of kings;
But join in friendship, as your lords have done.
But kings and mightiest potentates must die,
But left that hateful office unto thee.
But like a pleasant slumber in thy lap?
But list to me, my Humphrey, my sweet Duke:
But little thinks we shall be of her council.
But mark: as in this haughty great attempt
But match to match I have encount'red him,
But may imagine how the bird was dead,
But meet him now and be it in the morn,
But mightier crimes are laid unto your charge,
But mine is made the prologue to their play;
But mine it will, that no exploit have done;
But more when envy breeds unkind division:
But now is Cade driven back, his men dispers'd,
But now it is impossible we should.
But now return we to the false Duke Humphrey.
But now the arbitrator of despairs,
But now the substance shall endure the like
But now thy uncle is removing hence,
But one imperious in another's throne?
But only, with your patience, that we may
But prosper better than the Troyan did.
But prove a chief offender in the same?
But rather, moody-mad and desperate stags,
But see his exequies fulfill'd in Rouen.
But see, his face is black and full of blood;
But since your ladyship is not at leisure,
But stay, I'll read it over once again.
But still remember what the Lord hath done.
But still where danger was, still there I met him;
But tell me whom thou seek'st.
But tell me, keeper, will my nephew come?
But that 'tis shown ignobly and in treason.
But that I seek occasion how to rise,
But that he was bound by a solemn oath?
But that it doth presage some ill event.
But that my heart accordeth with my tongue,
But that the next heir should succeed and reign.
But that thou art so fast mine enemy.
But that thy face is visard-like, unchanging,
But then Aeneas bare a living load,
But there remains a scruple in that too;
But this I know- they have demean'd themselves
But thou mistakes me much to think I do.
But thou prefer'st thy life before thine honour;
But thou shalt wear it as a herald's coat
But thou wilt brave me with these saucy terms?
But three days longer, on the pain of death.
But to maintain the King, the realm, and you?
But to make open proclamation.
But to the matter that we have in hand:
But unto thee, Alencon, and the rest.
But we shall meet and break our minds at large.
But we will be reveng'd sufficiently.
But we will presently provide for them.
But weakly guarded, where the breach was made.
But what's that Pucelle whom they term so pure?
But when I swear, it is irrevocable.
But when my angry guardant stood alone,
But when they heard he was thine enemy
But where's the body that I should embrace?
But wherefore grieve I at an hour's poor loss,
But wherefore weeps Warwick, my valiant son?
But who can cease to weep, and look on this?
But will suspect 'twas he that made the slaughter?
But with a baser man of arms by far
But with a proud majestical high scorn
But with advice and silent secrecy.
But with as humble lowliness of mind
But with our sword we wip'd away the blot;
But yet be wary in thy studious care.
But yet methinks my father's execution
But yet we want a colour for his death.
But you are more inhuman, more inexorable-
But you, my lord, were glad to be employ'd,
But you, that are polluted with your lusts,
But your discretions better can persuade
But, God He knows, thy share thereof is small.
But, O malignant and ill-boding stars!
But, O! the treacherous Fastolfe wounds my heart
But, as I think, it was by th' Cardinal;
But, as the rest, so fell that noble earl,
But, lords, in all our bloody massacre,
But, madam, I must trouble you again
But, my Lord Cardinal, and you, my Lord of Suffolk,
But, noble as he is, look where he comes.
But, soft! I think she comes, and I'll prepare
But, stay. What news? Why com'st thou in such post?
But, to the rest.
By Suffolk and the Cardinal Beaufort's means.
By bloody hands, in sleeping on your beds!
By crying comfort from a hollow breast,
By day, by night, waking and in my dreams,
By devilish policy art thou grown great,
By fair persuasions, mix'd with sug'red words,
By false accuse doth level at my life.
By flattery hath he won the commons' hearts;
By forfeiting a traitor and a coward.
By giving the house of Lancaster leave to breathe,
By good Saint Alban, who said 'Simpcox, come,
By her I claim the kingdom: she was heir
By inspiration of celestial grace,
By me entreats, great lord, thou wouldst vouchsafe
By me they nothing gain an if I stay:
By means whereof his Highness hath lost France.
By means whereof the towns each day revolted.
By message crav'd, so is Lord Talbot come.
By nature prov'd an enemy to the flock,
By our proceeding in hostility;
By reason of his adversary's odds:
By shameful murder of a guiltless king
By sight of these our baleful enemies.
By staying there so long till all were lost.
By such a lowly vassal as thyself.
By sudden flight. Come, dally not, be gone.
By th' mass, so did we all. I thank you, Richard:
By the eternal God, whose name and power
By thee Anjou and Maine were sold to France;
By this I shall perceive the commons' mind,
By this means shall we sound what skill she hath.
By this unheedful, desperate, wild adventure.
By treason, falsehood, and by treachery,
By wasting ruin of the cruel foe;
By what we can, which can no more but fly.
By whose approach the regions of Artois,
By wicked means to frame our sovereign's fall.
By words or blows here let us win our right.
By your espials were discovered
Call hither to the stake my two brave bears,
Call we to mind-and mark but this for proof:
Call ye the warlike Talbot, for his acts
Call'd for the truce of Winchester and Gloucester;
Call'd the brave Lord Ponton de Santrailles;
Calling him 'Humphrey, the good Duke of Gloucester,'
Came he right now to sing a raven's note,
Came in strong rescue. Speak, thy father's care;
Came to the field, and vanquished his foes.
Can I make men live, whe'er they will or no?
Can chase away the first conceived sound?
Can set the Duke up in despite of me.
Can you, my Lord of Winchester, behold
Cannot do more in England than the Nevils;
Cannot my body nor blood sacrifice
Care is no cure, but rather corrosive,
Causeless have laid disgraces on my head,
Charg'd our main battle's front, and, breaking in,
Charles and William de la Pole, Marquess of Suffolk, ambassador
Charles and the rest will take thee in their arms.
Chaste and immaculate in very thought;
Cheer'd up the drooping army, and himself,
Chief master-gunner am I of this town;
Chok'd with ambition of the meaner sort;
Christendom. If thou hadst been born blind, thou mightst as well
Churchmen so hot? Good uncle, hide such malice;
Civil dissension is a viperous worm
Clapping their hands, and crying with loud voice
Clifford, I say, come forth and fight with me.
Climbing my walls in spite of me the owner,
Clip dead men's graves, and from their misty jaws
Close up his eyes, and draw the curtain close;
Cold news for me, for I had hope of France,
Collected choicely, from each county some,
Collected for this expedition.
Comb down his hair; look, look! it stands upright,
Come hither, Captain.  [Whispers]   You perceive my mind?
Come in, and let us banquet royally
Come, Somerset, we'll see thee sent away.   Flourish. Exeunt
Come, Stanley, shall we go?
Come, Warwick, come, good Warwick, go with me;
Come, bloody Clifford, rough Northumberland,
Come, come, and lay him in his father's arms.
Come, come, my lords;
Come, come, return; return, thou wandering lord;
Come, cousin, you shall be the messenger.
Come, fellow, follow us for thy reward.
Come, let us four to dinner. I dare say
Come, let us in, and with all speed provide
Come, let's away.                                     Exeunt
Come, make him stand upon this molehill here
Come, offer at my shrine, and I will help thee.'
Come, officer, as loud as e'er thou canst,
Come, side by side together live and die;
Come, thou new ruin of old Clifford's house;
Command in Anjou what your Honour pleases.
Command my eldest son, nay, all my sons,
Command the conquest, Charles, it shall be thine,
Command, I mean, of virtuous intents,
Commit them to the fortune of the sea.
Condemn'd to die for treason, but no traitor;
Conditionally, that here thou take an oath
Confounds the tongue and makes the senses rough.
Congeal'd with this, do make me wipe off both.          Exit
Consent, and for thy honour give consent,
Consider, lords, he is the next of blood
Constrain'd to watch in darkness, rain, and cold.
Contemptuous base-born callet as she is,
Contenteth me, and worth a monarchy.
Continue still in this so good a mind,
Contriv'd by art and baleful sorcery.
Convey me Salisbury into his tent,
Corrupt and tainted with a thousand vices,
Corrupted, and exempt from ancient gentry?
Could I come near your beauty with my nails,
Could not prevail with all their oratory,
Could send such message to their sovereign;
Coupled in bonds of perpetuity,
Cousin of Exeter, frowns, words, and threats,
Cousin of Somerset, join you with me,
Cousin of York, we institute your Grace
Created for his rare success in arms
Cries out for noble York and Somerset
Crown'd by the name of Henry the Fourth,
Crowned in Paris, in despite of foes?
Cry.
Crying 'Villiago!' unto all they meet.
Cut both the villains' throats- for die you shall;
Dame Eleanor gives gold to bring the witch:
Damsel, I'll have a bout with you again,
Dar'st thou maintain the former words thou spak'st?
Dare no man answer in a case of truth?
Dares stir a wing if Warwick shake his bells.
Dauphin of France? Be it known unto thee by these presence, even
Dauphin, command the citizens make bonfires
Dealing with witches and with conjurers,
Death, at whose name I oft have been afeard,
Deck'd with five flower-de-luces on each side,
Deep night, dark night, the silent of the night,
Defacing monuments of conquer'd France,
Deliver up my title in the Queen
Deliver'd strongly through my fixed teeth,
Deliver'd up again with peaceful words?
Demanding of King Henry's life and death
Deny me not, I prithee, gentle Joan.
Depos'd his nephew Richard, Edward's son,
Depriv'd of honour and inheritance.
Descended from the Duke of Clarence' house,
Despairing of his own arm's fortitude,
Despite Duke Humphrey or the Cardinal.
Despite the berard that protects the bear.
Despoiled of your honour in your life,
Destroy'd themselves and lost the realm of France!
Detract so much from that prerogative
Devil or devil's dam, I'll conjure thee;
Devise strange deaths for small offences done?
Dicky your boy, that with his grumbling voice
Did bear him like a noble gentleman.
Did flesh his puny sword in Frenchmen's blood!
Did he so often lodge in open field,
Did instigate the bedlam brainsick Duchess
Did look no better to that weighty charge.
Did never traitor in the land commit.
Did represent my master's blushing cheeks
Did seem to say 'Seek not a scorpion's nest,
Didst ever hear a man so penitent?
Didst thou at first, to flatter us withal,
Die, damned wretch, the curse of her that bare thee!
Died he not in his bed? Where should he die?
Discourse, I prithee, on this turret's top.
Disdain to call us lord; and Picardy
Disdaining duty that to us belongs.
Disgracing of these colours that I wear
Dishonour not her honourable name,
Dispersed are the glories it included.
Dispute not that; York is the worthier.
Dizzy-ey'd fury and great rage of heart
Do breed love's settled passions in my heart;
Do calm the fury of this mad-bred flaw.
Do it without invention, suddenly;
Do or undo, as if ourself were here.
Do pelt so fast at one another's pate
Do seek subversion of thy harmless life?
Do you as I do in these dangerous days:
Dost thou deny thy father, cursed drab?
Doth but usurp the sacred name of knight,
Doth stop my cornets, were in Talbot's place!
Doubting thy birth and lawful progeny.
Draw, men, for all this privileged place
Dread lord, the commons send you word by me
Drive them from Orleans, and be immortaliz'd.
Drive you to break your necks or hang yourselves!
Drives back our troops and conquers as she lists.
Drones suck not eagles' blood but rob beehives.
Drops bloody sweat from his war-wearied limbs
Drove back again unto my native clime?
Duke of Anjou and Maine, yet is he poor,
During the life, let us not wrong it dead.
During whose reign the Percies of the north,
Dying with mother's dug between its lips;
Earl of Northumberland, he slew thy father;
Early and late, debating to and fro
Edmund had issue, Roger Earl of March;
Edward and Richard, you shall stay with me;
Edward the Black Prince died before his father
Edward the Third, my lords, had seven sons;
Either accept the title thou usurp'st,
Either to be restored to my blood,
Either to get the town again or die;
Either to suffer shipwreck or arrive
Else ne'er could he so long protract his speech.
Else ruin combat with their palaces!
Else with the like I had requited him.
Else would I have a fling at Winchester.
Else, farewell Talbot, France, and England's honour.
Embrace we then this opportunity,
Embrace, and kiss, and take ten thousand leaves,
Employ thee, then, sweet virgin, for our good.
Enchas'd with all the honours of the world?
Encompass'd with thy lustful paramours,
Endeavour'd my advancement to the throne.
England's own proper cost and charges, without having any dowry.'
England.
English John Talbot, Captains, calls you forth,
Enjoy mine own, the country Maine and Anjou,
Enjoy the kingdom after my decease.
Enough to purchase such another island,
Enshrines thee in his heart, and there erects
Enter MESSENGER and TALBOT.
Enter his chamber, view his breathless corpse,
Enter, and cry 'The Dauphin!' presently,
Entreat you to your wonted furtherance?
Environ you, till mischief and despair
Ere you can take due orders for a priest;
Erect his statue and worship it,
Especially for those occasions
Especially since Charles must father it.
Esteem none friends but such as are his friends,
Even as I have of fertile England's soil.
Even as a splitted bark, so sunder we:
Even in the chair of state! Belike he means,
Even in the lukewarm blood of Henry's heart.
Even like a man new haled from the rack,
Even of the bonny beast he lov'd so well.
Even so myself bewails good Gloucester's case
Even so suspicious is this tragedy.
Even so, remorseless, have they borne him hence;
Even to affright thee with the view thereof.
Exceeding the nine sibyls of old Rome:
Excellent Pucelle, if thy name be so,
Except a sword or sceptre balance it.
Except you mean with obstinate repulse
Excepting none but good Duke Humphrey.
Expect Saint Martin's summer, halcyon days,
Expect your Highness' doom of life or death.
Fain would I go to chafe his paly lips
Fain would I woo her, yet I dare not speak.
Fain would mine eyes be witness with mine ears
False allegations to o'erthrow his state?
False fiend, avoid!       Thunder and lightning. Exit SPIRIT
False king, why hast thou broken faith with me,
Far be it we should honour such as these
Farewell, good King; when I am dead and gone,
Faster than spring-time show'rs comes thought on thought,
Fatal this marriage, cancelling your fame,
Father, tear the crown from the usurper's head.
Fear frames disorder, and disorder wounds
Fed from my trencher, kneel'd down at the board,
Feeds in the bosom of such great commanders,
Fellow, what miracle dost thou proclaim?
Fie, de la Pole! disable not thyself;
Fifth, in whose time boys went to span-counter for French crowns,
Fight for your King, your country, and your lives;
Fight till the last gasp; I will be your guard.
Finding his usurpation most unjust,
Finish the process of his sandy hour,
First note that he is near you in descent,
First to my God and next unto your Grace.           [Kneels]
First, for I cannot flatter thee in pride;
Fit to be made companion with a king.
Fitter for sickness and for crazy age.
Flight cannot stain the honour you have won;
Fling up his cap and say 'God save his Majesty!'
Fly, to revenge my death when I am dead:
Follow I must; I cannot go before,
Follow me, soldiers; we'll devise a mean
For France, 'tis ours; and we will keep it still.
For God forbid so many simple souls
For God's sake, let him have them; to keep them here,
For Henry weeps that thou dost live so long.
For Henry, son unto a conqueror,
For Humphrey being dead, as he shall be,
For I am bold to counsel you in this:
For I am ignorant and cannot guess.
For I am rightful heir unto the crown.
For I am sorry that with reverence
For I can stay no longer.
For I have loaden me with many spoils,
For I have seen our enemies' overthrow.
For I intend to have it ere long.
For I myself must hunt this deer to death.
For I perceive I am thy prisoner.
For I should melt at an offender's tears,
For I will touch thee but with reverent hands;
For Richard, in the view of many lords,
For Richard, the first son's heir, being dead,
For Suffolk- he that can do all in all
For Talbot means no goodness by his looks.
For blessed are the peacemakers on earth.
For by his death we do perceive his guilt;
For by my mother I derived am
For clothing me in these grave ornaments.
For costs and charges in transporting her!
For daring to affy a mighty lord
For eighteen months concluded by consent.
For ere the glass that now begins to run
For every drop of blood was drawn from him
For every word you speak in his behalf
For fly he could not if he would have fled;
For friendly counsel cuts off many foes.
For had the passions of thy heart burst out,
For he hath witness of his servant's malice.
For he is fierce and cannot brook hard language.
For he that interrupts him shall not live.
For he's disposed as the hateful raven.
For he's inclin'd as is the ravenous wolf.
For here we entertain a solemn peace.                 Exeunt
For him was I exchang'd and ransomed.
For hither we have broken in by force.
For in my gallery thy picture hangs;
For in the shade of death I shall find joy-
For it is known we were but hollow friends:
For judgment only doth belong to Thee.
For know, my lords, the states of Christendom,
For live I will not if my father die.
For losing ken of Albion's wished coast.
For my profession's sacred from above.
For none abides with me. My joy is death-
For none would strike a stroke in his revenge.
For one to thrust his hand between his teeth,
For pale they look with fear, as witnessing
For princes should be free.
For raging wind blows up incessant showers,
For shame! In duty bend thy knee to me,
For shame, my Lord of Winchester, relent;
For single combat in convenient place,
For smoke and dusky vapours of the night,
For soldiers' pay in France, and never sent it?
For soldiers' stomachs always serve them well.
For suddenly a grievous sickness took him
For sure my thoughts do hourly prophesy
For swallowing the treasure of the realm.
For that John Mortimer, which now is dead,
For that's the end of human misery.                   Exeunt
For that's the golden mark I seek to hit.
For there I'll ship them all for Ireland.
For there young Henry with his nobles lie.
For these my friends in spite of thee shall wear.
For they are certain and unfallible.
For they are thrifty honest men and such
For things are often spoke and seldom meant;
For things that are not to be remedied.
For this is thine, and not King Henry's heirs'.
For thou hast given me in this beauteous face
For though he seem with forged quaint conceit
For though her father be the King of Naples,
For thousands more that yet suspect no peril
For thy mistaking so, we pardon thee.
For till thou speak thou shalt not pass from hence.
For treason executed in our late king's days?
For underneath an alehouse' paltry sign,
For were there hope to conquer them again
For what is wedlock forced but a hell,
For what you see is but the smallest part
For what's more miserable than discontent?
For where thou art, there is the world itself,
For whereso'er thou art in this world's globe
For which I will divide my crown with her;
For whilst I think I am thy married wife
For with his soul fled all my worldly solace,
For yet may England curse my wretched reign.
For you shall sup with Jesu Christ to-night.
For your behoof.
For your expenses and sufficient charge,
For your partaker Pole, and you yourself,
For, I protest, we are well fortified,
For, as I hear, the King is fled to London
For, being green, there is great hope of help.
For, good King Henry, thy decay I fear.        Exit, guarded
For, seeing him, I see my life in death.
For, whilst our pinnace anchors in the Downs,
Forbidden late to carry any weapon,
Forgive me, country, and sweet countrymen
Forsaken your pernicious faction,
Fortune in favour makes him lag behind.
Foul subornation is predominant,
France should have torn and rent my very heart
France were no place for Henry's warriors;
France, triumph in thy glorious prophetess.
Free from a stubborn opposite intent,
Free from oppression or the stroke of war,
Frenchmen, I'll be a Salisbury to you.
From John of Gaunt doth bring his pedigree,
From Lionel Duke of Clarence, third son
From envious malice of thy swelling heart.
From famous Edmund Langley, Duke of York,
From him I have express commandment
From meaning treason to our royal person
From off this brier pluck a white rose with me.
From such fell serpents as false Suffolk is;
From thee to die were torture more than death.
From thee, my boy, and had the maidenhood
From thence to England, where I hope ere long
From thence unto the place of execution:
From top of honour to disgrace's feet?
From treason's secret knife and traitor's rage
From whence you spring by lineal descent.
Froward by nature, enemy to peace;
Full often, like a shag-hair'd crafty kern,
Gall, worse than gall, the daintiest that they taste!
Gazing on that which seems to dim thy sight?
Give me my fan. What, minion, can ye not?
Give me some drink; and bid the apothecary
Give me their bodies, that I may bear them hence
Give place. By heaven, thou shalt rule no more
Give thee her hand for sign of plighted faith.
Give thee thy hire and send thy soul to hell,
Give up thy staff; Henry will to himself
Give up your staff, sir, and the King his realm.
Gives light in darkness, comfort in despair!
Giving my verdict on the white rose side.
Glory is like a circle in the water,
Gloucester, York, Buckingham, Somerset,
Go and be free again as Suffolk's friend.     [She is going]
Go cheerfully together and digest
Go, bid her hide him quickly from the Duke.
Go, go, cheer up thy hungry starved men;
Go, lead the way; I long to see my prison.            Exeunt
Go, speak not to me; even now be gone.
God and King Henry govern England's realm!
God and Saint George, Talbot and England's right,
God b'uy, my lord; we came but to tell you
God comfort him in this necessity!
God is our fortress, in whose conquering name
God knows how long it is I have to live,
God knows thou art a collop of my flesh;
God on my knees thou mayst be turn'd to hobnails. [Here they
God on our side, doubt not of victory.
God should be so obdurate as yourselves,
God speed the parliament! Who shall be the Speaker?
God's Mother deigned to appear to me,
Gold cannot come amiss were she a devil.
Good God, these nobles should such stomachs bear!
Good Queen, and whet not on these furious peers;
Good cousins both, of York and Somerset,
Good faith, I am no wiser than a daw.
Goodman, my Lord Cardinal's man, for keeping my house and lands,
Grace, that he hath chang'd his style?
Great Coeur-de-lion's heart was buried
Great Earl of Washford, Waterford, and Valence,
Great Marshal to Henry the Sixth
Great is the rumour of this dreadful knight,
Great men oft die by vile bezonians:
Grown to this faction in the Temple Garden,
Guards, Soldiers, Messengers, &c.
HUMPHREY'S brigandine] This monument of the victory will I bear,
Had Death been French, then Death had died to-day.
Had Henry got an empire by his marriage
Had I been there, which am a silly woman,
Had I but said, I would have kept my word;
Had I sufficient skill to utter them,
Had been a little ratsbane for thy sake.
Had been the Regent there instead of me,
Had not your man put up the fowl so suddenly,
Hadst thou but lov'd him half so well as I,
Hang over thee, as sure it shortly will.
Hang up your ensigns, let your drums be still,
Hanging the head at Ceres' plenteous load?
Hangs on the cutting short that fraudful man.
Hard-hearted Clifford, take me from the world;
Hark! by the sound of drum you may perceive
Hark! hark! The Dauphin's drum, a warning bell,
Hark, countrymen! Either renew the fight
Harmless Richard was murdered traitorously.
Has thou not spirit to curse thine enemy?
Hast not a tongue? Is she not here thy prisoner?
Hast thou not kiss'd thy hand and held my stirrup,
Hast thou not worldly pleasure at command
Hath banish'd moody discontented fury,
Hath been enacted through your enmity;
Hath clapp'd his tail between his legs and cried;
Hath gain'd thy daughter princely liberty.
Hath given the duchy of Anjou and Maine
Hath given them heart and courage to proceed.
Hath he conversed with the enemy,
Hath he deserv'd to lose his birthright thus?
Hath he forgot he is his sovereign?
Hath here distrain'd the Tower to his use.
Hath made her break out into terms of rage!
Hath made me full of sickness and diseases.
Hath made the wizard famous in his death.
Hath made us by-words to our enemies.
Hath no self-love; nor he that loves himself
Hath not essentially, but by circumstance,
Hath now entrapp'd the noble minded Talbot.
Hath slain their governors, surpris'd our forts,
Hath stopp'd the passage where thy words should enter.
Hath sullied all his gloss of former honour
Hath that poor monarch taught thee to insult?
Hath won the greatest favour of the commons,
Hath wrought this hellish mischief unawares,
Have I affected wealth or honour? Speak.
Have I dispursed to the garrisons,
Have I sought every country far and near,
Have all lim'd bushes to betray thy wings,
Have batt'red me like roaring cannon-shot
Have been as bondmen to thy sovereignty.
Have been consider'd and debated on.
Have cost a mass of public treasury.
Have done, for more I hardly can endure.
Have earnestly implor'd a general peace
Have fill'd their pockets full of pebble stones
Have hired me to undermine the Duchess,
Have made thee fear'd and honour'd of the people:
Have practis'd dangerously against your state,
Have we not lost most part of all the towns,
Have you laid fair the bed? Is all things well,
Have you yourselves, Somerset, Buckingham,
Having all day carous'd and banqueted;
Having neither subject, wealth, nor diadem.
He answer'd thus: 'Young Talbot was not born
He be approv'd in practice culpable.
He be as miserably slain as I.
He beckons with his hand and smiles on me,
He being of age to govern of himself?
He dies, and makes no sign: O God, forgive him!
He doth intend she shall be England's Queen.
He durst not sit there had your father liv'd.
He hath no eyes, the dust hath blinded them.
He is a man, and, Clifford, cope with him.
He knits his brow and shows an angry eye
He left me proudly, as unworthy fight.
He never would have stay'd in France so long.
He shall not breathe infection in this air
He slily stole away and left his men;
He speaks with such a proud commanding spirit.
He that is truly dedicate to war
He then that is not furnish'd in this sort
He were created knight for his good service.
He will be found a dangerous Protector.
He will be here, and yet he is not here.
He'll make his cap co-equal with the crown.'
Heaping confusion on their own heads thereby!
Hearing alarums at our chamber doors.
Hearing of your arrival in this realm,
Heart's discontent and sour affliction
Heaven and our Lady gracious hath it pleas'd
Heaven, be thou gracious to none alive
Helen, the mother of great Constantine,
Help Salisbury to make his testament.
Help me this once, that France may get the field.
Hence will I drag thee headlong by the heels
Henceforth I charge you, as you love our favour,
Henceforth I will not have to do with pity:
Henceforth we banish thee on pain of death.
Henry doth claim the crown from John of Gaunt,
Henry had none, but did usurp the place;
Henry hath money; you are strong and manly.
Henry is able to enrich his queen,
Henry is youthful, and will quickly yield.
Henry my lord is cold in great affairs,
Henry the Fifth did sometime prophesy:
Henry the Fifth he first train'd to the wars;
Henry the Fifth, that made all France to quake,
Henry the Fifth. Whiles they each other cross,
Henry the Fourth, grandfather to this king,
Her aid she promis'd and assur'd success.
Her ashes, in an urn more precious
Her beauty, and the value of her dower,
Her father is no better than an earl,
Her mother liveth yet, can testify
Her peerless feature, joined with her birth,
Her valiant courage and undaunted spirit,
Her virtues, graced with external gifts,
Her words y-clad with wisdom's majesty,
Here are the articles of contracted peace
Here by the cheeks I'll drag thee up and down.
Here could I breathe my soul into the air,
Here dies the dusky torch of Mortimer,
Here in our presence! Dare you be so bold?
Here is a hand to hold a sceptre up,
Here is the best and safest passage in?
Here let them end it, and God defend the right!
Here may his head lie on my throbbing breast;
Here must I stay, and here my life must end.
Here purposing the Bastard to destroy,
Here shall they make their ransom on the sand,
Here sound retreat and cease our hot pursuit.
Here will I sit before the walls of Rouen,
Here's Beaufort, that regards nor God nor King,
Here, Hume, take this reward; make merry, man,
Here, here she comes. I'll have a bout with thee.
Here, on my knee, I beg mortality,
Here, said they, is the terror of the French,
Here, through this grate, I count each one
Hide not thy poison with such sug'red words;
Him caper upright like a wild Morisco,
Him that thou magnifi'st with all these tides,
His Highness' pleasure is to talk with him.
His arms are only to remove from thee
His army is a ragged multitude
His bloody sword he brandish'd over me,
His body will I bear unto the King.
His champions are the prophets and apostles;
His days may finish ere that hapless time.              Exit
His eye-balls further out than when he liv'd,
His father's acts commenc'd in burning Troy!
His fortunes I will weep, and 'twixt each groan
His grandfather was Lionel Duke of Clarence,
His guilt should be but idly posted over,
His hair uprear'd, his nostrils stretch'd with struggling;
His hands abroad display'd, as one that grasp'd
His insolence is more intolerable
His lady banish'd and a limb lopp'd off.
His new-come champion, virtuous Joan of Arc,
His overmounting spirit; and there died,
His son am I; deny it if you can.
His sons, he says, shall give their words for him.
His study is his tilt-yard, and his loves
His sword did ne'er leave striking in the field.
His trespass yet lives guilty in thy blood;
His valour, coin, and people, in the wars?
His weapons, holy saws of sacred writ;
His well-proportion'd beard made rough and rugged,
His words were these: that Richard Duke of York
Hold up thy hand, make signal of thy hope.
Hold you his hands whilst I do set it on.
Holden at Bury the first of this next month.
Home to your cottages, forsake this groom;
Honour and virtue, and convers'd with such
Hot coals of vengeance! Let no soldier fly.
How France and Frenchmen might be kept in awe?
How I have lov'd my King and commonweal;
How are we park'd and bounded in a pale
How can these contrarieties agree?
How couldst thou drain the life-blood of the child,
How far'st thou, mirror of all martial men?
How ill-beseeming is it in thy sex
How in our voiding-lobby hast thou stood
How insolent of late he is become,
How irksome is this music to my heart!
How joyful am I made by this contract!
How may I reverently worship thee enough?
How much in duty I am bound to both.
How now! Why look'st thou pale? Why tremblest thou?
How now! Why start'st thou? What, doth death affright?
How now, my noble lord! what, all a-foot?
How often hast thou waited at my cup,
How often have I tempted Suffolk's tongue-
How or which way; 'tis sure they found some place
How proud, how peremptory, and unlike himself?
How say you, madam? Are ye so content?
How say you, madam? Are you now persuaded
How say you, my lord, are you not content?
How shall I honour thee for this success?
How shall we then dispense with that contract,
How sweet a thing it is to wear a crown,
How the English, in the suburbs close intrench'd,
How they affect the house and claim of York.
How wert thou handled being prisoner?
How will their grudging stomachs be provok'd
How would it fare with your departed souls?
Howe'er unfortunate I miss'd my aim.
Hume's knavery will be the Duchess' wreck,
Hume, if you take not heed, you shall go near
Humphrey of Gloucester, if thou canst accuse
Humphrey of Gloucester, thou shalt well perceive
I am a soldier and unapt to weep
I am content he shall reign; but I'll be Protector over him.
I am descended of a gentler blood;
I am far better born than is the King,
I am no loathsome leper- look on me.
I am resolv'd for death or dignity.
I am so angry at these abject terms;
I am the son of Henry the Fifth,
I am thy king, and thou a false-heart traitor.
I am thy sovereign.
I am too mean a subject for thy wrath;
I am with child, ye bloody homicides;
I am your butt, and I abide your shot.
I banish her my bed and company
I beseech your Majesty give me leave to go;
I can express no kinder sign of love
I can no more: Live thou to joy thy life;
I cannot blame them all: what is't to them?
I cannot give due action to my words
I cannot justify whom the law condemns.
I cannot tell; but this I am assur'd,
I care not whither, for I beg no favour,
I charge thee waft me safely cross the Channel.
I claim the crown, had issue Philippe, a daughter,
I cleft his beaver with a downright blow.
I come to know what prisoners thou hast ta'en,
I come to talk of commonwealth affairs.
I could set my ten commandments in your face.
I crave the benefit of law of arms.
I cry your mercy, madam; was it you?
I dare not say from the rich Cardinal,
I dare presume, sweet prince, he thought no harm.
I dare your quenchless fury to more rage;
I did beget her, all the parish knows.
I did imagine what would be her refuge.
I did not entertain thee as thou art.
I do arrest thee of high treason here.
I do arrest you in His Highness' name,
I do believe that violent hands were laid
I do beseech your royal Majesty,
I do dismiss you to your several countries.
I do remember how my father said
I doubt not but with honour to redress;
I doubt not, uncle, of our victory.
I fear me you but warm the starved snake,
I fear me, lords, for all this flattering gloss,
I fear me, love, if that I had been dead,
I fear we should have seen decipher'd there
I feel such sharp dissension in my breast,
I find thou art no less than fame hath bruited,
I gave thee life and rescu'd thee from death.
I girt thee with the valiant sword of York.
I give thee this to dry thy cheeks withal.
I go of message from the Queen to France:
I go to certify her Talbot's here.
I had in charge at my depart for France,
I have awhile given truce unto my wars
I have great matters to impart to thee.
I have inform'd his Highness so at large,
I have perform'd my task, and was espous'd;
I have perhaps some shallow spirit of judgment;
I have seduc'd a headstrong Kentishman,
I kiss these fingers for eternal peace,
I know no pain they can inflict upon him
I know not where I am nor what I do.
I know thee not; why then should I betray thee?
I know thee well, though never seen before.
I know their complot is to have my life;
I know, ere thy will have me go to ward,
I lost my liberty, and they their lives.
I may have liberty to venge this wrong;
I may revolve and ruminate my grief.                    Exit
I mean to prove this lady's courtesy.
I mean to take possession of my right.
I mean to tug it, and to cuff you soundly;
I met in travel toward his warlike father.
I more incline to Somerset than York:
I muse we met not with the Dauphin's grace,
I must examine thee. What is thy name?
I must go victual Orleans forthwith.
I must offend before I be attainted;
I myself fight not once in forty year.                Exeunt
I never gave them condign punishment.
I never had to do with wicked spirits.
I never read but England's kings have had
I never robb'd the soldiers of their pay
I never saw but Humphrey Duke of Gloucester
I owe him little duty and less love,
I pluck this pale and maiden blossom here,
I pluck this white rose with Plantagenet.
I pray thee sort thy heart to patience;
I pray thee, Buckingham, go and meet him
I pray, my lords, let me compound this strife.
I prithee grieve to make me merry, York.
I prophesied France will be lost ere long.              Exit
I rather would have lost my life betimes
I rest perplexed with a thousand cares.
I saw not better sport these seven years' day;
I say, my sovereign, York is meetest man
I scorn thee and thy fashion, peevish boy.
I see no reason, if I wear this rose,
I see report is fabulous and false.
I see them lording it in London streets,
I see thy fury; if I longer stay
I seek not to wax great by others' waning
I send thee, Warwick, such a messenger
I shall as famous be by this exploit.
I shall be well content with any choice
I shall not want false witness to condemn me
I shame to hear thee speak. Ah, timorous wretch!
I should have begg'd I might have been employ'd.
I should lament thy miserable state.
I should not for my life but weep with him,
I sold not Maine, I lost not Normandy;
I stood upon the hatches in the storm;
I take it kindly. Yet be well assur'd
I tell thee, Pole, when in the city Tours
I tell you, madam, were the whole frame here,
I tender so the safety of my liege.
I thank them for their tender loving care;
I think I should have told your Grace's tale.
I think he hath a very fair warning.
I think her old familiar is asleep.
I think the Duke of Burgundy will fast
I thought I should have seen some Hercules,
I thought King Henry had resembled thee
I took a costly jewel from my neck-
I trust ere long to choke thee with thine own,
I vow by heaven these eyes shall never close.
I vow'd, base knight, when I did meet thee next
I was employ'd in passing to and fro
I was the next by birth and parentage;
I will make it felony to drink small beer. All the realm shall be
I will not live to be accounted Warwick.
I will repeal thee or, be well assur'd,
I will reward you for this venturous deed.
I will stir up in England some black storm
I will subscribe, and say I wrong'd the Duke.
I wish some ravenous wolf had eaten thee.
I with sudden and extemporal speech
I would assay, proud queen, to make thee blush.
I would be blind with weeping, sick with groans,
I would break a thousand oaths to reign one year.
I would expend it with all willingness.
I would his troubles likewise were expir'd,
I would invent as bitter searching terms,
I would prevail, if prayers might prevail
I would prolong awhile the traitor's life.
I would remove these tedious stumbling-blocks
I would speak blasphemy ere bid you fly;
I would the college of the Cardinals
I would, false murd'rous coward, on thy knee
I' th' parts of France, till term of eighteen months
I'll be the first, sure.
I'll by a sign give notice to our friends,
I'll call for pen and ink, and write my mind.
I'll canvass thee in thy broad cardinal's hat,
I'll either make thee stoop and bend thy knee,
I'll give a thousand pound to look upon him.
I'll have an Iris that shall find thee out.
I'll have thy head for this thy traitor's speech.
I'll lop a member off and give it you
I'll never trouble you, if I may spy them.              Exit
I'll note you in my book of memory
I'll over then to England with this news,
I'll plant Plantagenet, root him up who dares.
I'll see your Grace; till then I'll follow her.
I'll send them all as willing as I live:
I'll shave your crown for this,
I'll sort some other time to visit you.              [Going]
I'll steal away.
I'll to the Duke of Suffolk presently.                  Exit
I'll use to carry thee out of this place.
I'll write unto them, and entreat them fair;
I'll yield myself to prison willingly,
If Dauphin and the rest will be but rul'd.
If Gloucester be displac'd, he'll be Protector.
If I could see them. Now do thou watch,
If I have fewest, I subscribe in silence.
If I now had him brought into my power.
If I to-day die not with Frenchmen's rage,
If I were covetous, ambitious, or perverse,
If Salisbury be lost.
If Salisbury wants mercy at thy hands!
If Talbot but survive thy treachery.
If Talbot do but thunder, rain will follow.
If after three days' space thou here be'st found
If any noise or soldier you perceive
If death be so apparent, then both fly.
If ever lady wrong'd her lord so much,
If from this presence thou dar'st go with me.
If happy England's royal king be free.
If he be guilty, as 'tis published.
If he miscarry, farewell wars in France.
If he revenge it not, yet will his friends;
If he suppose that I have pleaded truth,
If holy churchmen take delight in broils?
If it be banish'd from the frosty head,
If it be fond, can it a woman's fear;
If my suspect be false, forgive me, God;
If not, our swords shall plead it in the field.
If once it be neglected, ten to one
If so, gaze on, and grovel on thy face
If son to Talbot, die at Talbot's foot.
If sympathy of love unite our thoughts.
If the first hour I shrink and run away.
If they can brook I bow a knee to man.
If they perceive dissension in our looks
If they were known, as the suspect is great,
If those that care to keep your royal person
If thou be found by me; thou art but dead.
If thou dar'st bring them to the baiting-place.
If thou proceed in this thy insolence.
If thou receive me for thy warlike mate.
If thou retire, the Dauphin, well appointed,
If thou spy'st any, run and bring me word;
If thou wilt condescend to be my-
If thou wilt fight, fight by thy father's side;
If underneath the standard of the French
If we be English deer, be then in blood;
If we have entrance, as I hope we shall,
If wind and fuel be brought to feed it with;
If with a lady of so high resolve
If you be King, why should not I succeed?
If you be ta'en, we then should see the bottom
If you do censure me by what you were,
If you forsake the offer of their love.
If you go forward; therefore yield or die.
If you oppose yourselves to match Lord Warwick.
Imagine him a Frenchman and thy foe.
Immediately he was upon his knee,
Impatiently I burn with thy desire;
Improvident soldiers! Had your watch been good
In England work your Grace's full content.
In France, amongst a fickle wavering nation;
In Ireland have I seen this stubborn Cade
In any of our towns of garrison.
In blood of those that had encount'red him.
In bringing them to civil discipline,
In complete glory she reveal'd herself;
In confutation of which rude reproach
In courage, courtship, and proportion;
In courtly company or at my beads,
In craving your opinion of my tide,
In cruelty will I seek out my fame.
In dumb significants proclaim your thoughts.
In earnest of a further benefit,
In entertainment to my princely queen.
In face, in gait, in speech, he doth resemble.
In fine, redeem'd I was as I desir'd.
In following this usurping Henry.
In golden palaces, as it becomes.
In honour of a true Plantagenet,
In honour of my noble Lord of York
In iron walls they deem'd me not secure;
In life but double death,'now Gloucester's dead.
In marriage, with a large and sumptuous dowry.
In memory of her, when she is dead,
In my opinion yet thou seest not well.
In open market-place produc'd they me
In our opinions she should be preferr'd;
In pain of your dislike or pain of death,
In presence of the Kings of France and Sicil,
In prison hast thou spent a pilgrimage,
In private will I talk with thee apart.
In sight of England and her lordly peers,
In sight of God and us, your guilt is great;
In sign whereof I pluck a white rose too.
In sign whereof, this arm that hath reclaim'd
In single combat thou shalt buckle with me;
In spite of Burgundy and all his friends.
In spite of Pope or dignities of church,
In spite of us or aught that we could do.
In that he wears the badge of Somerset.
In that thou laid'st a trap to take my life,
In the cathedral church of Westminster,
In thee thy mother dies, our household's name,
In them I trust, for they are soldiers,
In thine own person answer thy abuse.
In thirteen battles Salisbury o'ercame;
In this close walk to satisfy myself
In thy despite shall scape mortality.
In what we can, to bridle and suppress
In which assault we lost twelve hundred men;
In whom the title rested, were suppress'd.
In whose cold blood no spark of honour bides.
In winter's cold and summer's parching heat,
In yonder tower, to overpeer the city,
In yours they will, in you all hopes are lost.
Inferior to none but to his Majesty;
Injurious Duke, that threatest where's no cause.
Inns of Court; down with them all.
Intend here to besiege you in your castle.
Into as many gobbets will I cut it
Into the clust'ring battle of the French;
Into two parties, is now conjoin'd in one,
Invite my Lords of Salisbury and Warwick
Is Beaufort term'd a kite? Where are his talons?
Is able with the change to kill and cure.
Is all thy comfort shut in Gloucester's tomb?
Is all your strict preciseness come to this?
Is as a fury to torment my soul;
Is but a preface of her worthy praise.
Is come with a great power to raise the siege.
Is crept into the bosom of the sea;
Is crept into the palace of our King,
Is crown'd so soon and broke his solemn oath?
Is either slain or wounded dangerous;
Is he a lamb? His skin is surely lent him,
Is his to use, so Somerset may die.
Is likely to beget more conquerors,
Is marching hitherward in proud array,
Is my apparel sumptuous to behold?
Is not his Grace Protector to the King?
Is not itself, nor have we won one foot,
Is slander to your royal dignity.
Is straightway calm'd, and boarded with a pirate;
Is term'd the civil'st place of all this isle.
Is that he was the lord ambassador
Is this Talbot, so much fear'd abroad
Is this the fashions in the court of England?
Is this the government of Britain's isle,
Is to remove proud Somerset from the King,
Is utterly bereft you; all is lost.
Is worthy praise; but shall I speak my conscience?
Is't not enough to break into my garden
It cannot be but he was murd'red here:
It cannot be this weak and writhled shrimp
It could not slake mine ire nor ease my heart.
It dies, an if it had a thousand lives.
It fails not yet, but flourishes in thee
It fitteth not a prelate so to plead.
It grieves my soul to leave thee unassail'd.            Exit
It irks his heart he cannot be reveng'd.
It is applied to a deathful wound.
It is because no one should sway but he;
It is impossible that I should die
It is not that that incens'd hath incens'd the Duke:
It is of such a spacious lofty pitch
It is our pleasure one of them depart;
It is to you, good people, that I speak,
It is war's prize to take all vantages;
It may be judg'd I made the Duke away;
It most of all these reasons bindeth us
It needs not, nor it boots thee not, proud queen;
It shall be stony. York not our old men spares;
It shall be with such strict and severe covenants
It skills not greatly who impugns our doom.
It warm'd thy father's heart with proud desire
It was Alencon that enjoy'd my love.
It was both impious and unnatural
It was the pleasure of my lord the King.
It were but necessary you were wak'd,
It were enough to fright the realm of France.
It will not be-retire into your trenches.
It will outrun you, father, in the end.
It would amaze the proudest of you all.
Jack Cade proclaims himself Lord Mortimer,
John Cade of Ashford,
Join we together for the public good,
Join with the traitor; and they jointly swear
Jove sometime went disguis'd, and why not I?
Just Death, kind umpire of men's miseries,
Just and upright, and for your royal birth
Justice with favour have I always done;
Keep off aloof with worthless emulation.
Keep thou the napkin, and go boast of this;
Keepers, convey him hence; and I myself
Keeping them prisoner underneath her wings.
Kent, in the Commentaries Caesar writ,
King Henry's faithful and anointed queen.
King Henry's peers and chief nobility
King did I call thee? No, thou art not king;
Kneel down and take my blessing, good my girl.
Knight of the noble order of Saint George,
Knights of the Garter were of noble birth,
Knit earth and heaven together!
Know, Cade, we come ambassadors from the King
Knowing how hardly I can brook abuse?
Knowing that thou wouldst have me drown'd on shore
Knowledge the wing wherewith we fly to heaven,
LORD SAY]  The proudest peer in the realm shall not wear a head
Lady Margaret, daughter unto Reignier King of Naples, Sicilia,
Lands, goods, horse, armour, anything I have,
Large gifts have I bestow'd on learned clerks,
Large sums of gold and dowries with their wives;
Lascivious, wanton, more than well beseems
Last time I danc'd attendance on his will
Lay not thy hands on me; forbear, I say,
Lean famine, quartering steel, and climbing fire;
Leap o'er the walls for refuge in the field.
Leaving no heir begotten of his body-
Leaving thy trunk for crows to feed upon.               Exit
Left I the court, to see this quarrel tried.
Lend me a heart replete with thankfulness!
Lest in revenge thereof, sith God is just,
Lest it be said 'Speak, sirrah, when you should;
Lest thou be hated both of God and man.
Lest, being suffer'd in that harmful slumber,
Lest, bleeding, you do paint the white rose red,
Let Henry fret and all the world repine.
Let Somerset be Regent o'er the French,
Let York be Regent; I will yield to him.
Let dying Mortimer here rest himself.
Let frantic Talbot triumph for a while
Let him have all the rigour of the law.
Let him perceive how ill we brook his treason.
Let him that is a true-born gentleman
Let me be umpire in this doubtful strife.
Let me for this my life-time reign as king.
Let me have your express opinions
Let me persuade you take a better course.
Let me persuade you to forbear awhile.
Let me see thine eyes; wink now; now open them;
Let me thy servant and not sovereign be.
Let my presumption not provoke thy wrath,
Let never day nor night unhallowed pass,
Let noble Warwick, Cobham, and the rest,
Let not her penance exceed the King's commission.
Let not your private discord keep away
Let pale-fac'd fear keep with the mean-born man
Let them obey that knows not how to rule;
Let this my sword report what speech forbears.
Let us assail the family of York.
Let us have knowledge at the court of guard.
Let us look in; the sight will much delight thee.
Let us pursue him ere the writs go forth.
Let us resolve to scale their flinty bulwarks.
Let's fight it out and not stand cavilling thus.
Lets fall his sword before your Highness' feet,
Levied an army, weening to redeem
Levy great sums of money through the realm
Like lime-twigs set to catch my winged soul!
Like men born to renown by life or death.
Like peasant foot-boys do they keep the walls,
Like to a pair of loving turtle-doves
Like to a ship that, having scap'd a tempest,
Like to a trusty squire did run away;
Like to the glorious sun's transparent beams,
Like to the summer's corn by tempest lodged.
Lionel Duke of Clarence; next to whom
Live in your country here in banishment
Lives, honours, lands, and all, hurry to loss.          Exit
Lo, I present your Grace a traitor's head,
Lo, there thou stand'st, a breathing valiant man,
Lo, whilst I waited on my tender lambs
Loather a hundred times to part than die.
London Bridge on fire; and, if you can, burn down the Tower too.
London Stone, I charge and command that, of the city's cost, the
London.                                               Exeunt
Long after this, when Henry the Fifth,
Long all of Somerset and his delay.         Exit with forces
Long since we were resolved of your truth,
Long time thy shadow hath been thrall to me,
Look after him, and cannot do him good,
Look not upon me, for thine eyes are wounding;
Look pale as primrose with blood-drinking sighs,
Look to it well, and say you are well warn'd.
Look to it, lords; let not his smoothing words
Look with a gentle eye upon this wretch!
Look, York: I stain'd this napkin with the blood
Look, on the sheets his hair, you see, is sticking;
Looking the way her harmless young one went,
Lord Card'nal, if thou think'st on heaven's bliss,
Lord Cardinal, he is your prisoner.
Lord Clifford vows to fight in thy defence.
Lord Clifford, and Lord Stafford, all abreast,
Lord Cromwell of Wingfield, Lord Furnival of Sheffield,
Lord Strange of Blackmere, Lord Verdun of Alton,
Lord Suffolk, you and I must talk of that event.
Lord Talbot of Goodrig and Urchinfield,
Lord of York's armour.
Lordings, farewell; and say, when I am gone,
Lords, with one cheerful voice welcome my love.
Love for thy love and hand for hand I give.
Lucy, farewell; no more my fortune can
MICHAEL, &c., followers of Cade
Mad ire and wrathful fury makes me weep
Madam, I have a secret to reveal.
Madam, sit you, and fear not: whom we raise
Made impudent with use of evil deeds,
Made issue from the bosom of the boy;
Made me collect these dangers in the Duke.
Mail'd up in shame, with papers on my back,
Main chance, father, you meant; but I meant Maine,
Maine, Blois, Poictiers, and Tours, are won away
Majesty for giving up of Normandy unto Mounsieur Basimecu the
Majesty, do not cast away an honest man for a villain's
Make thee beg pardon for thy passed speech
Make us partakers of a little gain
Makes him oppose himself against his king.
Makes me from wond'ring fall to weeping joys,
Makes me the bolder to salute my king
Makes them thus forward in his banishment.
Malicious practices against his state.
Many a battle have I won in France,
March'd through the city to the palace gates.
Margaret shall now be Queen, and rule the King;
Mark'd for the gallows, lay your weapons down;
Marriage is a matter of more worth
Married Richard Earl of Cambridge, who was
Married the Duke of Clarence' daughter, did he not?
Marry, and shall. But, how now, Sir John Hume!
Marrying my sister, that thy mother was,
Master, this prisoner freely give I thee;
May honourable peace attend thy throne!                 Exit
May never glorious sun reflex his beams
May pass into the presence of a king,
May readily be stopp'd.
May that ground gape, and swallow me alive,
May, even in their wives'and children's sight,
Maz'd with a yelping kennel of French curs!
Me seemeth, then, it is no policy-
Mean and right poor, for that pure blood of mine
Meantime, in signal of my love to thee,
Meet I an infant of the house of York,
Meet me to-morrow in Saint George's field,
Men's flesh preserv'd so whole do seldom win.
Methinks I should not thus be led along,
Methinks I should revive the soldiers' hearts,
Methinks already in this civil broil
Methinks the realms of England, France, and Ireland,
Methought I sat in seat of majesty
Might I but know thee by thy household badge.
Might but redeem the passage of your age!
Might happily have prov'd far worse than his.
Might in thy palace perish Margaret.
Might liquid tears, or heart-offending groans,
Might with a sally of the very town
Mine eyes are full of tears, my heart of grief.
Mine eyes should sparkle like the beaten flint,
Mine hair be fix'd an end, as one distract;
Mischance unto my state by Suffolk's means.
More blessed hap did ne'er befall our state.
More can I bear than you dare execute.
More like a king, more kingly in my thoughts;
More like a soldier than a man o' th' church,
More like an empress than Duke Humphrey's wife.
More rancorous spite, more furious raging broils,
More than I do, except I be provok'd?
More than in women commonly is seen,
More than mistrust, that shows him worthy death.
More venturous or desperate than this.
Mort Dieu!
Mourn not, except thou sorrow for my good;
Mov'd with compassion of my country's wreck,
Mov'd with remorse of these outrageous broils,
Much less to take occasion from their mouths
Much more a knight, a captain, and a leader.
Murder indeed, that bloody sin, I tortur'd
Murder not then the fruit within my womb,
Murder'd sweet Tully; Brutus' bastard hand
Must I behold thy timeless cruel death?
Must be companion of his nuptial bed.
Must not be shed by such a jaded groom.
Must your bold verdict enter talk with lords?'
My Icarus, my blossom, in his pride.
My Lord Protector will, I doubt it not,
My Lord Protector's hawks do tow'r so well;
My Lord of Somerset will keep me here
My Lord of Suffolk, Buckingham, and York,
My Nell, I take my leave- and, master sheriff,
My age was never tainted with such shame.
My ancient incantations are too weak,
My body round engirt with misery-
My brain, more busy than the labouring spider,
My breast I'll burst with straining of my courage.
My brother Montague shall post to London.
My conscience tells me you are innocent.
My courage try by combat if thou dar'st,
My daughter shall be Henry's, if he please.
My death's revenge, thy youth, and England's fame.
My earnest-gaping sight of thy land's view,
My father, Earl of Cambridge, lost his head.
My foot shall fight with all the strength thou hast,
My forces and my power of men are yours;
My gracious lord, here in the parliament
My grisly countenance made others fly;
My hand would free her, but my heart says no.
My heart and hands thou hast at once subdu'd.
My heart for anger burns; I cannot brook it.
My heart is turn'd to stone; and while 'tis mine
My liefest liege to be mine enemy;
My mind was troubled with deep melancholy.
My mother, being heir unto the crown,
My noble Lord of Suffolk, or for that
My sighs and tears and will not once relent?
My sons- God knows what hath bechanced them;
My soul flies through these wounds to seek out Thee.
My soul to heaven, my blood upon your heads!
My spirit can no longer bear these harms.
My stay, my guide, and lantern to my feet.
My sword should shed hot blood, mine eyes no tears.
My tear-stain'd eyes to see her miseries.
My tender years; and let us not forgo
My tender youth was never yet attaint
My thoughts that labour to persuade my soul
My title's good, and better far than his.
My tongue should stumble in mine earnest words,
My troublous dreams this night doth make me sad.
My uncles both are slain in rescuing me;
My wit untrain'd in any kind of art.
My worth unknown, no loss is known in me;
Myself and Beaufort had him in protection;
Myself and divers gentlemen beside
Myself had notice of your conventicles-
Myself have calm'd their spleenful mutiny
Myself have heard a voice to call him so.
Myself no joy in nought but that thou liv'st.
Nay, do not fright us with an angry look.
Nay, more, an enemy unto you all,
Ne'er heard I of a warlike enterprise
Ne'er shall this blood be wiped from thy point,
Near to the walls, by some apparent sign
Nestor-like aged in an age of care,
Never so needful on the earth of France,
Never to England shall he bear his life,
Never yet did base dishonour blur our name
Never yet taint with love, I send the King.
Next time I'll keep my dreams unto myself
Next, if I be appointed for the place,
No hope to have redress? My body shall
No longer on Saint Denis will we cry,
No loving token to his Majesty?
No more but plain and bluntly 'To the King!'
No more can I be severed from your side
No more will I their babes. Tears virginal
No more, I say; if thou dost plead for him,
No more, good York; sweet Somerset, be still.
No one but he should be about the King;
No princely commendations to my king?
No prophet will I trust if she prove false.           Exeunt
No shape but his can please your dainty eye.
No sooner was I crept out of my cradle
No way to that, for weakness, which she ent'red.
No, Lord Ambassador; I'll rather keep
No, if I digg'd up thy forefathers' graves
No, it will hang upon my richest robes
No, misconceived! Joan of Arc hath been
No, my good lords, it is not that offends;
No, no, my sovereign, Gloucester is a man
No, prelate; such is thy audacious wickedness,
No; dark shall be my light and night my day;
No; first shall war unpeople this my realm;
No; let him die, in that he is a fox,
No; many a pound of mine own proper store,
Noble she is; but if she have forgot
None durst come near for fear of sudden death.
Nor any of his false confederates.
Nor any of the house of Lancaster?
Nor be rebellious to the crown of England
Nor cease to be an arrogant controller,
Nor change my countenance for this arrest:
Nor ever had one penny bribe from France.
Nor grieve that Rouen is so recovered.
Nor hold the sceptre in his childish fist,
Nor knows he how to live but by the spoil,
Nor let the rain of heaven wet this place
Nor never seek prevention of thy foes.
Nor other satisfaction do I crave
Nor set no footing on this unkind shore'?
Nor shall proud Lancaster usurp my right,
Nor should that nation boast it so with us,
Nor stir at nothing till the axe of death
Nor store of treasons to augment my guilt.
Nor wear the diadem upon his head,
Nor yet Saint Philip's daughters were like thee.
Not fearing death nor shrinking for distress,
Not fit to govern and rule multitudes,
Not me begotten of a shepherd swain,
Not rascal-like to fall down with a pinch,
Not seeing what is likely to ensue.
Not what you are, I know it will excuse
Not whom we will, but whom his Grace affects,
Nothing so heavy as these woes of mine.
Now 'tis the spring, and weeds are shallow-rooted;
Now Phaethon hath tumbled from his car,
Now am I like that proud insulting ship
Now beat them hence; why do you let them stay?
Now get thee hence: the King, thou know'st, is coming;
Now have I paid my vow unto his soul;
Now he is gone, my lord, you need not fear.
Now help, ye charming spells and periapts;
Now in his life, against your holy oath?
Now in the rearward comes the Duke and his.
Now is it manhood, wisdom, and defence,
Now it is supper-time in Orleans:
Now let the general trumpet blow his blast,
Now like to whelps we crying run away.
Now my old arms are young John Talbot's grave.        [Dies]
Now she is there, how will she specify
Now show yourselves men; 'tis for liberty.
Now thou art come unto a feast of death,
Now thou art seal'd the son of chivalry?
Now thou dost penance too. Look how they gaze!
Now where's the Bastard's braves, and Charles his gleeks?
Now will I dam up this thy yawning mouth
Now will we take some order in the town,
Now, France, thy glory droopeth to the dust.            Exit
Now, Salisbury, for thee, and for the right
Now, by my faith, lords, 'twas a glorious day:
Now, by the ground that I am banish'd from,
Now, pray, my lord, let's see the devil's writ.
Now, when the angry trumpet sounds alarum
Now, ye familiar spirits that are cull'd
O Warwick, Warwick! I foresee with grief
O fairest beauty, do not fear nor fly!
O monstrous treachery! Can this be so
O peers of England, shameful is this league!
O that I could but can these dead to life!
O thou whose wounds become hard-favoured Death,
O tiger's heart wrapp'd in a woman's hide!
O'er him whom heaven created for thy ruler.
O'er whom, in time to come, I hope to reign;
O'ercharging your free purses with large fines;
O'ertake me if thou canst; I scorn thy strength.
O, 'tis a fault too too
O, I could hew up rocks and fight with flint,
O, beat away the busy meddling fiend
O, burn her, burn her! Hanging is too good.             Exit
O, could this kiss be printed in thy hand,
O, go not yet! Even thus two friends condemn'd
O, hold me not with silence over-long!
O, let me live!
O, let me stay, befall what may befall!
O, let me view his visage, being dead,
O, let the vile world end
O, negligent and heedless discipline!
O, stay!  [Aside]  I have no power to let her pass;
O, tell me when my lips do touch his cheeks,
O, ten times more- than tigers of Hyrcania.
O, think upon the conquest of my father,
O, too much folly is it, well I wot,
O, torture me no more! I will confess.
O, turn thy edged sword another way;
O, were mine eye-bans into bullets turn'd,
O, what a scandal is it to our crown
O, where is faith? O, where is loyalty?
O, where's young Talbot? Where is valiant John?
O, would I were to die with Salisbury!
Obey, audacious traitor; kneel for grace.
Of Edmund Mortimer, who married Philippe,
Of Edward king, the third of that descent;
Of English Henry, shall this night appear
Of Essex, Norfolk, Suffolk, nor of Kent,
Of Lady Eleanor, the Protector's wife,
Of all his wars within the realm of France?
Of all our fortunes; but if we haply scape-
Of an invincible unconquer'd spirit!
Of ashy semblance, meagre, pale, and bloodless,
Of base insinuating flattery,
Of beauteous Margaret hath astonish'd me.
Of benefit proceeding from our king
Of bold-fac'd victory. Then leaden age,
Of both the Sicils and Jerusalem,
Of capital treason 'gainst the King and crown.
Of gallowglasses and stout kerns
Of hinds and peasants, rude and merciless;
Of horsemen that were levied for this siege!
Of mere compassion and of lenity,
Of purpose to obscure my noble birth.
Of such as your oppression feeds upon,
Of that great shadow I did represent:
Of the most bloody nurser of his harms!
Of thy first fight, I soon encountered
Of thy nativity. I would the milk
Of your accustom'd diligence to me.
Off with the crown and with the crown his head;
Oft have I seen a timely-parted ghost,
Oft have I seen the haughty Cardinal-
Old Salisbury, shame to thy silver hair,
Omitting Suffolk's exile, my soul's treasure?
On any ground that I am ruler of,
On any plot of ground in Christendom.
On either hand thee there are squadrons pitch'd
On him, his sons, his favourites, and his friends.
On sheep or oxen could I spend my fury.
On that advantage, bought with such a shame,
On us thou canst not enter but by death;
On which I'll toss the flower-de-luce of France.
Once by the King and three times thrice by thee,
Once, in contempt, they would have barter'd me;
One drop of blood drawn from thy country's bosom
One eye thou hast to look to heaven for grace;
One of thy eyes and thy cheek's side struck off!
One sudden foil shall never breed distrust
One that still motions war and never peace,
Only convey me where thou art commanded.
Only give order for my funeral.
Only reserv'd, you claim no interest
Only this proof I'll of thy valour make
Open the gates, or I'll shut thee out shortly.
Open the gates; 'tis Gloucester that calls.
Open the gates; here's Gloucester that would enter.
Opinion shall be surgeon to my hurt
Oppose himself against a troop of kerns,
Oppose thy steadfast-gazing eyes to mine;
Or I should breathe it so into thy body,
Or I will fill the house with armed men,
Or I would see his heart out ere the priest
Or Somerset or York, all's one to me.
Or all my fence shall fail.
Or any groat I hoarded to my use,
Or as the snake, roll'd in a flow'ring bank,
Or as the south to the septentrion.
Or aught intend'st to lay unto my charge,
Or banished fair England's territories,
Or be admitted to your Highness' Council.
Or be inferior to the proudest peer.
Or been reguerdon'd with so much as thanks,
Or blood-consuming sighs, recall his life,
Or by what means got'st thou to be releas'd?
Or count them happy that enjoy the sun?
Or dare to bring thy force so near the court.
Or doth this churlish superscription
Or durst not for his craven heart say thus.
Or else conclude my words effectual.
Or else let Talbot perish with this shame.
Or else reproach be Talbot's greatest fame!
Or else this blow should broach thy dearest blood.
Or else was wrangling Somerset in th' error?
Or else, when thou didst keep my lambs afield,
Or felt that pain which I did for him once,
Or flourish to the height of my degree.
Or foul felonious thief that fleec'd poor passengers,
Or gather wealth I care not with what envy;
Or hath mine uncle Beaufort and myself,
Or horse or oxen from the leopard,
Or how haps it I seek not to advance
Or if he were not privy to those faults,
Or is he but retir'd to make him strong?
Or lambs pursu'd by hunger-starved wolves.
Or let a rebel lead you to your deaths?
Or like an overcharged gun, recoil,
Or live in peace abandon'd and despis'd!
Or make my ill th' advantage of my good.                Exit
Or more afraid to fight, than is the appellant,
Or nature makes me suddenly relent.
Or nourish'd him as I did with my blood,
Or of devotion, to this holy shrine?
Or one that at a triumph, having vow'd
Or raise myself, but keep my wonted calling?
Or sack this country with a mutiny.                   Exeunt
Or sell my title for a glorious grave.
Or tear the lions out of England's coat;
Or thou shouldst find thou hast dishonour'd me.
Or to exclaim on fortune's fickleness.
Or to the meanest groom.
Or turn our stern upon a dreadful rock?
Or unto death, to do my country good.
Or we will plague thee with incessant wars.
Or we'll burst them open, if that you come not quickly.
Or wherefore dost abuse it, if thou hast it?
Or whether that such cowards ought to wear
Or who should study to prefer a peace,
Or why thou, being a subject as I am,
Or will you blame and lay the fault on me?
Or with light skirmishes enfeebled.
Or with their blood stain this discoloured shore.
Or, with the rest, where is your darling Rutland?
Orleans the Bastard, Charles, Burgundy,
Other affairs must now be managed.
Otherwise I renounce all confidence.
Our English troops retire, I cannot stay them;
Our army is ready; come, we'll after them.
Our great progenitors had conquered?
Our kinsman Gloucester is as innocent
Our nation's terror and their bloody scourge!
Our simple supper ended, give me leave
Our windows are broke down in every street,
Ourself, my Lord Protector, and the rest,
Out of a great deal of old iron I chose forth.
Out of the powerful regions under earth,
Out, some light horsemen, and peruse their wings.
Out, tawny-coats! Out, scarlet hypocrite!
Outcast of Naples, England's bloody scourge!
Pardon me, princely Henry, and the rest:
Pardon, my liege, that I have stay'd so long.
Paris is lost; the state of Normandy
Particularities and petty sounds
Pay recompense, if you will grant my suit.
Peace with his soul, heaven, if it be thy will!         Exit
Pernicious Protector, dangerous peer,
Pernicious blood-sucker of sleeping men.
Persuaded him from any further act;
Peter, thou hast prevail'd in right!
Pirates may make cheap pennyworths of their pillage,
Pity the city of London, pity us!
Pity was all the fault that was in me;
Place barrels of pitch upon the fatal stake,
Placing therein some expert officers;
Plantagenet, I will; and like thee, Nero,
Play on the lute, beholding the towns burn.
Pluck a red rose from off this thorn with me.
Pompey the Great; and Suffolk dies by pirates.
Poor boy! he smiles, methinks, as who should say,
Poor gentleman! his wrong doth equal mine.
Poor market-folks that come to sell their corn.
Pope.
Pray God he may acquit him of suspicion!
Pray God the Duke of York excuse himself!
Pray'rs and tears have mov'd me, gifts could never.
Pray, uncle Gloucester, mitigate this strife.
Presumptuous dame, ill-nurtur'd Eleanor!
Presumptuous vassals, are you not asham'd
Pretend some alteration in good-will?
Prettily, methought, did play the orator.
Prick'd on by public wrongs sustain'd in France,
Priests pray for enemies, but princes kill.             Exit
Proceed no straiter 'gainst our uncle Gloucester
Proclaim them traitors that are up with Cade;
Profaning this most honourable order,
Proffers his only daughter to your Grace
Pronouncing that the paleness of this flower
Prosper our colours in this dangerous fight!          Exeunt
Protector be; and God shall be my hope,
Protector, see to't well; protect yourself.
Protector.
Protector?
Proud northern lord, Clifford of Cumberland,
Prove them, and I lie open to the law;
Provokes the mightiest hulk against the tide,
Pucelle is ent'red into Orleans
Pucelle or puzzel, dolphin or dogfish,
Purpose to answer what thou canst object.
Put forth thy hand, reach at the glorious gold.
Question her proudly; let thy looks be stern;
Quicken'd with youthful spleen and warlike rage,
Quiet yourselves, I pray, and be at peace.
Quite to forget this quarrel and the cause.
Quitting thee thereby of ten thousand shames,
Raising up wicked spirits from under ground,
Rancour will out: proud prelate, in thy face
Rate me at what thou wilt, thou shalt be paid.
Rather than I would be so vile esteem'd.
Rather than bloody war shall cut them short,
Rather than have made that savage duke thine heir,
Rather than life preserv'd with infamy.
Razeth your cities, and subverts your towns,
Razing the characters of your renown,
Ready they were to shoot me to the heart.
Ready to starve and dare not touch his own.
Receiv'd deep scars in France and Normandy?
Receive the sentence of the law for sins
Recover'd is the town of Orleans.
Reignier, stand thou as Dauphin in my place;
Reigns in the hearts of all our present parts.
Remember it, and let it make thee crestfall'n,
Remember to avenge me on the French.'
Renounce your soil, give sheep in lions' stead:
Renowned Talbot doth expect my aid,
Repairs him with occasion? This happy day
Repeat their semblance often on the seas,
Reprove my allegation if you can,
Rescu'd is Orleans from the English.
Resign to death- it is not worth th' enjoying.
Resign'd the crown to Henry the Fourth,
Resolve on this: thou shalt be fortunate
Resolve thee, Richard; claim the English crown.
Respecting what a rancorous mind he bears,
Retain but privilege of a private man?
Return thee therefore with a flood of tears,
Reveng'd may she be on that hateful Duke,
Richard cried 'Charge, and give no foot of ground!'
Richard shall live to make the Earl of Warwick
Richard.                                                Exit
Ring bells aloud, burn bonfires clear and bright,
Rise, Richard, like a true Plantagenet,
Roger had issue, Edmund, Anne, and Eleanor.
Rough deeds of rage and stern impatience;
Rous'd on the sudden from their drowsy beds,
Rul'd like a wandering planet over me,
Run back and bite, because he was withheld;
SENTINEL. Arm! arm! The enemy doth make assault.
Safer shall he be upon the sandy plains
Safer shall he be upon the sandy plains
Saint Albans' battle, won by famous York,
Salisbury and Warwick are no simple peers.
Salisbury, and Warwick;
Salisbury, cheer thy spirit with this comfort,
Save to the God of heaven and to my king;
Say 'Who's a traitor? Gloucester he is none.'           Exit
Say as you think, and speak it from your souls:
Say but the word, and I will be his priest.
Say he be taken, rack'd, and tortured;
Say if thou dar'st, proud Lord of Warwickshire,
Say that he thrive, as 'tis great like he will,
Say we intend to try his Grace to-day,
Say you consent and censure well the deed,
Say, gentlemen, what makes you thus exclaim,
Saying the sanguine colour of the leaves
Scorning whate'er you can afflict me with.
Seal up your lips and give no words but mum:
Seditious to his Grace and to the state.
See here, my friends and loving countrymen:
See how the giddy multitude do point
See how the ugly witch doth bend her brows
See if thou canst outface me with thy looks;
See then, thou fight'st against thy countrymen,
See where he lies inhearsed in the arms
See where they come: I'll warrant they'll make it good.
See you well guerdon'd for these good deserts.
See! they forsake me. Now the time is come
See, Reignier, see, thy daughter prisoner!
See, ruthless queen, a hapless father's tears.
See, see the pining malady of France;
Seeing the deed is meritorious,
Seeing thou hast prov'd so unnatural a father!
Seems he a dove? His feathers are but borrow'd,
Seiz'd on the realm, depos'd the rightful king,
Sell every man his life as dear as mine,
Send succours, lords, and stop the rage betime,
Sent from a sort of tinkers to the King.
Sent from our uncle Duke of Burgundy.
Sent his poor queen to France, from whence she came.
Servant in arms to Harry King of England;
Set all upon me, mighty sovereign.
Set from our o'er-match'd forces forth for aid.
Set limb to limb, and thou art far the lesser;
Seven earls, twelve barons, and twenty reverend bishops,
Shake he his weapon at us and pass by.
Shaking the bloody darts as he his bells.
Shall Henry's conquest, Bedford's vigilance,
Shall I be flouted thus by dunghill grooms?
Shall I endure the sight of Somerset?
Shall I not live to be aveng'd on her?
Shall I, for lucre of the rest unvanquish'd,
Shall Suffolk ever have of Margaret.          [She is going]
Shall be engrav'd the sack of Orleans,
Shall be eterniz'd in all age to come.
Shall be my winding-sheet. Why faint you, lords?
Shall be the surety for their traitor father.
Shall be the war that Henry means to use.
Shall be their father's bail; and bane to those
Shall be to me even as the dew to fire;
Shall be transported presently to France.
Shall be wip'd out in the next Parliament,
Shall blow ten thousand souls to heaven or hell;
Shall dye your white rose in a bloody red.
Shall find their deaths, if York can prophesy.
Shall have a thousand crowns for his reward.
Shall in procession sing her endless praise.
Shall lay your stately and air braving towers,
Shall lose his head for his presumption.
Shall one day make the Duke of York a king.
Shall pitch a field when we are dead.          [Begin again]
Shall rust upon my weapon, till thy blood,
Shall see thee withered, bloody, pale, and dead.
Shall send between the Red Rose and the White
Shall to my flaming wrath be oil and flax.
Shall we at last conclude effeminate peace?
Shall we give o'er Orleans, or no?
Shall yield the other in the right opinion.
Shall, after three days' open penance done,
Sharp Buckingham unburdens with his tongue
She bears a duke's revenues on her back,
She carry armour as she hath begun.
She is a woman, therefore to be won.
She is content to be at your command
She is hard by with twenty thousand men;
She shall not strike Dame Eleanor unreveng'd.           Exit
She should have stay'd in France, and starv'd in France,
She sweeps it through the court with troops of ladies,
She vaunted 'mongst her minions t' other day
She was the first fruit of my bach'lorship.
She'll gallop far enough to her destruction.            Exit
She'll hamper thee and dandle thee like a baby.
She's tickled now; her fume needs no spurs,
Sheep run not half so treacherous from the wolf,
Should I not curse them. Poison be their drink!
Should be delivered to his Holiness
Should be to be protected like a child.
Should bring thy father to his drooping chair.
Should ever get that privilege of me.
Should grieve thee more than streams of foreign gore.
Should make a start o'er seas and vanquish you?
Should perish by the sword! And I myself,
Should raise so great a power without his leave,
Should reign among professors of one faith.
Should strike such terror to his enemies.
Show me one scar character'd on thy skin:
Since Henry Monmouth first began to reign,
Since Henry's death, I fear, there is conveyance.
Since I have entered into these wars.
Since thou wert king- as who is king but thou?-
Sings heavy music to thy timorous soul;
Sir Humphrey Stafford and his brother's death
Sir Thomas Gargrave and Sir William Glansdale,
Sir Thomas Gargrave, hast thou any life?
Sirrah beadle, whip him till he leap over that same stool.
Sirrah, call in my sons to be my bail:        Exit attendant
Sirrah, what's thy name?
Sirs, what's o'clock?
Sits in grim majesty to fright the world.
Sleeping neglection doth betray to loss
Sleeping or waking, 'tis no matter how,
Sleeping or waking, must I still prevail
Small curs are not regarded when they grin,
Small things make base men proud: this villain here,
Smooth runs the water where the brook is deep,
So Suffolk had thy heavenly company;
So York must sit and fret and bite his tongue,
So am I driven by breath of her renown
So bear I thee upon my manly shoulders;
So bees with smoke and doves with noisome stench
So cares and joys abound, as seasons fleet.
So clear, so shining, and so evident,
So desperate thieves, all hopeless of their lives,
So doth the swan her downy cygnets save,
So doves do peck the falcon's piercing talons;
So fare my limbs with long imprisonment;
So full-replete with choice of all delights,
So good a quarrel and so bad a peer.
So great fear of my name 'mongst them was spread
So he be dead; for that is good deceit
So help me God, as I dissemble not!
So help me God, as I have watch'd the night-
So kind a father of the commonweal,
So let them have their answers every one.
So let us still continue peace and love.
So long as I am loyal, true, and crimeless.
So many captains, gentlemen, and soldiers,
So mighty are his vowed enemies.
So much applauded through the realm of France?
So one by one we'll weed them all at last,
So please your Highness to behold the fight.
So seems this gorgeous beauty to mine eyes.
So shall his father's wrongs be recompens'd.
So shall my name with slander's tongue be wounded,
So should we save a valiant gentleman
So shouldst thou either turn my flying soul,
So sure I swear to get the town or die.
So thou wilt let me live and feel no pain.
So true men yield, with robbers so o'er-match'd.
So was his will in his old feeble body.
So will the Queen, that living held him dear.
So will this base and envious discord breed.
So wish I, I might thrust thy soul to hell.
So worthless peasants bargain for their wives,
So you do condescend to help me now.
So, farewell, Reignier. Set this diamond safe
So, farewell, Talbot; I'll no longer trust thee.
So, get thee gone, that I may know my grief;
So, if the issue of the elder son
So, in the famous ancient city Tours,
So, let her rest. And, madam, list to me,
So, now dismiss your army when ye please;
So, rushing in the bowels of the French,
Soldiers, I thank you all; disperse yourselves;
Soldiers, adieu! I have what I would have,
Soldiers, defer the spoil of the city until night; for with these
Soldiers, this day have you redeem'd your lives,
Sole daughter unto Lionel Duke of Clarence;
Solicit Henry with her wondrous praise.
Some of his bastard blood; and in disgrace
Some stern untutor'd churl, and noble stock
Some sudden qualm hath struck me at the heart,
Some violent hands were laid on Humphrey's life!
Some words there grew 'twixt Somerset and me;
Something I must do to procure me grace.
Sometime he talks as if Duke Humphrey's ghost
Sometimes I'll say I am Duke Humphrey's wife,
Sorrow and grief have vanquish'd all my powers;
Sorrow would solace, and mine age would ease.
Sorry I am to hear what I have heard.
Sort how it will, I shall have gold for all.            Exit
Sound drum and trumpets and to London all;
Sound, trumpets, alarum to the combatants!
Spare England, for it is your native coast.
Spare for no fagots, let there be enow.
Spare none but such as go in clouted shoon,
Speak to thy father ere thou yield thy breath!
Speak unto Talbot; nay, look up to him.
Speak, Salisbury; at least, if thou canst speak.
Speak, shall I call her in? Believe my words,
Spring crestless yeomen from so deep a root?
Spur to the rescue of the noble Talbot,
Stabb'd Julius Caesar; savage islanders
Stafford, take her to thee.
Stain'd with the guiltless blood of innocents,
Stamp, rave, and fret, that I may sing and dance.
Stand back, you lords, and give us leave awhile.
Stand'st thou aloof upon comparison?
Stands on a tickle point now they are gone.
Stands with the snares of war to tangle thee.
Stanley, I prithee go, and take me hence;
Staring full ghastly like a strangled man;
Stay, go, do what you will, the like do I;
Stay, let thy humble handmaid speak to thee.
Steel, if thou turn the edge, or cut not out the burly bon'd
Stern Falconbridge commands the narrow seas;
Still lamenting and mourning for Suffolk's death?
Still revelling like lords till all be gone;
Stinking and fly-blown lies here at our feet.
Stoop to the block than these knees bow to any
Strange tortures for offenders, never heard of,
Strangers in court do take her for the Queen.
Strike off his head.
Strike those that hurt, and hurt not those that help!
Strong fixed is the house of Lancaster
Strumpet, thy words condemn thy brat and thee.
Studied so long, sat in the Council House
Succeed before the younger, I am King.
Succeeding his father Bolingbroke, did reign,
Such as by God's book are adjudg'd to death.
Such as were grown to credit by the wars;
Such factious emulations shall arise!
Such fierce alarums both of hope and fear,
Such is the fulness of my heart's content.
Suddenly made him from my side to start
Suffer them now, and they'll o'ergrow the garden
Sufficeth that I have maintains my state,
Suffolk concluded on the articles;
Suffolk, the new-made duke that rules the roast,
Summon a parley; we will talk with him.
Summon their general unto the wall.
Surely, by all the glory you have won,
Swear like a ruffian and demean himself
Swearing that you withhold his levied host,
Sweet Clifford, hear me speak before I die.
Sweet Nell, ill can thy noble mind abrook
Sweet is the country, because full of riches;
Swift-winged with desire to get a grave,
Sword, I will hallow thee for this thy deed
Sword, hold thy temper; heart, be wrathful still:
Take heed, be wary how you place your words;
Take heed, my lord; the welfare of us all
Take him away, and behead him.
Take therefore shipping; post, my lord, to France;
Talbot,
Talk like the vulgar sort of market-men
Tantaene animis coelestibus irae?
Taste of your wine and see what cates you have,
Tell him I'll send Duke Edmund to the Tower-
Tell me, may not a king adopt an heir?
Tell me, my friend, art thou the man that slew him?
Ten thousand French have ta'en the sacrament
Tend'ring my ruin and assail'd of none,
Tends to God's glory and my country's weal.
Th' uncivil kerns of Ireland are in arms
Than Bargulus, the strong Illyrian pirate.
Than I am able to instruct or teach;
Than Rhodope's of Memphis ever was.
Than all the princes in the land beside;
Than any thou canst conjure up to-day;
Than bring a burden of dishonour home
Than can yourself yourself yourself in twain divide.
Than drops of blood were in my father's veins.
Than from true evidence, of good esteem,
Than is a slave in base servility;
Than stand uncover'd to the vulgar groom.
Than the rich jewel'd coffer of Darius,
Than this kind kiss. O Lord, that lends me life,
Than to be dealt in by attorneyship;
Than wanton dalliance with a paramour.
Than when thou wert Protector to thy King.
Than where castles mounted stand.
Than where castles mounted stand.'
Than yet can be imagin'd or suppos'd.
Than you should stoop unto a Frenchman's mercy.
That Alexander Iden, an esquire of Kent,
That Cardinal Beaufort is at point of death;
That Charles the Dauphin may encounter them.
That England was defam'd by tyranny.
That France must vail her lofty-plumed crest
That Henry born at Monmouth should win all,
That I am faulty in Duke Humphrey's death.
That I have given no answer all this while;
That I in rage might shoot them at your faces!
That I may dew it with my mournful tears;
That I may kindly give one fainting kiss.
That I, thy enemy, due thee withal;
That Lady Margaret do vouchsafe to come
That Maine which by main force Warwick did win,
That Margaret may be England's royal Queen.
That Margaret shall be Queen, and none but she.
That Richard be restored to his blood.
That Suffolk doth not flatter, face, or feign.
That Suffolk should demand a whole fifteenth
That Talbot is but shadow of himself?
That Talbot's name might be in thee reviv'd
That York is most unmeet of any man.
That all the court admir'd him for submission.
That any one should therefore be suspicious
That any purblind eye may find it out.
That basely fled when noble Talbot stood.
That bears so shrewd a maim: two pulls at once-
That beauty am I bless'd with which you may see.
That beggars mounted run their horse to death.
That bows unto the grave with mickle age.
That come to gather money for their corn.
That could not live asunder day or night.
That dims the honour of this warlike isle!
That dogg'd the mighty army of the Dauphin?
That doit that e'er I wrested from the King,
That doth accuse his master of high treason;
That doth belong unto the house of York,
That doth presume to boast of gentle blood.
That drag the tragic melancholy night;
That droops his sapless branches to the ground.
That e'er I prov'd thee false or fear'd thy faith.
That erst did follow thy proud chariot wheels
That even now he cries aloud for him.
That ever did contain a thing of worth.
That ever-living man of memory,
That faultless may condemn a nobleman!
That for a toy, a thing of no regard,
That for a trifle that was bought with blood!
That for my surety will refuse the boys!
That for the beauty thinks it excellent.
That gnaws the bowels of the commonwealth.
That gold must round engirt these brows of mine,
That good Duke Humphrey traitorously is murd'red
That grudge one thought against your Majesty!
That hardly can I check my eyes from tears.
That hardly we escap'd the pride of France.             Exit
That hast by tyranny these many years
That hath authority over him that swears.
That hath contriv'd this woeful tragedy!
That hath dishonoured Gloucester's honest name.
That hath so long been resident in France?
That he is march'd to Bordeaux with his power
That he should be so abject, base, and poor,
That he should come about your royal person
That he that breaks a stick of Gloucester's grove
That head of thine doth not become a crown;
That henceforth he shall trouble us no more.
That if it chance the one of us do fail
That if your Highness should intend to sleep
That in alliance, amity, and oaths,
That in this quarrel have been overthrown
That it will glimmer through a blind man's eye.
That joineth Rouen unto her countrymen,
That keeps his leaves in spite of any storm,
That lays strong siege unto this wretch's soul,
That living wrought me such exceeding trouble.
That makes him close his eyes? I'll open them.
That makes him gasp, and stare, and catch the air,
That malice was a great and grievous sin;
That many have their giddy brains knock'd out.
That mounts no higher than a bird can soar.
That neither in birth or for authority
That not a tear can fall for Rutland's death?
That now our loss might be ten times so much?
That one day bloom'd and fruitful were the next.
That peaceful truce shall be proclaim'd in France,
That raught at mountains with outstretched arms,
That seeks to overthrow religion,
That shall be scoured in his rancorous heart
That shall maintain what I have said is true,
That shall make answer to such questions
That shall salute our rightful sovereign
That she may boast she hath beheld the man
That she will light to listen to the lays,
That slanders me with murder's crimson badge.
That slily glided towards your Majesty,
That smooth'st it so with King and commonweal.
That so he might recover what was lost.
That so her torture may be shortened.
That speaks he knows not what?
That stout Pendragon in his litter sick
That such a valiant company are fled.
That such immanity and bloody strife
That sund'red friends greet in the hour of death.
That therefore I have forg'd, or am not able
That these great lords, and Margaret our Queen,
That they suppos'd I could rend bars of steel
That they will guard you, whe'er you will or no,
That this is true, father, behold his blood.
That this my death may never be forgot-
That those which fly before the battle ends
That thou might'st think upon these by the seal,
That thou nor none of thine shall be let in.
That thou thyself was born in bastardy;
That thus delays my promised supply
That thus he marcheth with thee arm in arm?
That thus we die while remiss traitors sleep.
That thus you do exclaim you'll go with him?
That time best fits the work we have in hand.
That trembles under his devouring paws;
That two such noble peers as ye should jar!
That valiant Clifford with his rapier's point
That virtuous prince, the good Duke Humphrey;
That walk'd about me every minute-while;
That want their leader, scatter up and down
That warranteth by law to be thy privilege:
That we are here.                      Exeunt from the walls
That we are those which chas'd you from the field,
That we do make our entrance several ways;
That we for thee may glorify the Lord.
That were a state fit for his holiness.
That were unworthy to behold the same?
That which I have than, coveting for more,
That whoso draws a sword 'tis present death,
That will forsake thee and go home in peace.
That will not trust thee but for profit's sake?
That winter lion, who in rage forgets
That with his name the mothers still their babes?
That with the very shaking of their chains
That you elect no other king but him,
That you on my behalf would pluck a flower.
That you will clear yourself from all suspense.
That, Talbot dead, great York might bear the name.
That, being captain of the watch to-night,
That, in regard King Henry gives consent,
That, when thou com'st to kneel at Henry's feet,
The Bishop and the Duke of Gloucester's men,
The Bishop will be overborne by thee.
The Cardinal of Winchester forbids.
The Castle in Saint Albans, Somerset
The Christian prince, King Henry, were he here.
The Dauphin hath prevail'd beyond the seas,
The Dauphin, with one Joan la Pucelle join'd,
The Duchess, by his subornation,
The Duke is made Protector of the realm;
The Duke is virtuous, mild, and too well given
The Duke of Somerset is in the Tower.
The Duke of Somerset, whom he terms a traitor.
The Duke of Suffolk, William de la Pole.
The Duke of York is newly come from Ireland
The Duke was dumb and could not speak a word.
The Dukes of Orleans, Calaber, Bretagne, and Alencon,
The Earl of Armagnac, near knit to Charles,
The Earl of Warwick and the Duke enforc'd me.
The Emperor, and the Earl of Armagnac?
The King and all the peers are here at hand.
The King hath sent him, sure: I must dissemble.
The King hath yielded unto thy demand:
The King is merciful if you revolt.
The King is now in progress towards Saint Albans,
The King of Naples and Jerusalem;
The King of Naples-whosoe'er thou art.
The King will labour still to save his life;
The King, thy sovereign, is not quite exempt
The Lord Mayor craves aid of your honour from the
The Nevils are thy subjects to command.
The Prince's espials have informed me
The Regent hath with Talbot broke his word
The Turk, that two and fifty kingdoms hath,
The abject people gazing on thy face,
The agent of thy foul inconstancy-
The ancient proverb will be well effected:
The argument you held was wrong in you;
The armourer and his man, to enter the lists,
The army of the Queen mean to besiege us.
The burning torch in yonder turret stands.
The business asketh silent secrecy.
The cause why I have brought this army hither
The chief perfections of that lovely dame,
The citizens fly and forsake their houses;
The commons haply rise to save his life;
The commons here in Kent are up in arms;
The commons, like an angry hive of bees
The commonwealth hath daily run to wrack,
The conquest of our scarce cold conqueror,
The contrary doth make thee wond'red at.
The coward horse that bears me fall and die!
The crown of England, father, which is yours.
The crown to thee and to thine heirs for ever;
The cry of Talbot serves me for a sword;
The elder of them being put to nurse,
The eldest son and heir of John of Gaunt,
The envious barking of your saucy tongue
The envious load that lies upon his heart;
The fairest queen that ever king receiv'd.
The false revolting Normans thorough thee
The fearful French, whom you late vanquished,
The fewest roses are cropp'd from the tree
The fifth was Edmund Langley, Duke of York;
The first, Edward the Black Prince, Prince of Wales;
The first-begotten and the lawful heir
The fourth son: York claims it from the third.
The fox barks not when he would steal the lamb.
The garden here is more convenient.
The greatest man in England but the King.             Exeunt
The happiest gift that ever marquis gave,
The head of Cade, whom I in combat slew.
The help of one stands me in little stead.
The hollow passage of my poison'd voice,
The honourable blood of Lancaster,
The imperious churchman; Somerset, Buckingham,
The ireful bastard Orleans, that drew blood
The issue of the next son should have reign'd.
The least of all these signs were probable.
The levied succours that should lend him aid,
The life thou gav'st me first was lost and done
The lives of those which we have lost in fight
The loss of those three lords torments my heart.
The manner of thy vile outrageous crimes,
The map of honour, truth, and loyalty!
The middle centre of this cursed town.
The mind of Talbot as you did mistake
The morn that I was wedded to her mother.
The mortal worm might make the sleep eternal.
The mutual conference that my mind hath had,
The name of valour.                 [Sees his father's body]
The noble Duke of Bedford, late deceas'd,
The northern lords that have forsworn thy colours
The other yet may rise against their force.
The other, Walter Whitmore, is thy share.
The outward composition of his body.
The peers agreed; and Henry was well pleas'd
The people liberal valiant, active, wealthy;
The period of thy tyranny approacheth.
The presence of a king engenders love
The pretty-vaulting sea refus'd to drown me,
The pride of Suffolk and the Cardinal,
The princely Warwick, and the Nevils all,
The proudest he that holds up Lancaster,
The purest spring is not so free from mud
The rampant bear chain'd to the ragged staff,
The rascal people, thirsting after prey,
The reason mov'd these warlike lords to this
The rebels have assay'd to win the Tower.
The reverent care I bear unto my lord
The rightful heir to England's royal seat.
The ringleader and head of all this rout,
The ruthless flint doth cut my tender feet,
The sands are numb'red that make up my life;
The scarecrow that affrights our children so.
The second, William of Hatfield; and the third,
The secrets of his overcharged soul;
The servant of his armourer, my lords.
The shame hereof will make me hide my head.
The sight of any of the house of York
The sight of me is odious in their eyes;
The silver livery of advised age,
The sixth was Thomas of Woodstock, Duke of Gloucester;
The soldiers should have toss'd me on their pikes
The sons of York, thy betters in their birth,
The special watchmen of our English weal,
The spite of man prevaileth against me. O Lord, have mercy upon
The splitting rocks cow'r'd in the sinking sands
The strangeness of his alter'd countenance?
The sum of money which I promised
The sun with one eye vieweth all the world.
The thrice victorious Lord of Falconbridge,
The tide of this most renowned duke,
The time of night when Troy was set on fire;
The time when screech-owls cry and ban-dogs howl,
The treacherous manner of his mournful death,
The trembling lamb environed with wolves.
The truth and innocence of this poor fellow,
The truth appears so naked on my side
The truth on our side.
The utter loss of all the realm of France.
The valiant Duke of Bedford. Come, my lord,
The very train of her worst wearing gown
The want thereof makes thee abominable.
The wanton Edward and the lusty George?
The which at Touraine, in Saint Katherine's churchyard,
The witch in Smithfield shall be burnt to ashes,
The world shall not be ransom for thy life.
The world will say he is not Talbot's blood
Thee I'll chase hence, thou wolf in sheep's array.
Their chiefest prospect murd'ring basilisks!
Their music frightful as the serpent's hiss,
Their powers are marching unto Paris-ward.
Their softest touch as smart as lizards' stings!
Their sweetest shade a grove of cypress trees!
Their touch affrights me as a serpent's sting.
Theirs for the earth's increase, mine for my sorrows?
Then I perceive that will be verified
Then be at peace, except ye thirst for blood.
Then be it so. Heavens keep old Bedford safe!
Then broke I from the officers that led me,
Then how can Margaret be thy paramour?
Then how or which way should they first break in?
Then judge, great lords, if I have done amiss,
Then let him be denay'd the regentship.
Then let me die, for now thou hast no cause.
Then take my soul-my body, soul, and all,
Then talk no more of flight, it is no boot;
Then will I raise aloft the milk-white rose,
Then will I think upon a recompense.
Then yield, my lords; and here conclude with me
Then, Joan, discover thine infirmity
Then, York, be still awhile, till time do serve;
Then, York, unloose thy long-imprisoned thoughts
Then, father Salisbury, kneel we together,
Then, noble York, take thou this task in hand.
Then, seeing 'twas he that made you to depose,
There Minotaurs and ugly treasons lurk.
There comes the ruin, there begins confusion.           Exit
There goes the Talbot, with his colours spread,
There hath at least five Frenchmen died to-night.
There is no hope that ever I will stay
There should be found such false dissembling guile?
There to be us'd according to your state.
There were so many-whom she may accuse.
There's none Protector of the realm but I.
There's reason he should be displeas'd at it.
There's two of you; the devil make a third,
There, take the crown, and with the crown my curse;
Therefore away with us to Killingworth.
Therefore bring forth the soldiers of our prize;
Therefore come you with us, and let him go.
Therefore stand up; and for these good deserts
Therefore we'll knock.                              [Knocks]
Therefore, dear boy, mount on my swiftest horse,
Therefore, good uncle, for my father's sake,
Therefore, my Lord Protector, give consent
Therefore, my loving lords, our pleasure is
Therefore, to arms. And, father, do but think
Therefore, when merchant-like I sell revenge,
Therefore-
These Kentish rebels would be soon appeas'd!
These are his substance, sinews, arms, and strength,
These counties were the keys of Normandy!
These eyes that see thee now well coloured
These eyes, like lamps whose wasting oil is spent,
These few days' wonder will be quickly worn.
These hands are free from guiltless bloodshedding,
These oracles are hardly attain'd,
These tears are my sweet Rutland's obsequies;
These women are shrewd tempters with their tongues.
These words of yours draw life-blood from my heart.
They call false caterpillars and intend their death.
They call'd us, for our fierceness, English dogs;
They did amongst the troops of armed men
They humbly sue unto your Excellence
They know their master loves to be aloft,
They laboured to plant the rightful heir,
They may astonish these fell-lurking curs.
They may vex us with shot or with assault.
They say 'A crafty knave does need no broker';
They say by him the good Duke Humphrey died;
They say in him they fear your Highness' death;
They say, in care of your most royal person,
They say, is shamefully bereft of life.
They set him free without his ransom paid,
They that of late were daring with their scoffs
They will by violence tear him from your palace
They would but stink, and putrefy the air.
They'll pawn their swords for my enfranchisement.
They, knowing Dame Eleanor's aspiring humour,
Think but upon the wrong he did us all,
Think not that Henry shall be so depos'd.
Think not, although in writing I preferr'd
Think therefore on revenge and cease to weep.
Think you 'twere prejudicial to his crown?
Third son to the third Edward, King of England.
This Cardinal's more haughty than the devil.
This Gloucester should be quickly rid the world
This be Damascus; be thou cursed Cain,
This breast from harbouring foul deceitful thoughts.
This cloth thou dipp'dst in blood of my sweet boy,
This dastard, at the battle of Patay,
This day I'll wear aloft my burgonet,
This day is ours, as many more shall be.                Exit
This day, in argument upon a case,
This devil here shall be my substitute;
This evening on the east side of the grove.
This expedition was by York and Talbot
This factious bandying of their favourites,
This fellow here, with envious carping tongue,
This get I by his death. Ay me, unhappy!
This hand of mine hath writ in thy behalf,
This hand was made to handle nought but gold.
This happy night the Frenchmen are secure,
This is a double honour, Burgundy.
This is close dealing. Well, I will be there.    Exit HERALD
This is the day appointed for the combat;
This is the latest glory of thy praise
This is the law, and this Duke Humphrey's doom.
This is the palace of the fearful King,
This jarring discord of nobility,
This late dissension grown betwixt the peers
This loathsome sequestration have I had;
This news, I think, hath turn'd your weapon's edge;
This night the siege assuredly I'll raise.
This ornament of knighthood-yea or no.
This peroration with such circumstance?
This proffer is absurd and reasonless.
This quarrel will drink blood another day.            Exeunt
This seven years did not Talbot see his son;
This shall ye do, so help you righteous God!
This shouldering of each other in the court,
This small inheritance my father left me
This speedy and quick appearance argues proof
This staff of honour raught, there let it stand
This sudden execution of my will.
This sudden mischief never could have fall'n.
This token serveth for a flag of truce
This tongue hath parley'd unto foreign kings
This was my dream; what it doth bode God knows.
This way fall I to death.
Thither go these news as fast as horse can carry them-
Those provinces these arms of mine did conquer;
Those that I never saw, and struck them dead.
Thou Icarus; thy life to me is sweet.
Thou art a most pernicious usurer;
Thou art allotted to be ta'en by me.
Thou art as opposite to every good
Thou art my heir; the rest I wish thee gather;
Thou art no father nor no friend of mine.
Thou art no friend to God or to the King.
Thou baleful messenger, out of my sight!
Thou bastard of my grandfather!
Thou factious Duke of York, descend my throne
Thou foul accursed minister of hell!
Thou hast appointed justices of peace, to call poor men before
Thou hast one son; for his sake pity me,
Thou hast undone thyself, thy son, and me;
Thou mad misleader of thy brainsick son!
Thou mayst bereave him of his wits with wonder.         Exit
Thou mayst not wander in that labyrinth:
Thou never didst them wrong, nor no man wrong;
Thou ran'st a tilt in honour of my love
Thou shalt be plac'd as viceroy under him,
Thou shalt not die whiles
Thou stern, obdurate, flinty, rough, remorseless.
Thou that contrived'st to murder our dead lord;
Thou that giv'st whores indulgences to sin.
Thou tremblest at, answer that I shall ask;
Thou wast installed in that high degree.
Thou wilt but add increase unto my wrath.
Thou with an eagle art inspired then.
Thou wouldst be fee'd, I see, to make me sport;
Thou wouldst have left thy dearest heart-blood there
Thou wouldst not have mourn'd so much for me.
Thou, Richard, shalt to the Duke of Norfolk
Thou, nor thy nobles, to the crown of England.
Though Suffolk dare him twenty thousand times.
Though in this place most master wear no breeches,
Though ne'er so cunningly you smother it.
Though standing naked on a mountain top
Three times bestrid him, thrice I led him off,
Three times did Richard make a lane to me,
Three times to-day I holp him to his horse,
Thrice is he arm'd that hath his quarrel just;
Through which our policy must make a breach.
Through whom a thousand sighs are breath'd for thee!
Throw in the frozen bosoms of our part
Thus Eleanor's pride dies in her youngest days.
Thus Joan la Pucelle hath perform'd her word.
Thus are my blossoms blasted in the bud,
Thus are poor servitors,
Thus contumeliously should break the peace!
Thus do I leave thee. Come, son, let's away;
Thus got the house of Lancaster the crown.
Thus is the shepherd beaten from thy side,
Thy daughter shall be wedded to my king,
Thy deeds, thy plainness, and thy housekeeping,
Thy father bears the type of King of Naples,
Thy father slew my father; therefore, die.       [Stabs him]
Thy father was, as thou art, Duke of York;
Thy father, Earl of Cambridge, then deriv'd
Thy fortune, York, hadst thou been Regent there,
Thy grandfather, Roger Mortimer, Earl of March:
Thy grave is digg'd already in the earth.
Thy greatest help is quiet, gentle Nell.
Thy hand is but a finger to my fist,
Thy hand is made to grasp a palmer's staff,
Thy heart-blood I will have for this day's work.
Thy kinsmen, and thy friends, I'll have more lives
Thy late exploits done in the heart of France
Thy leg a stick compared with this truncheon;
Thy lewd, pestiferous, and dissentious pranks,
Thy lips, that kiss'd the Queen, shall sweep the ground;
Thy mother gave thee when thou suck'dst her breast
Thy mother took into her blameful bed
Thy name is Gualtier, being rightly sounded.
Thy noble deeds as valour's monuments.
Thy promises are like Adonis' gardens,
Thy scarlet robes as a child's bearing-cloth
Thy words move rage and not remorse in me.
Till France be won into the Dauphin's hands.
Till Henry Bolingbroke, Duke of Lancaster,
Till Henry be more weak and I more strong.-
Till Henry, surfeiting in joys of love
Till I be crown'd, and that my sword be stain'd
Till Lionel's issue fails, his should not reign.
Till Paris was besieg'd, famish'd, and lost.
Till Suffolk gave two dukedoms for his daughter.
Till bones and flesh and sinews fall away,
Till by broad spreading it disperse to nought.
Till our King Henry had shook hands with death.
Till they have snar'd the shepherd of the flock,
Till we have brought Duke Humphrey in disgrace.
Till with thy warlike sword, despite of fate,
Till you conclude that he upon whose side
Tire on the flesh of me and of my son!
To Bedlam with him! Is the man grown mad?
To Bordeaux, warlike Duke! to Bordeaux, York!
To Edmund Langley, Edward the Third's fifth son, son.
To France, sweet Suffolk. Let me hear from thee;
To France, to France, and get what you have lost;
To Ireland will you lead a band of men,
To King Edward the Third; whereas he
To Roger Earl of March, who was the son
To aspire unto the crown and reign as king.
To be Protector of his Excellence?
To be a public spectacle to all;
To be a queen and crown'd with infamy!
To be disgraced by an inkhorn mate,
To be mine own attorney in this case.
To be our Regent in these parts of France.
To be presented by your victories
To be shame's scorn and subject of mischance!
To be the pillage of a giglot wench.'
To be the post, in hope of his reward.
To be the princely bride of such a lord,
To be your Regent in the realm of France.
To bear with their perverse objections,
To beat assailing death from his weak legions;
To bid his young son welcome to his grave?
To bid the father wipe his eyes withal,
To blush and beautify the cheek again.
To bring this matter to the wished end.
To call a present court of Parliament.
To call them both a pair of crafty knaves.
To cavil in the course of this contract.
To cease this civil war, and, whilst I live,
To cease! Wast thou ordain'd, dear father,
To celebrate the joy that God hath given us.
To changes two dukedoms for a duke's fair daughter.
To choose for wealth and not for perfect love.
To compass wonders but by help of devils.
To conquer France, his true inheritance?
To cross the seas and to be crown'd in France:
To cross the seas to England, and be crown'd
To crown himself King and suppress the Prince.
To die by thee were but to die in jest:
To die in ruffian battle? Even at this sight
To do a murd'rous deed, to rob a man,
To do my duty to my sovereign;
To draw conditions of a friendly peace,
To dream on evil or to work my downfall.
To ease your country of distressful war,
To emblaze the honour that thy master got.
To entail him and his heirs unto the crown,
To entertain great England's lawful king.
To entertain my vows of thanks and praise!
To every idle rascal follower.
To feast so great a warrior in my house.              Exeunt
To fight with Talbot; as he march'd along,
To fill the world with vicious qualities.
To force a spotless virgin's chastity,
To free us from his Father's wrathful curse,
To gather our soldiers, scatter'd and dispers'd,
To give his censure. These are no women's matters.
To give me hearing what I shall reply.
To give the enemy way, and to secure us
To give thee answer of thy just demand.
To give their censure of these rare reports.
To grapple with the house of Lancaster;
To guard the chicken from a hungry kite
To haste unto your coronation,
To have a godly peace concluded of
To have thee with thy lips to stop my mouth;
To hazard all our lives in one small boat!
To hold your slaught'ring hands and keep the peace.
To honour me as thy king and sovereign,
To hurl at the beholders of my shame;
To intercept this inconvenience,
To join with witches and the help of hell!
To join your hearts in love and amity.
To keep by policy what Henry got?
To keep thee from the tempest of the field.
To keep until your further time of trial.
To know the cause of your abrupt departure.
To know the reason of these arms in peace;
To know who hath obtain'd the glory of the day.
To leave the Talbot and to follow us.
To look into this business thoroughly
To lose thy youth in peace and to achieve
To love and honour Henry as her lord.
To make a bastard and a slave of me!
To make a shambles of the parliament house!
To make commotion, as full well he can,
To make the fox surveyor of the fold?
To marry Princess Margaret for your Grace;
To match with her that brings no vantages.
To mow down thorns that would annoy our foot,
To my determin'd time thou gav'st new date.
To number Ave-Maries on his beads;
To pay him tribute and submit thyself,
To play my part in Fortune's pageant.
To present your Highness with the man.
To prick thy finger, though to wound his heart.
To pry into the secrets of the state;
To put a golden sceptre in thy hand
To quell the rebels and their complices.
To raise a mutiny betwixt yourselves.
To reave the orphan of his patrimony,
To reconcile you all unto the King.                   Exeunt
To rid us from the fear we have of him.
To rive their dangerous artillery
To save a paltry life and slay bright fame,
To save your subjects from such massacre
To say if that the bastard boys of York
To scourge you for this apprehension.
To see her coronation be perform'd.
To see how God in all His creatures works!
To see how inly sorrow gripes his soul.
To see my tears and hear my deep-fet groans.
To see their day and them our fortune give.
To seek to put me down and reign thyself.
To send me packing with an host of men.
To send such peevish tokens to a king.
To set a gloss upon his bold intent,
To shine on my contemptible estate.
To show how quaint an orator you are.
To show some reason, of no little force,
To signify that rebels there are up
To sit and witch me, as Ascanius did
To slay thy brother Abel, if thou wilt.
To slay your sovereign and destroy the realm.
To spoil the city and your royal court.
To stop effusion of our Christian blood
To sup with me to-morrow night. Away!                 Exeunt
To take her with him to the Isle of Man.
To tear the Garter from thy craven's leg,  [Plucking it off]
To tell my love unto his dumb deaf trunk;
To tell thee whence thou cam'st, of whom deriv'd,
To thee I pray: sweet Clifford, pity me.
To think that you have aught but Talbot's shadow
To think upon my pomp shall be my hell.
To tread them with her tender-feeling feet.
To triumph like an Amazonian trull
To trouble and disturb the King and us?
To try his strength, forsaketh yet the lists
To try if that our own be ours or no.
To tumble down thy husband and thyself
To tutor thee in stratagems of war,
To visit her poor castle where she lies,
To wall thee from the liberty of flight,
To wash away my woeful monuments.
To watch the coming of my punish'd duchess.
To wilful disobedience, and rebel!
To woo so fair a dame to be his wife
To work exceeding miracles on earth.
To wring the widow from her custom'd right,
To you Duke Humphrey must unload his grief
To your most gracious hands, that are the substance
To your obedience fifty fortresses,
To-morrow I shall die with mickle age.
To-morrow toward London back again
Together with the pitiful complaints
Too full of foolish pity; and Gloucester's show
Too rashly plotted; all our general force
Took odds to combat a poor famish'd man.
Touching thy spiritual function, not thy life.
Tower, to defend the city from the rebels.
Transported shall be at high festivals
Triumphant death, smear'd with captivity,
Troubles the silver spring where England drinks;
Trowest thou that e'er I'll look upon the world
True nobility is exempt from fear:
Turn back and fly, like ships before the wind,
Turn on the bloody hounds with heads of steel
Twelve cities, and seven walled towns of strength,
Twinkling another counterfeited beam,
Two Talbots, winged through the lither sky,
Two mightier troops than that the Dauphin led,
Unable to support this lump of clay,
Unchain your spirits now with spelling charms,
Under my feet I stamp thy cardinal's hat;
Under the countenance and confederacy
Under the lordly monarch of the north,
Under the surly Gloucester's governance?
Under the tide of John Mortimer.
Under the which is writ 'Invitis nubibus.'
Under the wings of our Protector's grace,
Undoing all, as all had never been!
Uneath may she endure the flinty streets
Unless Lord Suffolk straight be done to death,
Unless Plantagenet, Duke of York, be King,
Unless by robbing of your friends and us.
Unless he seek to thrust you out perforce.
Unless it were a bloody murderer,
Unless the adage must be verified,
Unless thou wert more loyal than thou art.
Unless you be possess'd with devilish spirits
Unlike the ruler of a commonweal.
Unsounded yet, and full of deep deceit.
Until a power be rais'd to put them down.
Until his army be dismiss'd from him.
Until it wither with me to my grave,
Until that act of parliament be repeal'd
Until the Queen his mistress bury it.                   Exit
Until the golden circuit on my head,
Until the white rose that I wear be dy'd
Until they hear the order of his death.
Until thy head be circled with the same.
Unto a dunghill, which shall be thy grave,
Unto another lady of esteem.
Unto the commons whom thou hast misled;
Unto the daughter of a worthless king,
Unto the poor King Reignier, whose large style
Unto the prince's heart of Calydon.
Unworthy though thou art, I'll cope with thee,
Upbraided me about the rose I wear,
Upon condition I may quietly
Upon his face an ocean of salt tears
Upon my death the French can little boast;
Upon my life, began her devilish practices;
Upon my soul, the hearers will shed tears;
Upon no Christian soul but English Talbot.
Upon offenders hath exceeded law,
Upon the country where you make abode;
Upon the life of this thrice-famed Duke.
Upon the which, that every one may read,
Upon their woes whom fortune captivates!
Upon these paltry, servile, abject drudges!
Upon thy eye-balls murderous tyranny
Us'd intercession to obtain a league,
Us'd to command, untaught to plead for favour.
Use no entreaty, for it is in vain.
Using no other weapon but his name.                     Exit
Valiant Lord Talbot, Earl of Shrewsbury,
Valiant and virtuous, full of haughty courage,
Verbatim to rehearse the method of my pen.
Virtue is chok'd with foul ambition,
Virtuous and holy, chosen from above
Vow, Burgundy, by honour of thy house,
Wallon, and Picardy, are friends to us,
Warwick is Chancellor and the lord of Calais;
Warwick my son, the comfort of my age,
Was I for this nigh wreck'd upon the sea,
Was John of Gaunt, the Duke of Lancaster;
Was better worth than all my father's lands,
Was broke in twain; by whom I have forgot,
Was by a beggar-woman stol'n away,
Was cursed instrument of his decease.
Was graft with crab-tree slip, whose fruit thou art,
Was in the mouth of every sucking babe:
Was made a wonder and a pointing-stock
Was never subject long'd to be a King
Was not the Duke of Orleans thy foe?
Was not thy father, Richard Earl of Cambridge,
Was nothing less than bloody tyranny.
Was rightful heir unto the English crown,
Was wont to cheer his dad in mutinies?
Was't you that revell'd in our parliament
Was, for that-young Richard thus remov'd,
Wasted our country, slain our citizens,
Watch thou and wake, when others be asleep,
Wax dim, as drawing to their exigent;
We English warriors wot not what it means.
We and our wives and children all will fight
We are alone; here's none but thee and I.
We are like to have the overthrow again.
We are thy sovereign, Clifford, kneel again;
We bodg'd again; as I have seen a swan
We come to be informed by yourselves
We do exhibit to your Majesty.
We do no otherwise than we are will'd.
We give thee for reward a thousand marks,
We grace the yeoman by conversing with him.
We had had more sport. [Aside to GLOUCESTER] Come with thy
We had not been thus shamefully surpris'd.
We have dispatch'd the Duke, as he commanded.
We here create thee the first Duke of Suffolk,
We here create you Earl of Shrewsbury;
We here discharge your Grace from being Regent
We know the time since he was mild and affable,
We mourn: France smiles. We lose: they daily get-
We sent unto the Temple, unto his chamber;
We shall begin our ancient bickerings.
We shall not find like opportunity.
We shall to London get, where you are lov'd,
We should have found a bloody day of this.
We thank you all for this great favour done
We twain will go into his Highness' tent.
We will bestow you in some better place,
We will entice the Duke of Burgundy
We will make fast within a hallow'd verge.
We will not leave one lord, one gentleman;
We'll both together lift our heads to heaven,
We'll crave a parley to confer with him.
We'll follow them with all the power we have.
We'll pull his plumes and take away his train,
We'll quickly hoise Duke Humphrey from his seat.
We'll see these things effected to the full.
We'll see your trinkets here all forthcoming.
Weak shoulders, overborne with burdening grief,
Weaves tedious snares to trap mine enemies.
Weeps over them and wrings his hapless hands
Well could I curse away a winter's night,
Well, I will lock his counsel in my breast;
Well, lords, we have not got that which we have;
Well, nobles, well, 'tis politicly done
Well, so its stands; and thus, I fear, at last
Well, to the rest:
Were I a man, a duke, and next of blood,
Were almost like a sharp-quill'd porpentine;
Were but his picture left amongst you here,
Were by his side; sometime he calls the King
Were by the swords of common soldiers slain.
Were growing time once ripened to my will.
Were it not good your Grace could fly to heaven?
Were not revenge sufficient for me;
Were plac'd the heads of Edmund Duke of Somerset
Were shame enough to shame thee, wert thou not shameless.
Were there a serpent seen with forked tongue
Were there surpris'd and taken prisoners.
Were't not a shame that whilst you live at jar
Were't not all one an empty eagle were set
What answer makes your Grace unto my suit?
What boded this but well-forewarning wind
What counsel give you in this weighty cause?
What did I then but curs'd the gentle gusts,
What have we here?                                   [Reads]
What instance gives Lord Warwick for his vow?
What is it but to make thy sepulchre
What is the trust or strength of foolish man?
What is your quarrel? How began it first?
What know I how the world may deem of me?
What louring star now envies thy estate
What mutter you, or what conspire you, lords?
What noise is this I hear? Dare any be so bold to sound retreat
What ransom must I pay before I pass?
What ruin happened in revenge of him,
What says Lord Warwick? Shall we after them?
What see'st thou there? King Henry's diadem,
What stir is this? What tumult's in the heavens?
What the conditions of that league must be.
What though the common people favour him,
What tumult's this?
What valour were it, when a cur doth grin,
What were it but to make my sorrow greater?
What you have done hath not offended me.
What! did my brother Henry spend his youth,
What's here! [Reads] 'Against the Duke of Suffolk, for enclosing
What's here?  [Reads]  'I have, upon especial cause,
What's past and what's to come she can descry.
What, all amort? Rouen hangs her head for grief
What, are ye daunted now? Now will ye stoop?
What, art thou like the adder waxen deaf?
What, dost thou turn away, and hide thy face?
What, hast thou been long blind and now restor'd?
What, hath thy fiery heart so parch'd thine entrails
What, is't too short? I'll lengthen it with mine;
What, madam, are you there? The King and commonweal
What, shall King Henry be a pupil still,
What, shall a child instruct you what to do?
What, was it you that would be England's king?
What, wilt thou on thy death-bed play the ruffian
Whate'er occasion keeps him from us now.
When I have chased all thy foes from hence,
When I have feasted with Queen Margaret?
When I was crown'd, I was but nine months old.
When I was young, as yet I am not old,
When Talbot hath set footing once in France,
When arm in arm they both came swiftly running,
When as the enemy hath been ten to one;
When but in all I was six thousand strong,
When death doth close his tender dying eyes,
When every one will give the time of day,
When foreign princes shall be certified
When from Saint Albans we do make return
When from thy shore the tempest beat us back,
When have I aught exacted at your hands,
When he might spurn him with his foot away?
When he perceiv'd me shrink and on my knee,
When he to madding Dido would unfold
When ladies crave to be encount'red with.
When others sleep upon their quiet beds,
When sapless age and weak unable limbs
When stubbornly he did repugn the truth
When such strings jar, what hope of harmony?
When they shall hear how we have play'd the men.
When thou didst ride in triumph through the streets.
When thou shalt see I'll meet thee to thy cost.
When thou wert Regent for our sovereign,
Whence cometh this alarum and the noise?
Where Henry and Dame Margaret kneel'd to me,
Where I may have fruition of her love.
Where I shall kneel to him that slew my father!
Where I was wont to feed you with my blood,
Where Reignier sooner will receive than give.
Where are you there, Sir John? Nay, fear not, man,
Where are your mess of sons to back you now?
Where as the King and Queen do mean to hawk.
Where be these warders that they wait not here?
Where biting cold would never let grass grow,
Where death's approach is seen so terrible!
Where false Plantagenet dare not be seen.
Where is John Talbot? Pause and take thy breath;
Where is best place to make our batt'ry next.
Where is our uncle? What's the matter, Suffolk?
Where is the Dauphin? Come, come from behind;
Where it best fits to be, in Henry's hand.
Where it should guard. O war, thou son of hell,
Where shall it find a harbour in the earth?
Where, from thy sight, I should be raging mad
Whereas the contrary bringeth bliss,
Whereat the great Lord of Northumberland,
Whereby my son is disinherited.
Wherefore a guard of chosen shot I had
Wherein my grandsire and my father sat?
Whereof you cannot easily purge yourself.
Whereon to practise your severity.
Which Caesar and his fortune bare at once.
Which I disdaining scorn'd, and craved death
Which I have done, because unworthily
Which I will bear in triumph to the King,
Which I will win from France, or else be slain.
Which Somerset hath offer'd to my house,
Which by my Lord of Winchester we mean
Which dar'st not, no, nor canst not rule a traitor.
Which fear if better reasons can supplant,
Which giveth many wounds when one will kill.
Which he had thought to have murder'd wrongfully.
Which in the right of Richard Plantagenet
Which in the time of Henry nam'd the Fifth
Which is infallible, to England's crown.
Which is so plain that Exeter doth wish
Which join'd with him and made their march for
Which makes me hope you are not void of pity.
Which makes thee thus presumptuous and proud,
Which mates him first that first intends deceit.
Which never ceaseth to enlarge itself
Which now the house of Lancaster usurps,
Which obloquy set bars before my tongue,
Which once discern'd shows that her meaning is
Which thou didst force from Talbot, my brave boy.'
Which thou thyself hast given her woeful breast.
Which time will bring to light in smooth Duke Humphrey.
Which with the heart there cools, and ne'er returneth
While Gloucester bears this base and humble mind.
While all is shar'd and all is borne away,
While as the silly owner of the goods
While he, renowned noble gentleman,
While his own lands are bargain'd for and sold.
While these do labour for their own preferment,
While they do tend the profit of the land.
While you are thus employ'd, what resteth more
Whiles I in Ireland nourish a mighty band,
Whiles I take order for mine own affairs.
Whiles thy consuming canker eats his falsehood.
Whilst any trump did sound or drum struck up,
Who art thou? Say, that I may honour thee.
Who being accus'd a crafty murderer,
Who can accuse me? Wherein am I guilty?
Who can be bound by any solemn vow
Who cannot steal a shape that means deceit?
Who finds the partridge in the puttock's nest
Who hateth him and honours not his father,
Who in a moment even with the earth
Who in contempt shall hiss at thee again;
Who join'st thou with but with a lordly nation
Who kept him in captivity till he died.
Who loves the King, and will embrace his pardon,
Who made the Dauphin and the French to stoop,
Who married Edmund Mortimer, Earl of March;
Who now is girdled with a waist of iron
Who should be pitiful, if you be not?
Who since I heard to be discomfited.
Who then but English Henry will be lord,
Who with their drowsy, slow, and flagging wings
Who's within there, ho?
Who, after Edward the Third's death, reign'd as king
Who, being suffer'd, with the bear's fell paw,
Who, cherish'd in your breasts, will sting your hearts.
Who, in the conflict that it holds with death,
Who, ring'd about with bold adversity,
Whom Henry, our late sovereign, ne'er could brook!
Whom I encount'red as the battles join'd.
Whom I unnaturally shall disinherit.
Whom I with pain have woo'd and won thereto;
Whom angry heavens do make their minister,
Whom have I injur'd, that ye seek my death?
Whom should we match with Henry, being a king,
Whom we have apprehended in the fact,
Whom we have left protectors of the King,
Whom with my bare fists I would execute,
Whose beam stands sure, whose rightful cause prevails.
Whose bookish rule hath pull'd fair England down.       Exit
Whose church-like humours fits not for a crown.
Whose conscience with injustice is corrupted.
Whose dismal tune bereft my vital pow'rs;
Whose dreadful swords were never drawn in vain,
Whose far unworthy deputy I am,
Whose father slew my father, he shall die.
Whose flood begins to flow within mine eyes;
Whose frown hath made thee faint and fly ere this!
Whose glory fills the world with loud report.
Whose haughty spirit, winged with desire,
Whose heir my father was, and I am his.
Whose life was England's glory, Gallia's wonder.
Whose maiden blood, thus rigorously effus'd,
Whose overweening arm I have pluck'd back,
Whose pitchy mantle over-veil'd the earth.
Whose smile and frown, like to Achilles' spear,
Whose tongue more poisons than the adder's tooth!
Whose warlike ears could never brook retreat,
Why Somerset should be preferr'd in this.
Why are thine eyes fix'd to the sullen earth,
Why art thou old, and want'st experience?
Why art thou patient, man? Thou shouldst be mad;
Why come you not? What! multitudes, and fear?
Why didst thou say of late thou wert despis'd?
Why do we linger thus? I cannot rest
Why doth the great Duke Humphrey knit his brows,
Why look you still so stem and tragical?
Why only, Suffolk, mourn I not for thee,
Why should I not now have the like success?           Exeunt
Why, for my King! Tush, that's a wooden thing!
Why, then Dame Margaret was ne'er thy joy.
Why, then from Ireland come I with my strength,
Why, this is just
Why, what tumultuous clamour have we here?
Why, yet thy scandal were not wip'd away,
Wicked and vile; and so her death concludes.
Will I for ever, and my faction, wear,
Will I upon thy party wear this rose;
Will answer our hope in issue of a king;
Will bring thy head with sorrow to the ground!
Will cost my crown, and like an empty eagle
Will cry for vengeance at the gates of heaven.
Will follow mine, if once they see them spread;
Will he conduct you through the heart of France,
Will make but little for his benefit.
Will make him say I mov'd him to those arms.
Will not conclude their plotted tragedy.
Will not your honours bear me company?
Will parley with Jack Cade their general.
Will see his burial better than his life.
Will turn into a peaceful comic sport,
Will ye, like soldiers, come and fight it out?
Will'd me to leave my base vocation
William of Windsor was the seventh and last.
Wilt thou be daunted at a woman's sight?
Wilt thou go dig a grave to find out war
Wilt thou not stoop? Now cursed be the time
Wilt thou yet leave the battle, boy, and fly,
Wingham-
Wink at the Duke of Suffolk's insolence,
With 'God preserve the good Duke Humphrey!'
With Charles, Alencon, and that traitorous rout.
With Eleanor for telling but her dream?
With Henry's death the English circle ends;
With Margery Jourdain, the cunning witch of Eie,
With Roger Bolingbroke, the conjurer?
With Sir John Stanley in the Isle of Man.
With Somerset's and Buckingham's ambition;
With all the learned Council of the realm,
With any passion of inflaming love,
With bootless labour swim against the tide
With downright payment show'd unto my father.
With envious looks, laughing at thy shame,
With every several pleasure in the world;
With full as many signs of deadly hate,
With gobbets of thy mother's bleeding heart.
With heart-blood of the house of Lancaster;
With her that hateth thee and hates us all-
With him the husband of this lovely lady;
With his new bride and England's dear-bought queen,
With honour of his birthright to the crown.
With hope to find the like event in love
With humble suit: no, rather let my head
With ignominious words, though clerkly couch'd,
With letters of commission from the King.
With long continuance in a settled place.
With modesty admiring thy renown,
With more than half the Gallian territories,
With other vile and ignominious terms
With pow'rful policy strengthen themselves
With purple falchion, painted to the hilt
With ruder terms, such as my wit affords
With sad unhelpful tears, and with dimm'd eyes
With shining checker'd slough, doth sting a child
With sorrow snares relenting passengers;
With such holiness can you do it?
With sweet enlargement doth dismiss me hence.
With sweet rehearsal of my morning's dream.
With tears as salt as sea through thy unkindness;
With that dread King that took our state upon Him
With the rude multitude till I return.                  Exit
With this immodest clamorous outrage
With this we charg'd again; but out alas!
With those clear rays which she infus'd on me
With thy confederates in this weighty cause.            Exit
With twenty thousand kisses and to drain
With walking once about the quadrangle,
With what a majesty he bears himself;
With which he yoketh your rebellious necks,
With whom the Kentishmen will willingly rise;
With whose envenomed and fatal sting
With whose sweet smell the air shall be perfum'd,
With written pamphlets studiously devis'd?
With you, mine alder-liefest sovereign,
Within a loathsome dungeon, there to pine,
Within her quarter and mine own precinct
Within six hours they will be at his aid.
Within their chiefest temple I'll erect
Within this half hour hath receiv'd his sight;
Within whose circuit is Elysium
Without discharge, money, or furniture,
Witness the fortune he hath had in France.
Witty, courteous, liberal, full of spirit.
Women are soft, mild, pitiful, and flexible:
Wont, through a secret grate of iron bars
Worthy Saint Michael, and the Golden Fleece,
Would choose him Pope, and carry him to Rome,
Would curses kill as doth the mandrake's groan,
Would make a volume of enticing lines,
Would make thee quickly hop without thy head.
Would not have touch'd, would not have stain'd with blood;
Wouldst have me rescue thee from this reproach?
Wouldst have me weep? Why, now thou hast thy will;
Wrath makes him deaf; speak thou, Northumberland.
Wretched shall France be only in my name.
Writ to your Grace from th' Duke of Burgundy.
Write up his title with usurping blood.
Writes not so tedious a style as this.
Yea, even my foes will shed fast-falling tears
Yea, man and birds are fain of climbing high.
Yet Aeolus would not be a murderer,
Yet I do find it so; for, to be plain,
Yet am I Suffolk and the Cardinal's broker.
Yet are these feet, whose strengthless stay is numb,
Yet by reputing of his high descent-
Yet call th' ambassadors, and, as you please,
Yet did I purpose as they do entreat;
Yet do not go away; come, basilisk,
Yet hath a woman's kindness overrul'd;
Yet have I gold flies from another coast-
Yet he most Christian-like laments his death;
Yet heavens have glory for this victory!
Yet know, my lord, I was provok'd by him,
Yet let not this make thee be bloody-minded;
Yet let us watch the haughty cardinal;
Yet liv'st thou, Salisbury? Though thy speech doth fail,
Yet must we join with him and with the lords,
Yet never have you tasted our reward,
Yet not so wealthy as an English yeoman.
Yet now, farewell; and farewell life with thee!
Yet parted but the shadow with his hand.
Yet so he rul'd, and such a prince he was,
Yet, by your leave, the wind was very high,
Yet, if this servile usage once offend,
Yet, notwithstanding such a strait edict,
Yet, to recover them, would lose my life.
Yield up his life unto a world of odds.
York cannot speak unless he wear a crown.
York doth present himself unto your Highness.
York set him on to fight and die in shame.
York!
You all consented unto Salisbury's death,
You are come to Sandal in a happy hour;
You are deceiv'd, my substance is not here;
You cannot but forbear to murder me.
You do it her. And so, Sir John, farewell.
You do prepare to ride unto Saint Albans,
You fled for vantage, every one will swear;
You four, from hence to prison back again;
You go about to torture me in vain.
You have defended me from imminent death.
You have great reason to do Richard right;
You judge it straight a thing impossible
You know, my lord, your Highness is betroth'd
You made in a day, my lord, whole towns to fly.
You may behold confusion of your foes.                  Exit
You may not, my lord, despise her gentle suit.
You put sharp weapons in a madman's hands.
You see what mischief, and what murder too,
You shall become true liegemen to his crown;
You shall have pay and everything you wish.
You speedy helpers that are substitutes
You tempt the fury of my three attendants,
You use her well; the world may laugh again,
You, Edward, shall unto my Lord Cobham,
You, his false hopes, the trust of England's honour,
You, madam, for you are more nobly born,
Young Talbot's valour makes me smile at thee.
Your Grace shall well and quietly enjoy.
Your Grace's title shall be multiplied.
Your Highness came to England, so will I
Your angry choler on your enemies.
Your bondage happy, to be made a queen?
Your deeds of war, and all our counsel die?
Your faithful service, and your toil in war;
Your grief, the common grief of all the land.
Your hearts I'll stamp out with my horse's heels
Your kingdom's terror and black Nemesis?
Your lady is forthcoming yet at London.
Your loss is great, so your regard should be;
Your loving uncle, twenty times his worth,
Your nephew, late despised Richard, comes.
Your oath, my lord, is vain and frivolous.
Your purpose is both good and reasonable,
Your roof were not sufficient to contain 't.
Your troops of horsemen with his bands of foot;
[Aside to CARDINAL] Now, by God's Mother, priest,
[Aside]  And yet, methinks, I could be well content
[Aside] Whom have we here? Buckingham, to disturb me?
[Kneels] Rise up, Sir John Mortimer. [Rises] Now have at him!
[To SUFFOLK] And therefore, to revenge it, shalt thou die;
a Beadle, a Sheriff, Officers, Citizens, Prentices, Falconers,
a butcher.
a knight,
accompt.
accusation.
accuser is my prentice; and when I did correct him for his fault
affords.                         Exeunt servants, MAYOR, &C.
again as it is, and thou shalt have a licence to kill for a
again.
all as dead as a door-nail, I pray God I may never eat grass
all the foul terrors in dark-seated hell-
am I so hungry that, if I might have a lease of my life for a
and Jerusalem, and crown her Queen of England ere the thirtieth
and command you, in his Highness' name, to repair to
and the bodies shall be dragged at my horse heels till I do come
and wife and all, from me.
answer him.
any ill, nor the King, nor the Queen; and therefore, Peter, have
any such matter. God is my witness, I am falsely accus'd by the
are alive at this day to testify it; therefore deny it not.
as much to say as 'Let the magistrates be labouring men'; and
at thee with a down right blow!
be henceforth a burying place to all that do dwell in this house,
be the last of the next month.
be us'd, and, contrary to the King, his crown, and dignity, thou
beard thee too. Look on me well: I have eat no meat these five
because the unconquered soul of Cade is fled.
bee stings; but I say 'tis the bee's wax; for I did but seal once
been most worthy to live. Thou dost ride in a foot-cloth, dost
been up these two days.
besieg'd,
betray me, and get a thousand crowns of the King by carrying my
blank of our jurisdiction regal. What canst thou answer to my
bless me, I pray God! for I am never able to deal with my master,
books but the score and the tally, thou hast caused printing to
borne before us instead of maces will we ride through the
both upon two poles hither.
brain-pain had been cleft with a brown bill; and many a time,
bridle it. He shall die, an it be but for pleading so well for
brought] Now, sirrah, if you mean to save yourself from whipping,
burnt i' th' hand for stealing of sheep.
by me.
calls me other than Lord Mortimer.
can tell.
card.
clown in chines of beef ere thou sleep in thy sheath, I beseech
come to Berwick, from whence they came.
come to that!
command that their wives be as free as heart can wish or tongue
commodities upon our bills?
commonwealth, and turn it, and set a new nap upon it.
complain? First let me know, and then I'll answer you.
consult about the giving up of some more towns in France.
cowards; for I, that never feared any, am vanquished by famine,
curse:
cut like a calf.
days, yet come thou and thy five men and if I do not leave you
death,
do wear. Sight may distinguish of colours; but suddenly to
doom.
doth
down! Throw them into Thames!               [Sound a parley]
drink, and fear not your man.
duchies of Anjou and Maine shall be released and delivered over
durst not peep out, for all the country is laid for me; but now
eat and drink on my score, and I will apparel them all in one
encount'red with a man as good as himself. He is but a knight,
enemy be a good counsellor, or no?
entering his fee-simple without leave. Ah, villain, thou wilt
fall to it with our teeth.
false,
fifteens, and one shining to the pound, the last subsidy.
fight; CADE falls] O, I am slain! famine and no other hath slain
fire,
for Henry King of England, that the said Henry shall espouse the
for Peter!
for credit of the prentices.
for saying that the Duke of York was rightful heir to the crown.
fresh.
goes.
goes;
grammar school; and whereas, before, our forefathers had no other
great that could restore this cripple to his legs again?
ground.
hammer; and here, Tom, take all the money that I have. O Lord
hang'd with your about your necks? Hath my sword therefore broke
hard by, with the King's forces.
hast built a paper-mill. It will be proved to thy face that thou
hast hang'd them, when, indeed, only for that cause they have
hast men about thee that usually talk of a noun and a verb, and
hast put them in prison, and because they could not read, thou
hath done a miracle; and would ye not think his cunning to be
have it. Men shall hold of me in capite; and we charge and
have known all our names as thus to name the several colours we
have we here?
he hath learnt so much fence already.
head
head to him; but I'll make thee eat iron like an ostrich and
heads together to surprise me. My sword make way for me for here
heart.
heir to the crown?
hence.
him
his life.- Away with him! He has a familiar under his tongue; he
his lordship? Let me see them. What is thine?
his neck.                            Exit one with the CLERK
honester men than thou go in their hose and doublets.
house, Sir James Cromer, and strike off his head, and bring them
houses over your heads, ravish your wives and daughters before
hundred lacking one.
if I die, I give thee my apron; and, Will, thou shalt have my
ignominious treasons, makes me betake me to my heels.
imperiously?
in God's name, and leave us. [Exit HUME] Mother Jourdain, be you
in Southwark? I thought ye would never have given out these arms
in common, and in Cheapside shall my palfrey go to grass. And
instead of a quart-pot to drink in; and now the word 'sallet'
instigation, to prove him a knave and myself an honest man; and
invincible spirit; but it shall be convenient, Master Hume, that
is 'a?
is no staying. In despite of the devils and hell, have through
it an eunuch; and more than that, he can speak French, and
it!
laces.
ladyship behold and hear our exorcisms?
lance,
leap me over this stool and run away.
leather of.
let in.
let out the prisoners.
let us to our work.
light upon you all!
livery, that they may agree like brothers and worship me their
lord.
lov'd well when they were alive. Now part them again, lest they
maid be married, but she shall pay to me her maidenhead ere they
man
man's stomach this hot weather. And I think this word 'sallet'
man, Jesu bless him!
march forward.                                        Exeunt
mark to thyself, like a honest plain-dealing man?
market days together.
mayst.
me she hath lost her best man, and exhort all the world to be
me, I shall never be able to fight a blow! O Lord, my heart!
me. I have good witness of this; therefore I beseech your
me. Let ten thousand devils come against me, and give me but the
men, When for so slight and frivolous a cause
merry world in England since gentlemen came up.
mind than a hard hand.
mine?
mischiefs, and makes them leave me desolate. I see them lay their
moan.
more.
multitude? The name of Henry the Fifth hales them to an hundred
must serve me to feed on.
no want of resolution in me, but only my followers' base and
nobility. Let them break your backs with burdens, take your
nominate them all, it is impossible. My lords, Saint Alban here
not by valour.                                        [Dies]
not my Lord Protector.
not open;
now.
obstinacy
of May next ensuing.
of the skin of an innocent lamb should be made parchment? That
of your matter before the King.
off his head presently, and then break into his son-in-law's
on his shoulders, unless he pay me tribute; there shall not a
or parley when I command them kill?
or pick a sallet another while, which is not amiss to cool a
our reign. And now henceforward it shall be treason for any that
pack, she washes bucks here at home.
pain of death.
parchment, being scribbl'd o'er, should undo a man? Some say the
patience,
pay?
performance of your promises.
pissing conduit run nothing but claret wine this first year of
prayers,
prince,
proof.
prostrate and grovel on the earth; John Southwell, read you; and
quickly.
ready to famish! These five days have I hid me in these woods and
rear'd
rebels.
records of the realm. My mouth shall be the Parliament of
recreants and dastards, and delight to live in slavery to the
reformation. There shall be in England seven halfpenny loaves
released and delivered to the King her father'-
roses;
sack; and fear not, neighbour, you shall do well enough.
send for his master with a pursuivant presently. We'll hear more
shut out?
silence?
sold for a penny; the three-hoop'd pot shall have ten hoops; and
sold the towns in France; he that made us pay one and twenty
sooner the better.
speak them to me in the garret one night, as we were scouring my
speaks not o' God's name. Go, take him away, I say, and strike
spirit of putting down kings and princes- command silence.
spirits:
stand?
stinks with eating toasted cheese.
straight;
streets, and at every corner have them kiss. Away!     Exeunt
such abominable words as no Christian ear can endure to hear.
suit,
supplication?
supplications in the quill.
swallow my sword like a great pin ere thou and I part.
sweep the court clean of such filth as thou art. Thou hast most
teeth be pull'd out.
tell the King from me that for his father's sake, Henry the
tell you that that Lord Say hath gelded the commonwealth and made
ten meals I have lost, and I'd defy them all. Wither, garden, and
that?
the cage.
the commons of Melford.' How now, sir knave!
the dukedom of Maine.
the grove?
the mouth with a spear, and 'tis not whole yet.
the other day, he did vow upon his knees he would be even with
the presence of Lord Mortimer, that I am the besom that must
the very middest of you! and heavens and honour be witness that
thee.
them about matters they were not able to answer. Moreover, thou
then, I ask but this: can he that speaks with the tongue of an
there?
therefore he is a traitor.
therefore should we be magistrates.
therefore thus will I reward thee- the Lent shall be as long
think I have taken my last draught in this world. Here, Robin, an
this day against God's peace and the King's, we charge
this?
thou not?
thou serge, nay, thou buckram lord! Now art thou within point
thousand years, I could stay no longer. Wherefore, on a brick
through London gates, that you should leave me at the White Hart
thy master's way.
thyself as if thou hadst been in thine own slaughter-house;
till you had recovered your ancient freedom. But you are all
to London, where we will have the mayor's sword borne before us.
to a thing, and I was never mine own man since. How now! Who's
to the King her father, and she sent over of the King of
told.
tongue,
touching the Duke of York, I will take my death I never meant him
town?
traitor.
traitorously corrupted the youth of the realm in erecting a
trow,
unless I find him guilty, he shall not die. Come hither, sirrah,
use, any sword, weapon, or dagger, henceforward, upon
villain.
wall have I climb'd into this garden, to see if I can eat grass
was born to do me good; for many a time, but for a sallet, my
was he born, under a hedge, for his father had never a house but
was, and that the King was an usurper.
when I am king- as king I will be
when I have been dry, and bravely marching, it hath serv'd me
which contract,
whole township.
wife;
will come this way by and by, and then we may deliver our
wilt.
with a staff, but that my puissance holds it up. Fellow kings, I
with you.
won the bridge, killing all those that withstand them.
write my name.
you be by her aloft while we be busy below; and so I pray you go,
you'; I'll see if his head will stand steadier on a pole, or no.
your faces. For me, I will make shift for one; and so God's curse
your several dwelling-places; and not to wear, handle, or
your town, and things call'd whips?
A FATHER that has killed his son
A HUNTSMAN
A LIEUTENANT, a SHIPMASTER, a MASTER'S MATE, and WALTER WHITMORE
A NOBLEMAN                         TWO KEEPERS
A SON that has killed his father
A SPIRIT raised by him
ALENCON.  [To CHARLES]  To say the truth, it is your policy
ALENCON. All France will be replete with mirth and joy
ALENCON. By thrusting out a torch from yonder tower;
ALENCON. Defer no time, delays have dangerous ends;
ALENCON. Doubtless he shrives this woman to her smock;
ALENCON. For ever should they be expuls'd from France,
ALENCON. Had all your quarters been as safely kept
ALENCON. He may mean more than we poor men do know;
ALENCON. Here cometh Charles; I marvel how he sped.
ALENCON. How now, my lords? What, all unready so?
ALENCON. Leave off delays, and let us raise the siege.
ALENCON. Must he be then as shadow of himself?
ALENCON. Of all exploits since first I follow'd arms
ALENCON. Pucelle hath bravely play'd her part in this,
ALENCON. Signior, no.
ALENCON. Then march to Paris, royal Charles of France,
ALEXANDER IDEN, a Kentish gentleman
ALL. A Clifford! a Clifford! We'll follow the King and Clifford.
ALL. Ay, marry, will we; therefore get ye gone.
ALL. Come, let's be gone.                               Exeunt
ALL. God save the King! God save the King!
ALL. God save the King! God save the King!
ALL. God save your Majesty!
ALL. He hath confess'd. Away with him! He's a villain and a
ALL. It shall be done.
ALL. No, no; and therefore we'll have his head.
ALL. O, brave!
ALL. We'll follow Cade, we'll follow Cade!
ALL. Welcome, high Prince, the mighty Duke of York!
ALL. [Kneeling] Long live Queen Margaret, England's happiness!
BASSET. And I with him; for he hath done me wrong.
BASSET. And me, my lord, grant me the combat too.
BASSET. Confirm it so, mine honourable lord.
BASSET. Crossing the sea from England into France,
BASSET. Villain, thou knowest the law of arms is such
BASSET. Why, what is he? As good a man as York!
BASSET. Yes, sir; as well as you dare patronage
BASTARD. And doth beget new courage in our breasts.
BASTARD. Here ent'red Pucelle and her practisants;
BASTARD. Hew them to pieces, hack their bones asunder,
BASTARD. How the young whelp of Talbot's, raging wood,
BASTARD. I think this Talbot be a fiend of hell.
BASTARD. Mine was secure.
BASTARD. Search out thy wit for secret policies,
BASTARD. See, noble Charles, the beacon of our friend;
BASTARD. Tut! holy Joan was his defensive guard.
BASTARD. Unready! Ay, and glad we 'scap'd so well.
BEADLE. I will, my lord. Come on, sirrah; off with your doublet
BEDFORD. 'Tis thought, Lord Talbot, when the fight began,
BEDFORD. A maid! and be so martial!
BEDFORD. Agreed; I'll to yond corner.
BEDFORD. Ascend, brave Talbot; we will follow thee.
BEDFORD. Coward of France, how much he wrongs his fame,
BEDFORD. Lord Talbot, do not so dishonour me;
BEDFORD. No, truly; 'tis more than manners will;
BEDFORD. Not to be gone from hence; for once I read
BEDFORD. Now, quiet soul, depart when heaven please,
BEDFORD. O, let no words, but deeds, revenge this treason!
BEDFORD. The day begins to break, and night is fled
BOLINGBROKE. 'What fates await the Duke of Suffolk?'
BOLINGBROKE. 'What shall befall the Duke of Somerset?'
BOLINGBROKE. Descend to darkness and the burning lake;
BOLINGBROKE. I have heard her reported to be a woman of an
BOLINGBROKE. Master Hume, we are therefore provided; will her
BOLINGBROKE. Patience, good lady; wizards know their times:
BOLINGBROKE. [Reads] 'First of the king: what shall of him become?'
BONA, sister to the French Queen
BOTH. Long live our sovereign Richard, England's King!
BOY. Father, I know; and oft have shot at them,
BOY. Father, I warrant you; take you no care;
BUCKINGHAM. A messenger from Henry, our dread liege,
BUCKINGHAM. All in this presence are thy betters, Warwick.
BUCKINGHAM. Ay, here they be that dare and will disturb thee.
BUCKINGHAM. He'll wrest the sense, and hold us here all day.
BUCKINGHAM. Health and glad tidings to your Majesty!
BUCKINGHAM. I will, my lord, and doubt not so to deal
BUCKINGHAM. Lord Cardinal, I will follow Eleanor,
BUCKINGHAM. My gracious lord, retire to Killingworth
BUCKINGHAM. Or thou or I, Somerset, will be Protector,
BUCKINGHAM. So please it you, my lord, 'twere not amiss
BUCKINGHAM. Such as my heart doth tremble to unfold:
BUCKINGHAM. That is too much presumption on thy part;
BUCKINGHAM. Then linger not, my lord; away, take horse.
BUCKINGHAM. Thy cruelty in execution
BUCKINGHAM. True, madam, none at all. What can you this?
BUCKINGHAM. Trust nobody, for fear you be betray'd.
BUCKINGHAM. Tut, these are petty faults to faults unknown
BUCKINGHAM. Upon mine honour, he is prisoner.
BUCKINGHAM. What answer makes your Grace to the rebels'
BUCKINGHAM. What, is he fled? Go some, and follow him;
BUCKINGHAM. Why should he then protect our sovereign,
BUCKINGHAM. York, I commend this kind submission.
BUCKINGHAM. York, if thou meanest well I greet thee well.
BUCKINGHAM. Your Grace shall give me leave, my Lord of York,
BURGUNDY. And I to this.
BURGUNDY. Courageous Bedford, let us now persuade you.
BURGUNDY. Doubtless he would have made a noble knight.
BURGUNDY. Either she hath bewitch'd me with her words,
BURGUNDY. I am vanquished; these haughty words of hers
BURGUNDY. I trust the ghost of Talbot is not there.
BURGUNDY. Is it even so? Nay, then I see our wars
BURGUNDY. My vows are equal partners with thy vows.
BURGUNDY. Myself, as far as I could well discern
BURGUNDY. Pray God she prove not masculine ere long,
BURGUNDY. Scoff on, vile fiend and shameless courtezan.
BURGUNDY. Speak on; but be not over-tedious.
BURGUNDY. Traitors have never other company.
BURGUNDY. Warlike and martial Talbot, Burgundy
BURGUNDY. What Lord Talbot pleaseth Burgundy.
BURGUNDY. What say'st thou, Charles? for I am marching
BURGUNDY. Who craves a parley with the Burgundy?
CADE. And Adam was a gardener.
CADE. And good reason; for thereby is England main'd and fain to go
CADE. And henceforward all things shall be in common.
CADE. And you that love the commons follow me.
CADE. And, to speak truth, thou deserv'st no less. [Putting on SIR
CADE. As for these silken-coated slaves, I pass not;
CADE. Away with him, I say! Hang him with his pen and inkhorn about
CADE. Away with him, and do as I command ye.  [Exeunt some with
CADE. Away with him, away with him! He speaks Latin.
CADE. Ay, there's the question; but I say 'tis true.
CADE. Be brave, then, for your captain is brave, and vows
CADE. Be it a lordship, thou shalt have it for that word.
CADE. Brave thee? Ay, by the best blood that ever was broach'd, and
CADE. But is not this braver? Let them kiss one another, for they
CADE. But then are we in order when we are most out of order. Come,
CADE. By her he had two children at one birth.
CADE. By my valour, the most complete champion that ever I heard!
CADE. Come then, let's go fight with them. But first go and set
CADE. Fear not that, I warrant thee. Come, let's march towards
CADE. Fie on ambitions! Fie on myself, that have a sword and yet am
CADE. For our enemies shall fall before us, inspired with the
CADE. Give him a box o' th' ear, and that will make 'em red again.
CADE. Here I am, thou particular fellow.
CADE. Here's a villain!
CADE. Here's the lord of the soil come to seize me for a stray, for
CADE. I am able to endure much.
CADE. I am sorry for't; the man is a proper man, of mine honour;
CADE. I fear neither sword nor fire.
CADE. I have thought upon it; it shall be so. Away, burn all the
CADE. I thank you, good people- there shall be no money; all shall
CADE. Iden, farewell; and be proud of thy victory. Tell Kent from
CADE. Knock him down there.                    [They kill him]
CADE. Let me alone. Dost thou use to write thy name, or hast thou a
CADE. Marry, presently.
CADE. Marry, this: Edmund Mortimer, Earl of March,
CADE. Marry, thou ought'st not to let thy horse wear a cloak, when
CADE. My father was a Mortimer-
CADE. My mother a Plantagenet-
CADE. My wife descended of the Lacies-
CADE. Nay, answer if you can; the Frenchmen are our enemies. Go to,
CADE. Nay, he nods at us, as who should say 'I'll be even with
CADE. Nay, that I mean to do. Is not this a lamentable thing, that
CADE. Nay, then he is a conjurer.
CADE. Now is Mortimer lord of this city. And here, sitting upon
CADE. O monstrous!
CADE. So, sirs. Now go some and pull down the Savoy; others to th'
CADE. Stand, villain, stand, or I'll fell thee down. He shall be
CADE. Therefore am I of an honourable house.
CADE. They fell before thee like sheep and oxen, and thou behavedst
CADE. To equal him, I will make myself a knight presently.
CADE. Tut, when struck'st thou one blow in the field?
CADE. Up Fish Street! down Saint Magnus' Corner! Kill and knock
CADE. Valiant I am.
CADE. Was ever feather so lightly blown to and fro as this
CADE. We John Cade, so term'd of our supposed father-
CADE. Well, he shall be beheaded for it ten times. Ah, thou say,
CADE. What, Buckingham and Clifford, are ye so brave?
CADE. Where's Dick, the butcher of Ashford?
CADE. Ye shall have a hempen caudle then, and the help of hatchet.
CADE. [Aside] He lies, for I invented it myself- Go to, sirrah,
CADE. [Aside] I feel remorse in myself with his words; but I'll
CAPTAIN. Cowardly knight! ill fortune follow thee!
CAPTAIN. I do, my lord, and mean accordingly.           Exeunt
CAPTAIN. What! Will you and leave Lord Talbot?
CAPTAIN. Whither away, Sir John Fastolfe, in such haste?
CARDINAL BEAUFORT, BISHOP OF WINCHESTER, great-uncle to the King
CARDINAL. A breach that craves a quick expedient stop!
CARDINAL. Ambitious Warwick, let thy betters speak.
CARDINAL. And so, my Lord Protector, by this means
CARDINAL. Believe me, cousin Gloucester,
CARDINAL. Bring me unto my trial when you will.
CARDINAL. But I would have him dead, my Lord of Suffolk,
CARDINAL. Charles, and the rest, it is enacted thus:
CARDINAL. Did he not, contrary to form of law,
CARDINAL. Duke Humphrey has done a miracle to-day.
CARDINAL. God's secret judgment! I did dream to-night
CARDINAL. Here comes the townsmen on procession
CARDINAL. I thought as much; he would be above the clouds.
CARDINAL. If thou be'st Death I'll give thee England's treasure,
CARDINAL. It serves you well, my lord, to say so much.
CARDINAL. Let me be blessed for the peace I make
CARDINAL. Lord Regent, I do greet your Excellence
CARDINAL. My Lord of Gloucester, now ye grow too hot:
CARDINAL. My Lord of York, try what your fortune is.
CARDINAL. My liege, his railing is intolerable.
CARDINAL. Nephew, what means this passionate discourse,
CARDINAL. No more of him; for I will deal with him
CARDINAL. Sirs, take away the Duke, and guard him sure.
CARDINAL. So, there goes our Protector in a rage.
CARDINAL. That he should die is worthy policy;
CARDINAL. The commons hast thou rack'd; the clergy's bags
CARDINAL. This weighty business will not brook delay;
CARDINAL. Thy heaven is on earth; thine eyes and thoughts
CARDINAL. What, art thou lame?
CARDINAL. [Aside to GLOUCESTER] Are ye advis'd? The east side of
CARDINAL. [Aside to GLOUCESTER] Ay, where thou dar'st not peep; an
CARDINAL. [Aside to GLOUCESTER] Marry, when thou dar'st.
CARDINAL. [Aside to GLOUCESTER] Medice, teipsum;
CARDINAL. [Reads] 'Item: It is further agreed between them that the
CHARLES. 'Tis Joan, not we, by whom the day is won;
CHARLES. 'Tis known already that I am possess'd
CHARLES. A parley with the Duke of Burgundy!
CHARLES. And, for myself, most part of all this night,
CHARLES. Ay, marry, sweeting, if we could do that,
CHARLES. Divinest creature, Astraea's daughter,
CHARLES. Duke of Alencon, this was your default
CHARLES. For prisoners ask'st thou? Hell our prison is.
CHARLES. Go, call her in.                       [Exit BASTARD]
CHARLES. Go, take their bodies hence.
CHARLES. Had York and Somerset brought rescue in,
CHARLES. Is this thy cunning, thou deceitful dame?
CHARLES. It shall;
CHARLES. Meantime look gracious on thy prostrate thrall.
CHARLES. Now let us on, my lords, and join our powers,
CHARLES. Now shine it like a comet of revenge,
CHARLES. O, no; forbear! For that which we have fled
CHARLES. On what submissive message art thou sent?
CHARLES. Presently we'll try. Come, let's away about it.
CHARLES. Saint Denis bless this happy stratagem!
CHARLES. Since, lords of England, it is thus agreed
CHARLES. So we be rid of them, do with them what thou
CHARLES. Somewhat too sudden, sirs, the warning is;
CHARLES. Speak, Pucelle, and enchant him with thy words.
CHARLES. Stay, stay thy hands; thou art an Amazon,
CHARLES. Then come, o' God's name; I fear no woman.
CHARLES. Then on, my lords; and France be fortunate!
CHARLES. These news, my lords, may cheer our drooping
CHARLES. Thou hast astonish'd me with thy high terms.
CHARLES. Was Mahomet inspired with a dove?
CHARLES. We have guided by thee hitherto,
CHARLES. Welcome, brave Duke! Thy friendship makes us
CHARLES. What she says I'll confirm; we'll fight it out.
CHARLES. What tidings send our scouts? I prithee speak.
CHARLES. Whoe'er helps thee, 'tis thou that must help me.
CHARLES. Your Grace may starve, perhaps, before that time.
CLERK OF CHATHAM
CLERK. Emmanuel.
CLERK. Sir, I thank God, I have been so well brought up that I can
CLIFFORD. And from thy burgonet I'll rend thy bear
CLIFFORD. Are these thy bears? We'll bait thy bears to death,
CLIFFORD. Ay, ay, so strives the woodcock with the gin.
CLIFFORD. Ay, to such mercy as his ruthless arm
CLIFFORD. Chaplain, away! Thy priesthood saves thy life.
CLIFFORD. Come, cousin, let us tell the Queen these news.
CLIFFORD. Had I thy brethren here, their lives and thine
CLIFFORD. He is a traitor; let him to the Tower,
CLIFFORD. He is fled, my lord, and all his powers do yield,
CLIFFORD. Health and all happiness to my lord the King!
CLIFFORD. Hence, heap of wrath, foul indigested lump,
CLIFFORD. Here's for my oath, here's for my father's death.
CLIFFORD. How hast thou injur'd both thyself and or us!
CLIFFORD. How now, is he dead already? Or is it fear
CLIFFORD. I am resolv'd to bear a greater storm
CLIFFORD. I will not bandy with thee word for word,
CLIFFORD. In dreadful war mayst thou be overcome,
CLIFFORD. In vain thou speak'st, poor boy; my father's blood
CLIFFORD. Is Cade the son of Henry the Fifth,
CLIFFORD. King Henry, be thy title right or wrong,
CLIFFORD. La fin couronne les oeuvres.                  [Dies]
CLIFFORD. My soul and body on the action both!
CLIFFORD. No cause!
CLIFFORD. Nor should thy prowess want praise and esteem
CLIFFORD. Patience is for poltroons such as he;
CLIFFORD. Plantagenet, I come, Plantagenet;
CLIFFORD. So cowards fight when they can fly no further;
CLIFFORD. Soldiers, away with him!
CLIFFORD. Such pity as my rapier's point affords.
CLIFFORD. Take heed, lest by your heat you burn yourselves.
CLIFFORD. That is my office, for my father's sake.
CLIFFORD. The first I warrant thee, if dreams prove true.
CLIFFORD. The hope thereof makes Clifford mourn in steel.
CLIFFORD. This is my King, York, I do not mistake;
CLIFFORD. Thy father hath.
CLIFFORD. Urge it no more; lest that instead of words
CLIFFORD. What say ye, countrymen? Will ye relent
CLIFFORD. What seest thou in me, York? Why dost thou pause?
CLIFFORD. What wrong is this unto the Prince your son!
CLIFFORD. Whom should he follow but his natural king?
CLIFFORD. Why, what a brood of traitors have we here!
COMMONS. [Within] An answer from the King, my Lord of Salisbury!
COMMONS. [Within] An answer from the King, or we will all break in!
COUNTESS. And he is welcome. What! is this the man?
COUNTESS. If thou be he, then art thou prisoner.
COUNTESS. Is this the scourge of France?
COUNTESS. Laughest thou, wretch? Thy mirth shall turn to
COUNTESS. Porter, remember what I gave in charge;
COUNTESS. The plot is laid; if all things fall out right,
COUNTESS. Then have I substance too.
COUNTESS. This is a riddling merchant for the nonce;
COUNTESS. To me, blood-thirsty lord
COUNTESS. Victorious Talbot! pardon my abuse.
COUNTESS. What means he now? Go ask him whither he
COUNTESS. Why, art not thou the man?
COUNTESS. With all my heart, and think me honoured
DICK. And furthermore, we'll have the Lord Say's head for selling
DICK. And work in their shirt too, as myself, for example, that am
DICK. Here, sir.
DICK. I desire no more.
DICK. I have a suit unto your lordship.
DICK. If we mean to thrive and do good, break open the gaols and
DICK. My lord, there's an army gathered together in Smithfield.
DICK. My lord, when shall we go to Cheapside, and take up
DICK. Nay, 'tis too true; therefore he shall be king.
DICK. Nay, he can make obligations and write court-hand.
DICK. Only that the laws of England may come out of your mouth.
DICK. Silence!
DICK. The first thing we do, let's kill all the lawyers.
DICK. They are all in order, and march toward us.
DICK. They use to write it on the top of letters; 'twill go hard
DICK. What say you of Kent?
DICK. Why dost thou quiver, man?
DICK. [Aside] Ay, by my faith, the field is honourable, and there
DICK. [Aside] But methinks he should stand in fear of fire, being
DICK. [Aside] He was an honest man and a good bricklayer.
DICK. [Aside] I knew her well; she was a midwife.
DICK. [Aside] No question of that; for I have seen him whipt three
DICK. [Aside] Or rather, of stealing a cade of herrings.
DICK. [Aside] She was, indeed, a pedlar's daughter, and sold many
DUCHESS. Against her will, good King? Look to 't in time;
DUCHESS. Ah, Gloucester, teach me to forget myself!
DUCHESS. Art thou gone too? All comfort go with thee!
DUCHESS. Ay, ay, farewell; thy office is discharg'd.
DUCHESS. Come you, my lord, to see my open shame?
DUCHESS. It is enough; I'll think upon the questions;
DUCHESS. My shame will not be shifted with my sheet.
DUCHESS. Not half so bad as thine to England's king,
DUCHESS. Sheriff, farewell, and better than I fare,
DUCHESS. That's bad enough, for I am but reproach-
DUCHESS. Tut, this was nothing but an argument
DUCHESS. Was't I? Yea, I it was, proud Frenchwoman.
DUCHESS. Welcome is banishment; welcome were my death.
DUCHESS. Well said, my masters; and welcome all. To this gear, the
DUCHESS. What dream'd my lord? Tell me, and I'll requite it
DUCHESS. What say'st thou, man? Hast thou as yet conferr'd
DUCHESS. What say'st thou? Majesty! I am but Grace.
DUCHESS. What, gone, my lord, and bid me not farewell!
DUCHESS. What, what, my lord! Are you so choleric
DUCHESS. Why droops my lord, like over-ripen'd corn
DUCHESS. Yes, my good lord, I'll follow presently.
DUKE OF BUCKINGHAM
DUKE OF EXETER                     EARL OF OXFORD
DUKE OF NORFOLK                    MARQUIS OF MONTAGUE
DUKE OF SOMERSET
DUKE OF SUFFOLK
EARL OF NORTHUMBERLAND             EARL OF WESTMORELAND
EARL OF SALISBURY
EARL OF WARWICK
EARL OF WARWICK                    EARL OF PEMBROKE
EDMUND, EARL OF RUTLAND, his son
EDWARD and RICHARD, his sons
EDWARD, EARL OF MARCH, afterwards KING EDWARD IV, his son
EDWARD, PRINCE OF WALES, his son
EDWARD. Ay, noble father, if our words will serve.
EDWARD. But for a kingdom any oath may be broken:
EDWARD. I hear their drums. Let's set our men in order,
EDWARD. Lord Stafford's father, Duke of Buckingham,
EDWARD. No quarrel, but a slight contention.
EDWARD. No, I can better play the orator.
EDWARD. Now you are heir, therefore enjoy it now.
EDWARD. Sweet father, do so; set it on your head.
ELEANOR, Duchess of Gloucester
EXETER. Accurs'd be he that seeks to make them foes!
EXETER. And I, I hope, shall reconcile them all.        Exeunt
EXETER. Ay, we may march in England or in France,
EXETER. Beside, his wealth doth warrant a liberal dower;
EXETER. But when the Duke is slain they'll quickly fly.
EXETER. For shame, come down; he made thee Duke of York.
EXETER. Here comes the Queen, whose looks bewray her anger.
EXETER. His is the right, and therefore pardon me.
EXETER. It grieves his Highness. Good my lords, be friends.
EXETER. My conscience tells me he is lawful King.
EXETER. No; for he could not so resign his crown
EXETER. They seek revenge, and therefore will not yield.
EXETER. Thy father was a traitor to the crown.
EXETER. Well didst thou, Richard, to suppress thy voice;
EXETER. What! Is my Lord of Winchester install'd
FASTOLFE. Ay,
FASTOLFE. My gracious sovereign, as I rode from Calais,
FASTOLFE. Whither away? To save myself by flight:
FIRST CITIZEN. No, my lord, nor likely to be slain; for they have
FIRST GENTLEMAN. I'll give it, sir: and therefore spare my life.
FIRST GENTLEMAN. My gracious lord, entreat him, speak him fair.
FIRST GENTLEMAN. O barbarous and bloody spectacle!
FIRST GENTLEMAN. What is my ransom, master, let me know?
FIRST KEEPER. My lord, your loving nephew now is come.
FIRST KEEPER. Richard Plantagenet, my lord, will come.
FIRST MURDERER. 'Tis, my good lord.
FIRST MURDERER. Ay, my good lord, he's dead.
FIRST MURDERER. Here comes my lord.
FIRST MURDERER. Run to my Lord of Suffolk; let him know
FIRST NEIGHBOUR. Here, neighbour Horner, I drink to you in a cup of
FIRST PETITIONER. Here 'a comes, methinks, and the Queen with him.
FIRST PETITIONER. I pray, my lord, pardon me; I took ye for my Lord
FIRST PETITIONER. Mine is, an't please your Grace, against John
FIRST PETITIONER. My masters, let's stand close; my Lord Protector
FIRST PRENTICE. Here, Peter, I drink to thee; and be not afraid.
FIRST SENTINEL. Sergeant, you shall.           [Exit SERGEANT]
FIRST SERVING-MAN. Ay, and the very parings of our nails
FIRST SERVING-MAN. Content: I'll to the surgeon's.
FIRST SERVING-MAN. It is the noble Duke of Gloucester.
FIRST SERVING-MAN. Nay, if we be forbidden stones, we'll
FIRST SERVING-MAN. Villains, answer you so the Lord
FIRST SOLDIER. Our sacks shall be a mean to sack the city,
FIRST WARDER.  [Within]  The Lord protect him! so we
FIRST WARDER.  [Within]  Who's there that knocks so
GARGRAVE. I think at the North Gate; for there stand lords.
GARGRAVE. O Lord, have mercy on me, woeful man!
GENERAL OF THE FRENCH. Thou ominous and fearful owl of
GEORGE BEVIS, JOHN HOLLAND, DICK THE BUTCHER, SMITH THE WEAVER,
GEORGE, afterwards DUKE OF CLARENCE, his son
GEORGE. Argo, their thread of life is spun.
GEORGE. Come and get thee a sword, though made of a lath; they have
GEORGE. He shall have the skins of our enemies to make dog's
GEORGE. I tell thee Jack Cade the clothier means to dress the
GEORGE. Nay, more, the King's Council are no good workmen.
GEORGE. O miserable age! Virtue is not regarded in handicraftsmen.
GEORGE. O monstrous coward! What, to come behind folks?
GEORGE. Then is sin struck down, like an ox, and iniquity's throat
GEORGE. Thou hast hit it; for there's no better sign of a brave
GLANSDALE. And I here, at the bulwark of the bridge.
GLOUCESTER  [Aside]  Ay, but, I fear me, with a hollow
GLOUCESTER.  [Viewing the superscription]  What means his
GLOUCESTER. A proper jest, and never heard before,
GLOUCESTER. A subtle knave! But yet it shall not serve:
GLOUCESTER. Ah, Nell, forbear! Thou aimest all awry.
GLOUCESTER. Ah, gracious lord, these days are dangerous!
GLOUCESTER. Ah, thus King Henry throws away his crutch
GLOUCESTER. All happiness unto my lord the King!
GLOUCESTER. Am I not Protector, saucy priest?
GLOUCESTER. Ambitious churchman, leave to afflict my heart.
GLOUCESTER. And for the proffer of my lord your master,
GLOUCESTER. And my consent ne'er ask'd herein before!
GLOUCESTER. And so the Earl of Armagnac may do,
GLOUCESTER. As good!
GLOUCESTER. As who, my lord?
GLOUCESTER. Ay, grief, I fear me, both at first and last.
GLOUCESTER. Ay, my lord Cardinal, how think you by that?
GLOUCESTER. Ay, uncle, we will keep it if we can;
GLOUCESTER. Be patient, gentle Nell; forget this grief.
GLOUCESTER. Beside, my lord, the sooner to effect
GLOUCESTER. Brave peers of England, pillars of the state,
GLOUCESTER. But cloaks and gowns before this day a many.
GLOUCESTER. But you have done more miracles than I:
GLOUCESTER. Cardinal, I'll be no breaker of the law;
GLOUCESTER. Compassion on the King commands me stoop,
GLOUCESTER. Confirm it so? Confounded be your strife;
GLOUCESTER. Eleanor, the law, thou seest, hath judged thee.
GLOUCESTER. Entreat her not the worse in that I pray
GLOUCESTER. Faint-hearted Woodville, prizest him fore me?
GLOUCESTER. Far truer spoke than meant: I lose indeed.
GLOUCESTER. Follow the knave, and take this drab away.
GLOUCESTER. Hadst thou been his mother, thou couldst have better
GLOUCESTER. He doth, my lord, and is become your foe.
GLOUCESTER. Here, Winchester, I offer thee my hand.
GLOUCESTER. How long hast thou been blind?
GLOUCESTER. I Will not answer thee with words, but blows.
GLOUCESTER. I am come to survey the Tower this day;
GLOUCESTER. I go. Come, Nell, thou wilt ride with us?
GLOUCESTER. I have, my lord; and their intent is this:
GLOUCESTER. I say no more than truth, so help me God!
GLOUCESTER. I will not slay thee, but I'll drive thee back.
GLOUCESTER. Is it but thought so? What are they that think it?
GLOUCESTER. It is the worst, and all, my lord, he writes.
GLOUCESTER. Let them be whipp'd through every market town till they
GLOUCESTER. Lieutenant, is it you whose voice I hear?
GLOUCESTER. Lord Bishop, set the crown upon his head.
GLOUCESTER. Madam, I am Protector of the realm;
GLOUCESTER. Madam, for myself, to heaven I do appeal
GLOUCESTER. Madam, the King is old enough himself
GLOUCESTER. Mass, thou lov'dst plums well, that wouldst venture so.
GLOUCESTER. Mayor, farewell; thou dost but what thou
GLOUCESTER. Methought this staff, mine office-badge in court,
GLOUCESTER. Must you, Sir John, protect my lady here?
GLOUCESTER. My Lord of Winchester, I know your mind;
GLOUCESTER. My lord, 'tis but a base ignoble mind
GLOUCESTER. My masters of Saint Albans, have you not beadles in
GLOUCESTER. My staff! Here, noble Henry, is my staff.
GLOUCESTER. Nay, Eleanor, then must I chide outright.
GLOUCESTER. Nay, be not angry; I am pleas'd again.
GLOUCESTER. No, stir not for your lives; let her pass by.
GLOUCESTER. Nor his?
GLOUCESTER. Now fetch me a stool hither by and by. [A stool
GLOUCESTER. Now will it best avail your Majesty
GLOUCESTER. Now, Governor of Paris, take your oath
GLOUCESTER. Now, lords, my choler being overblown
GLOUCESTER. O Nell, sweet Nell, if thou dost love thy lord,
GLOUCESTER. Pardon me, gracious lord;
GLOUCESTER. Peace, Mayor! thou know'st little of my wrongs:
GLOUCESTER. Peel'd priest, dost thou command me to be
GLOUCESTER. Presumptuous priest, this place commands my
GLOUCESTER. Say'st thou me so? What colour is this cloak of?
GLOUCESTER. Sirrah, or you must fight or else be hang'd.
GLOUCESTER. So should I give consent to flatter sin.
GLOUCESTER. Stand back, thou manifest conspirator,
GLOUCESTER. Stand by, my masters; bring him near the King;
GLOUCESTER. Stay, stay, I say!
GLOUCESTER. Talking of hawking; nothing else, my lord.
GLOUCESTER. Tell me, sirrah, what's my name?
GLOUCESTER. Ten is the hour that was appointed me
GLOUCESTER. Then send for one presently.
GLOUCESTER. Then, Saunder, sit there, the lying'st knave in
GLOUCESTER. This doom, my lord, if I may judge:
GLOUCESTER. Thou art reverend
GLOUCESTER. Thus sometimes hath the brightest day a cloud,
GLOUCESTER. To say the truth, this fact was infamous
GLOUCESTER. True, uncle.
GLOUCESTER. Well urg'd, my Lord of Warwick; for, sweet
GLOUCESTER. Well, Suffolk, thou shalt not see me blush
GLOUCESTER. Well, my good lord, and as the only means
GLOUCESTER. Well, sir, we must have you find your legs.
GLOUCESTER. What means this noise?
GLOUCESTER. What! am I dar'd and bearded to my face?
GLOUCESTER. What's his name?
GLOUCESTER. What's thine own name?
GLOUCESTER. What, Cardinal, is your priesthood grown peremptory?
GLOUCESTER. What, and wouldst climb a tree?
GLOUCESTER. Who willed you, or whose will stands but
GLOUCESTER. Why, 'tis well known that whiles I was Protector
GLOUCESTER. Why, Suffolk, England knows thine insolence.
GLOUCESTER. Why, that's well said. What colour is my gown of?
GLOUCESTER. Why, what, I pray, is Margaret more than
GLOUCESTER. Winchester goose! I cry 'A rope, a rope!'
GLOUCESTER. Witness my tears, I cannot stay to speak.
GLOUCESTER. Yes, as an outlaw in a castle keeps,
GLOUCESTER. Yes, if it please your Majesty, my liege.
GLOUCESTER. You of my household, leave this peevish broil,
GLOUCESTER. Your ships already are in readiness.
GLOUCESTER. [Aside to CARDINAL] Cardinal, I am with you.
GLOUCESTER. [Aside to CARDINAL] Faith, holy uncle, would 'twere
GLOUCESTER. [Aside to CARDINAL] Make up no factious numbers for the
GLOUCESTER. [Reads] 'Imprimis: It is agreed between the French King
HENRY, EARL OF RICHMOND, a youth
HERALD. I summon your Grace to his Majesty's Parliament,
HORNER. An't shall please your Majesty, I never said nor thought
HORNER. And I accept the combat willingly.
HORNER. Hold, Peter, hold! I confess, I confess treason.
HORNER. Let it come, i' faith, and I'll pledge you all; and a fig
HORNER. Masters, I am come hither, as it were, upon my man's
HORNER`. Alas, my lord, hang me if ever I spake the words. My
HUME. Ay, what else? Fear you not her courage.
HUME. But, by the grace of God and Hume's advice,
HUME. Come, my masters; the Duchess, I tell you, expects
HUME. Hume must make merry with the Duchess' gold;
HUME. Jesus preserve your royal Majesty!
HUME. This they have promised, to show your Highness
HUMPHREY, DUKE OF GLOUCESTER, his uncle
IDEN. Alexander Iden, that's my name;
IDEN. How much thou wrong'st me, heaven be my judge.
IDEN. I was, an't like your Majesty.
IDEN. If one so rude and of so mean condition
IDEN. Is't Cade that I have slain, that monstrous traitor?
IDEN. Lord, who would live turmoiled in the court
IDEN. May Iden live to merit such a bounty,
IDEN. Nay, it shall ne'er be said, while England stands,
IDEN. Why, rude companion, whatsoe'er thou be,
JACK CADE, a rebel
JOHN HUME and JOHN SOUTHWELL, two priests
JOHN. And Dick the butcher-
JOHN. And Smith the weaver-
JOHN. And shall my youth be guilty of such blame?
JOHN. Ay, rather than I'll shame my mother's womb.
JOHN. Come, come, let's fall in with them.
JOHN. He that flies so will ne'er return again.
JOHN. I see them! I see them! There's Best's son, the tanner of
JOHN. Is my name Talbot, and am I your son?
JOHN. No part of him but will be shame in me.
JOHN. O, twice my father, twice am I thy son!
JOHN. So he had need, for 'tis threadbare. Well, I say it was never
JOHN. The nobility think scorn to go in leather aprons.
JOHN. The sword of Orleans hath not made me smart;
JOHN. Then let me stay; and, father, do you fly.
JOHN. They have the more need to sleep now, then.
JOHN. To fight I will, but not to fly the foe.
JOHN. True; and yet it is said 'Labour in thy vocation'; which is
JOHN. Yes, your renowned name; shall flight abuse it?
JOHN. You cannot witness for me, being slain.
JOHN. [Aside] Mass, 'twill be sore law then; for he was thrust in
JOHN. [Aside] Then we are like to have biting statutes, unless his
KING HENRY THE SIXTH
KING HENRY THE SIXTH
KING HENRY.  [To AMBASSADOR]  In argument and proof of
KING HENRY. A God's name, see the lists and all things fit;
KING HENRY. Ah, Exeter!
KING HENRY. Ah, know you not the city favours them,
KING HENRY. Ah, what a sign it is of evil life
KING HENRY. Ah, woe is me for Gloucester, wretched man!
KING HENRY. An if he may, then am I lawful King;
KING HENRY. And I, with grief and sorrow, to the court.
KING HENRY. And long live thou, and these thy forward sons!
KING HENRY. And otherwise will Henry ne'er presume.
KING HENRY. And shall I stand, and thou sit in my throne?
KING HENRY. And those occasions, uncle, were of force;
KING HENRY. Art thou against us, Duke of Exeter?
KING HENRY. Away with them to prison; and the day of combat shall
KING HENRY. Ay, Clifford; a bedlam and ambitious humour
KING HENRY. Ay, Margaret; my heart is drown'd with grief,
KING HENRY. Ay, marry, uncle; for I always thought
KING HENRY. Be patient, gentle Earl of Westmoreland.
KING HENRY. Be patient, gentle queen, and I will stay.
KING HENRY. Be patient, lords, and give them leave to speak.
KING HENRY. Buckingham, doth York intend no harm to us,
KING HENRY. But what a point, my lord, your falcon made,
KING HENRY. Call Buckingham, and bid him arm himself.
KING HENRY. Can we outrun the heavens? Good Margaret, stay.
KING HENRY. Canst thou dispense with heaven for such an oath?
KING HENRY. Cold news, Lord Somerset; but God's will be done!
KING HENRY. Come Margaret; God, our hope, will succour us.
KING HENRY. Come hither, you that would be combatants:
KING HENRY. Come, wife, let's in, and learn to govern better;
KING HENRY. Exeter, so will I.
KING HENRY. Far be the thought of this from Henry's heart,
KING HENRY. Fie, uncle Beaufort! I have heard you preach
KING HENRY. For my part, noble lords, I care not which:
KING HENRY. Forbear to judge, for we are sinners all.
KING HENRY. Gentle son Edward, thou wilt stay with me?
KING HENRY. Go call our uncle to our presence straight;
KING HENRY. Go, Salisbury, and tell them all from me
KING HENRY. Go, take hence that traitor from our sight,
KING HENRY. Good Lord, what madness rules in brainsick
KING HENRY. Good fellow, tell us here the circumstance,
KING HENRY. Great is his comfort in this earthly vale,
KING HENRY. Hast thou not sworn allegiance unto me?
KING HENRY. Have you perus'd the letters from the Pope,
KING HENRY. Henry the Fourth by conquest got the crown.
KING HENRY. Her sight did ravish, but her grace in speech,
KING HENRY. How art thou call'd? And what is thy degree?
KING HENRY. How doth your Grace affect their motion?
KING HENRY. How fares my lord? Speak, Beaufort, to thy sovereign.
KING HENRY. How now! What news? Why com'st thou in such haste?
KING HENRY. How now, madam!
KING HENRY. How now, my lords!
KING HENRY. I am content. Richard Plantagenet,
KING HENRY. I muse my Lord of Gloucester is not come.
KING HENRY. I prithee, peace,
KING HENRY. I thank thee, Meg; these words content me much.
KING HENRY. I'll send some holy bishop to entreat;
KING HENRY. Iden, kneel down. [He kneels] Rise up a knight.
KING HENRY. If Richard will be true, not that alone
KING HENRY. In any case be not too rough in terms,
KING HENRY. Is that the worst this letter doth contain?
KING HENRY. Is this the Lord Talbot, uncle Gloucester,
KING HENRY. Lord Say, Jack Cade hath sworn to have thy head.
KING HENRY. Lord Say, the traitors hate thee;
KING HENRY. Lords, take your places; and, I pray you all,
KING HENRY. Marriage, uncle! Alas, my years are young
KING HENRY. My Lord of Gloucester, 'tis my special hope
KING HENRY. My Lord of Warwick, hear but one word:
KING HENRY. My Lords Ambassadors, your several suits
KING HENRY. My lords, at once: the care you have of us,
KING HENRY. My lords, look where the sturdy rebel sits,
KING HENRY. My lords, what to your wisdoms seemeth best
KING HENRY. Not for myself, Lord Warwick, but my son,
KING HENRY. Now God be prais'd that to believing souls
KING HENRY. O Clifford, how thy words revive my heart!
KING HENRY. O God, seest Thou this, and bearest so long?
KING HENRY. O God, what mischiefs work the wicked ones,
KING HENRY. O Thou eternal Mover of the heavens,
KING HENRY. O Thou that judgest all things, stay my thoughts-
KING HENRY. O graceless men! they know not what they do.
KING HENRY. O loving uncle, kind Duke of Gloucester,
KING HENRY. O, how this discord doth afflict my soul!
KING HENRY. Pardon me, Margaret; pardon me, sweet son.
KING HENRY. Peace thou! and give King Henry leave to speak.
KING HENRY. Peace to his soul, if God's good pleasure be!
KING HENRY. Poor queen! How love to me and to her son
KING HENRY. Poor soul, God's goodness hath been great to thee.
KING HENRY. Say, man, were these thy words?
KING HENRY. See, Buckingham! Somerset comes with th' Queen:
KING HENRY. Stain to thy countrymen, thou hear'st thy
KING HENRY. Stand forth, Dame Eleanor Cobham, Gloucester's wife:
KING HENRY. Stay, Humphrey Duke of Gloucester; ere thou go,
KING HENRY. Stay, gentle Margaret, and hear me speak.
KING HENRY. Stoop then and set your knee against my foot;
KING HENRY. Suffolk, arise. Welcome, Queen Margaret:
KING HENRY. Sweet aunt, be quiet; 'twas against her will.
KING HENRY. That he is dead, good Warwick, 'tis too true;
KING HENRY. That is to see how deep my grave is made;
KING HENRY. The Lord Protector lost it, and not I:
KING HENRY. The head of Cade! Great God, how just art Thou!
KING HENRY. The treasury of everlasting joy!
KING HENRY. The winds grow high; so do your stomachs, lords.
KING HENRY. Then gather strength and march unto him
KING HENRY. Then what intends these forces thou dost bring?
KING HENRY. Then, heaven, set ope thy everlasting gates,
KING HENRY. They please us well. Lord Marquess, kneel down.
KING HENRY. Think'st thou that I will leave my kingly throne,
KING HENRY. Thus stands my state, 'twixt Cade and York distress'd;
KING HENRY. Uncle of Winchester, I pray read on.
KING HENRY. Uncle, how now!
KING HENRY. Uncle, what shall we say to this in law?
KING HENRY. Uncles of Gloucester and of Winchester,
KING HENRY. Ungentle Queen, to call him gentle Suffolk!
KING HENRY. Was ever king that joy'd an earthly throne
KING HENRY. We charge you, on allegiance to ourself,
KING HENRY. Welcome, Lord Somerset. What news from France?
KING HENRY. Welcome, brave captain and victorious lord!
KING HENRY. Well, for this night we will repose us here.
KING HENRY. What is that wrong whereof you both
KING HENRY. What mean'st thou, Suffolk? Tell me, what are these?
KING HENRY. What stronger breastplate than a heart untainted?
KING HENRY. What tidings with our cousin Buckingham?
KING HENRY. What title hast thou, traitor, to the crown?
KING HENRY. What! Doth my uncle Burgundy revolt?
KING HENRY. What, doth my Lord of Suffolk comfort me?
KING HENRY. When Gloucester says the word, King Henry
KING HENRY. Where wert thou born?
KING HENRY. Whether it be through force of your report,
KING HENRY. Why then Lord Talbot there shall talk with
KING HENRY. Why, Buckingham, is the traitor Cade surpris'd?
KING HENRY. Why, Warwick, hath thy knee forgot to bow?
KING HENRY. Why, how now, uncle Gloucester!
KING HENRY. Why, then, thou know'st what colour jet is of?
KING HENRY. Your wondrous rare description, noble Earl,
KING HENRY. [Aside] All will revolt from me, and turn to him.
KING HENRY. [Aside] I know not what to say; my title's weak.-
KING HENRY. [To LORD SAY] Farewell, my lord, trust not the Kentish
KING. O heavenly God!
KING. Why, how now, lords, your wrathful weapons drawn
LADY GREY, afterwards QUEEN to Edward IV
LAWYER.  [To Somerset]  Unless my study and my books be
LAWYER. And so will I.
LEGATE. I will attend upon your lordship's leisure.
LEWIS XI, King of France           DUKE OF SOMERSET
LIEUTENANT. And as for these, whose ransom we have set,
LIEUTENANT. Ay, kennel, puddle, sink, whose filth and dirt
LIEUTENANT. Be not so rash; take ransom, let him live.
LIEUTENANT. But Jove was never slain, as thou shalt be.
LIEUTENANT. Convey him hence, and on our longboat's side
LIEUTENANT. First let my words stab him, as he hath me.
LIEUTENANT. Hale him away, and let him talk no more.
LIEUTENANT. Poole!
LIEUTENANT. The gaudy, blabbing, and remorseful day
LIEUTENANT. Walter-
LIEUTENANT. What, think you much to pay two thousand crowns,
LORD CLIFFORD
LORD CLIFFORD
LORD HASTINGS                      LORD STAFFORD
LORD RIVERS, brother to Lady Grey
LORD SAY
LORD SCALES
LUCY. And York as fast upon your Grace exclaims,
LUCY. But where's the great Alcides of the field,
LUCY. Herald, conduct me to the Dauphin's tent,
LUCY. His fame lives in the world, his shame in you.       Exeunt
LUCY. I'll bear them hence; but from their ashes shall be
LUCY. Is Talbot slain-the Frenchmen's only scourge,
LUCY. O, send some succour to the distress'd lord!
LUCY. Submission, Dauphin! 'Tis a mere French word:
LUCY. The fraud of England, not the force of France,
LUCY. Then God take mercy on brave Talbot's soul,
LUCY. Thou princely leader of our English strength,
LUCY. Thus, while the vulture of sedition
LUCY. Too late comes rescue; he is ta'en or slain,
LUCY. Whither, my lord! From bought and sold Lord
Lords, Ladies, and Attendants; Petitioners, Aldermen, a Herald,
MARGARET, Queen to King Henry
MARGARET.  [Aside]  Perhaps I shall be rescu'd by the French;
MARGARET.  [Aside]  Tush! women have been captivate ere
MARGARET.  [Aside]  What though I be enthrall'd? He seems
MARGARET. An if my father please, I am content.
MARGARET. And yet I would that you would answer me.
MARGARET. Farewell, my lord. Good wishes, praise, and
MARGARET. He talks at random; sure, the man is mad.
MARGARET. He talks of wood. It is some carpenter.
MARGARET. Hear ye, Captain-are you not at leisure?
MARGARET. I am unworthy to be Henry's wife.
MARGARET. I cry you mercy, 'tis but quid for quo.
MARGARET. I were best leave him, for he will not hear.
MARGARET. Margaret my name, and daughter to a king,
MARGARET. Say, Earl of Suffolk, if thy name be so,
MARGARET. Such commendations as becomes a maid,
MARGARET. That for thyself, I will not so presume
MARGARET. To be a queen in bondage is more vile
MARGARET. What?
MARGARET. Why speak'st thou not? What ransom must I
MARGARET. Why, what concerns his freedom unto me?
MARGARET. Wilt thou accept of ransom-yea or no?
MARGARET. Yes, my good lord: a pure unspotted heart,
MARGERY JOURDAIN, a witch
MARGERY JOURDAIN. Asmath,
MASTER-GUNNER. But now thou shalt not. Be thou rul'd
MASTER-GUNNER. Sirrah, thou know'st how Orleans is
MASTER. A thousand crowns, or else lay down your head.
MATE. And so much shall you give, or off goes yours.
MATTHEW GOFFE
MAYOR OF SAINT ALBANS
MAYOR OF YORK                      LIEUTENANT OF THE TOWER
MAYOR. Fie, lords! that you, being supreme magistrates,
MAYOR. I'll call for clubs if you will not away.
MAYOR. Nought rests for me in this tumultuous strife
MAYOR. O, my good lords, and virtuous Henry,
MAYOR. See the coast clear'd, and then we will depart.
MAYOR. Sirrah, go fetch the beadle hither straight.
MAYOR. Yes, my lord, if it please your Grace.
MESSENGER. All hail, my lords! Which of this princely train
MESSENGER. Madam, according as your ladyship desir'd,
MESSENGER. Madam, it is.
MESSENGER. My Lord Protector, 'tis his Highness' pleasure
MESSENGER. My lord, a prize, a prize! Here's the Lord Say, which
MESSENGER. My lord, my lord, the French have gather'd
MESSENGER. Please it your Grace to be advertised
MESSENGER. Stay, my Lord Talbot; for my lady craves
MESSENGER. The Queen with all the northern earls and lords
MESSENGER. The rebels are in Southwark; fly, my lord!
MESSENGER. The virtuous lady, Countess of Auvergne,
MESSENGER. They are return'd, my lord, and give it out
MICHAEL. Fly, fly, fly! Sir Humphrey Stafford and his brother are
MICHAEL. No.
MICHAEL. Where's our General?
MONTAGUE. And I unto the sea, from whence I came.
MONTAGUE. And, brother, here's the Earl of Wiltshire's blood,
MONTAGUE. Brother, I go; I'll win them, fear it not.
MONTAGUE. But I have reasons strong and forcible.
MONTAGUE. Good brother, as thou lov'st and honourest arms,
MORTIMER. Direct mine arms I may embrace his neck
MORTIMER. Enough; my soul shall then be satisfied.
MORTIMER. I will, if that my fading breath permit
MORTIMER. Kind keepers of my weak decaying age,
MORTIMER. Richard Plantagenet, my friend, is he come?
MORTIMER. That cause, fair nephew, that imprison'd me
MORTIMER. Thou dost then wrong me, as that slaughterer
MORTIMER. True; and thou seest that I no issue have,
MORTIMER. With silence, nephew, be thou politic;
NORFOLK. And I to Norfolk with my followers.
NORFOLK. Such hope have all the line of John of Gaunt!
NORFOLK. We'll all assist you; he that flies shall die.
NORTHUMBERLAND. Be thou a prey unto the house of York
NORTHUMBERLAND. Beshrew me, but his passions move me so
NORTHUMBERLAND. Had he been slaughter-man to all my kin,
NORTHUMBERLAND. Hold, Clifford! do not honour him so much
NORTHUMBERLAND. If I be not, heavens be reveng'd on me!
NORTHUMBERLAND. Nor I.
NORTHUMBERLAND. Plantagenet, for all the claim thou lay'st,
NORTHUMBERLAND. So doth the cony struggle in the net.
NORTHUMBERLAND. Thou art deceiv'd. 'Tis not thy southern power
NORTHUMBERLAND. Well hast thou spoken, cousin; be it so.
NORTHUMBERLAND. What would your Grace have done unto him now?
NORTHUMBERLAND. Yes, Warwick, I remember it to my grief;
NORTHUMBERLAND. Yield to our mercy, proud Plantagenet.
OFFICER.  [Cries]  All manner of men assembled here in arms
OFFICER. Here is Sir William Lucy, who with me
PETER, his man
PETER. Alas, my lord, I cannot fight; for God's sake, pity my case!
PETER. I thank you all. Drink, and pray for me, I pray you; for I
PETER. O God, have I overcome mine enemies in this presence? O
PETER. Peter, forsooth.
PETER. That my master was? No, forsooth. My master said that he
PETER. Thump.
PETER. [Holding up his hands] By these ten bones, my lords, he did
PETER. [Presenting his petition] Against my master, Thomas Horner,
PLANTAGENET.  [Aside]  Plantagenet, I see, must hold his
PLANTAGENET. And I.
PLANTAGENET. And peace, no war, befall thy parting soul!
PLANTAGENET. And so thrive Richard as thy foes may fall!
PLANTAGENET. And, by my soul, this pale and angry rose,
PLANTAGENET. Ay, noble uncle, thus ignobly us'd,
PLANTAGENET. Ay, sharp and piercing, to maintain his truth;
PLANTAGENET. Discover more at large what cause that was,
PLANTAGENET. First, lean thine aged back against mine arm;
PLANTAGENET. Good Master Vernon, I am bound to you
PLANTAGENET. Great lords and gentlemen, what means this
PLANTAGENET. Hath not thy rose a canker, Somerset?
PLANTAGENET. He bears him on the place's privilege,
PLANTAGENET. How I am brav'd, and must perforce endure
PLANTAGENET. Meantime your cheeks do counterfeit our
PLANTAGENET. My father was attached, not attainted;
PLANTAGENET. Now, Somerset, where is your argument?
PLANTAGENET. Now, by this maiden blossom in my hand,
PLANTAGENET. O uncle, would some part of my young years
PLANTAGENET. Of Which, my lord, your honour is the last.
PLANTAGENET. Proud Pole, I will, and scorn both him and
PLANTAGENET. Since you are tongue-tied and so loath to speak,
PLANTAGENET. Thanks, gentle sir.
PLANTAGENET. Then say at once if I maintain'd the truth;
PLANTAGENET. Thy grave admonishments prevail with me.
PLANTAGENET. Thy humble servant vows obedience
PLANTAGENET. Tut, tut, here is a mannerly forbearance:
PORTER. Madam, I will.
POST. Great lords, from Ireland am I come amain
PRINCE OF WALES. Father, you cannot disinherit me.
PRINCE OF WALES. When I return with victory from the field
PUCELLE, that witch, that damned sorceress,
PUCELLE. A plaguing mischief fight on Charles and thee!
PUCELLE. Advance our waving colours on the walls;
PUCELLE. And while I live I'll ne'er fly from a man.
PUCELLE. Are ye so hot, sir? Yet, Pucelle, hold thy peace;
PUCELLE. Assign'd am I to be the English scourge.
PUCELLE. Away, captains! Let's get us from the walls;
PUCELLE. Behold, this is the happy wedding torch
PUCELLE. Belike your lordship takes us then for fools,
PUCELLE. Besides, all French and France exclaims on thee,
PUCELLE. Brave Burgundy, undoubted hope of France!
PUCELLE. Chang'd to a worser shape thou canst not be.
PUCELLE. Christ's Mother helps me, else I were too weak.
PUCELLE. Come, come, 'tis only I that must disgrace thee.
PUCELLE. Dauphin, I am by birth a shepherd's daughter,
PUCELLE. Decrepit miser! base ignoble wretch!
PUCELLE. Dismay not, Princes, at this accident,
PUCELLE. Done like a Frenchman-  [Aside]  turn and turn
PUCELLE. First let me tell you whom you have condemn'd:
PUCELLE. Good morrow, gallants! Want ye corn for bread?
PUCELLE. Here's a silly-stately style indeed!
PUCELLE. I am prepar'd; here is my keen-edg'd sword,
PUCELLE. I must not yield to any rites of love,
PUCELLE. I prithee give me leave to curse awhile.
PUCELLE. I think this upstart is old Talbot's ghost,
PUCELLE. Look on thy country, look on fertile France,
PUCELLE. Now, Rouen, I'll shake thy bulwarks to the
PUCELLE. O, give me leave, I have deluded you.
PUCELLE. Of all base passions fear is most accurs'd.
PUCELLE. Once I encount'red him, and thus I said:
PUCELLE. Paysans, pauvres gens de France
PUCELLE. Peace be amongst them, if they turn to us;
PUCELLE. Peasant, avaunt! You have suborn'd this man
PUCELLE. Question, my lords, no further of the case,
PUCELLE. Reignier, is 't thou that thinkest to beguile me?
PUCELLE. Talbot, farewell; thy hour is not yet come.
PUCELLE. The Regent conquers and the Frenchmen fly.
PUCELLE. The princely Charles of France, thy countryman.
PUCELLE. Then lead me hence-with whom I leave my
PUCELLE. Then thus it must be; this doth Joan devise:
PUCELLE. These are the city gates, the gates of Rouen,
PUCELLE. What you do, good grey beard? Break a
PUCELLE. Wherefore is Charles impatient with his friend?
PUCELLE. Why, no, I say; distrustful recreants!
PUCELLE. Will nothing turn your unrelenting hearts?
PUCELLE. You are deceiv'd; my child is none of his:
PUCELLE. Your honours shall perceive how I will work
QUEEN MARGARET
QUEEN MARGARET. And here's to right our gentle-hearted king.
QUEEN MARGARET. Ay, to be murder'd by his enemies.
QUEEN MARGARET. Brave warriors, Clifford and Northumberland,
QUEEN MARGARET. Come, son, away; we may not linger thus.
QUEEN MARGARET. Enforc'd thee! Art thou King and wilt be
QUEEN MARGARET. Hold, valiant Clifford; for a thousand causes
QUEEN MARGARET. Nay, go not from me; I will follow thee.
QUEEN MARGARET. Nay, stay; let's hear the orisons he makes.
QUEEN MARGARET. Thou hast spoke too much already; get thee gone.
QUEEN MARGARET. What, weeping-ripe, my Lord Northumberland?
QUEEN MARGARET. Who can be patient in such extremes?
QUEEN. A subtle traitor needs no sophister.
QUEEN. Ah, barbarous villains! Hath this lovely face
QUEEN. Ah, were the Duke of Suffolk now alive,
QUEEN. Ah, what's more dangerous than this fond affiance?
QUEEN. And as for you, that love to be protected
QUEEN. And here comes Clifford to deny their bail.
QUEEN. And so say I.
QUEEN. And take my heart with thee.           [She kisses him]
QUEEN. And thy ambition, Gloucester.
QUEEN. Are you the butcher, Suffolk? Where's your knife?
QUEEN. Away! Though parting be a fretful corrosive,
QUEEN. Away, my lord! You are slow; for shame, away!
QUEEN. Ay, good my lord; for purposely therefore
QUEEN. Be woe for me, more wretched than he is.
QUEEN. Because the King, forsooth, will have it so.
QUEEN. Believe me, lords, for flying at the brook,
QUEEN. Beside the haughty Protector, have we Beaufort
QUEEN. But I can give the loser leave to chide.
QUEEN. Call hither Clifford; bid him come amain,
QUEEN. Can you not see, or will ye not observe
QUEEN. Enough, sweet Suffolk, thou torment'st thyself;
QUEEN. Fie, coward woman and soft-hearted wretch,
QUEEN. For thousand Yorks he shall not hide his head,
QUEEN. Free lords, cold snow melts with the sun's hot beams:
QUEEN. Gloucester, see here the tainture of thy nest;
QUEEN. Go tell this heavy message to the King.       Exit VAUX
QUEEN. God forbid any malice should prevail
QUEEN. Great King of England, and my gracious lord,
QUEEN. He dares not calm his contumelious spirit,
QUEEN. He is arrested, but will not obey;
QUEEN. How fares my gracious lord?
QUEEN. How fares my lord? Help, lords! The King is dead.
QUEEN. I see no reason why a king of years
QUEEN. If he be old enough, what needs your Grace
QUEEN. It made me laugh to see the villain run.
QUEEN. Marry, God forfend!
QUEEN. Mischance and sorrow go along with you!
QUEEN. My Lord of Suffolk, say, is this the guise,
QUEEN. My hope is gone, now Suffolk is deceas'd.
QUEEN. Nay then, this spark will prove a raging fire,
QUEEN. No, my love, I should not mourn, but die for thee.
QUEEN. Not all these lords do vex me half so much
QUEEN. O Henry, let me plead for gentle Suffolk!
QUEEN. O, let me entreat thee cease! Give me thy hand,
QUEEN. Oft have I heard that grief softens the mind
QUEEN. Run, go, help, help! O Henry, ope thine eyes!
QUEEN. So the poor chicken should be sure of death.
QUEEN. Tell me, good fellow, cam'st thou here by chance,
QUEEN. Then you, belike, suspect these noblemen
QUEEN. This way for me.                       Exeunt severally
QUEEN. Thrice-noble Suffolk, 'tis resolutely spoke.
QUEEN. Thy sale of offices and towns in France,
QUEEN. We thank you all.                            [Flourish]
QUEEN. What are you made of? You'll nor fight nor fly.
QUEEN. What noise is this?
QUEEN. What say'st thou? Did the Duke of York say he was rightful
QUEEN. What, will your Highness leave the Parliament?
QUEEN. Whither goes Vaux so fast? What news, I prithee?
QUEEN. Why do you rate my Lord of Suffolk thus?
QUEEN. Why, now is Henry King, and Margaret Queen,
QUEEN. [Reads] 'To my Lord Protector!' Are your supplications to
REIGNIER.  [To CHARLES]  My lord, you do not well in
REIGNIER. 'Twas time, I trow, to wake and leave our beds,
REIGNIER. And I again, in Henry's royal name,
REIGNIER. And so was mine, my lord.
REIGNIER. Fair maid, is 't thou wilt do these wondrous feats?
REIGNIER. I do embrace thee as I would embrace
REIGNIER. If not of hell, the heavens, sure, favour him
REIGNIER. My lord, methinks, is very long in talk.
REIGNIER. My lord, where are you? What devise you on?
REIGNIER. Shall we disturb him, since he keeps no mean?
REIGNIER. She takes upon her bravely at first dash.
REIGNIER. Since thou dost deign to woo her little worth
REIGNIER. Speaks Suffolk as he thinks?
REIGNIER. Suffolk, what remedy?
REIGNIER. To whom?
REIGNIER. Upon thy princely warrant I descend
REIGNIER. Welcome, brave Earl, into our territories;
REIGNIER. Why ring not out the bells aloud throughout the
REIGNIER. Woman, do what thou canst to save our honours;
RICHARD PLANTAGENET, DUKE OF YORK
RICHARD PLANTAGENET, DUKE OF YORK
RICHARD, afterwards DUKE OF GLOUCESTER, his son
RICHARD. About that which concerns your Grace and us-
RICHARD. An oath is of no moment, being not took
RICHARD. And if words will not, then our weapons shall.
RICHARD. Arm'd as we are, let's stay within this house.
RICHARD. Ay, with five hundred, father, for a need.
RICHARD. Brother, though I be youngest, give me leave.
RICHARD. Fie! charity, for shame! Speak not in spite,
RICHARD. I'll prove the contrary, if you'll hear me speak.
RICHARD. If not in heaven, you'll surely sup in hell.
RICHARD. My noble father,
RICHARD. No; God forbid your Grace should be forsworn.
RICHARD. Oft have I seen a hot o'er weening cur
RICHARD. So, lie thou there;
RICHARD. Sound drums and trumpets, and the King will fly.
RICHARD. Speak thou for me, and tell them what I did.
RICHARD. Thus do I hope to shake King Henry's head.
RICHARD. You are old enough now, and yet methinks you lose.
RICHARD. Your right depends not on his life or death.
ROGER BOLINGBROKE, a conjurer
RUTLAND. Ah, whither shall I fly to scape their hands?
RUTLAND. But 'twas ere I was born.
RUTLAND. Di faciant laudis summa sit ista tuae!         [Dies]
RUTLAND. I never did thee harm; why wilt thou slay me?
RUTLAND. O, let me pray before I take my death!
RUTLAND. So looks the pent-up lion o'er the wretch
RUTLAND. Then let my father's blood open it again:
SALISBURY. But William of Hatfield died without an heir.
SALISBURY. Come, leave your drinking and fall to blows.
SALISBURY. Disturb him not, let him pass peaceably.
SALISBURY. I grieve to hear what torments you endur'd;
SALISBURY. I have.
SALISBURY. It is great sin to swear unto a sin;
SALISBURY. My lord, I have considered with myself
SALISBURY. My lord, I long to hear it at full.
SALISBURY. My lord, break we off; we know your mind at full.
SALISBURY. Now, by my sword, well hast thou fought to-day!
SALISBURY. Now, by the death of Him that died for all,
SALISBURY. O Lord, have mercy on us, wretched sinners!
SALISBURY. Peace, son! And show some reason, Buckingham,
SALISBURY. Peter? What more?
SALISBURY. Pride went before, ambition follows him.
SALISBURY. Talbot, my life, my joy, again return'd!
SALISBURY. Then let's make haste away and look unto the main.
SALISBURY. This Edmund, in the reign of Bolingbroke,
SALISBURY. Thump? Then see thou thump thy master well.
SALISBURY. Yet tell'st thou not how thou wert entertain'd.
SALISBURY. [To the Commons within] Sirs, stand apart, the King
SAUNDER SIMPCOX, an impostor
SAY. Ah, countrymen! if when you make your pray'rs,
SAY. Ay, but I hope your Highness shall have his.
SAY. Great men have reaching hands. Oft have I struck
SAY. Hear me but speak, and bear me where you will.
SAY. Long sitting to determine poor men's causes
SAY. Nothing but this: 'tis 'bona terra, mala gens.'
SAY. So might your Grace's person be in danger.
SAY. Tell me: wherein have I offended most?
SAY. The palsy, and not fear, provokes me.
SAY. The trust I have is in mine innocence,
SAY. These cheeks are pale for watching for your good.
SAY. What of that?
SAY. You men of Kent-
SCALES. How now! Is Jack Cade slain?
SCALES. Such aid as I can spare you shall command,
SCOUT. Success unto our valiant general,
SCOUT. The English army, that divided was
SECOND GENTLEMAN. And so will I, and write home for it straight.
SECOND MESSENGER. Jack Cade hath gotten London Bridge.
SECOND MURDERER. O that it were to do! What have we done?
SECOND NEIGHBOUR. And here, neighbour, here's a cup of charneco.
SECOND PETITIONER. Alas, sir, I am but a poor petitioner of our
SECOND PETITIONER. Come back, fool; this is the Duke of Suffolk and
SECOND PETITIONER. Marry, the Lord protect him, for he's a good
SECOND PRENTICE. Be merry, Peter, and fear not thy master: fight
SECOND SERVING-MAN. And so will I.
SECOND SERVING-MAN. Do what ye dare, we are as resolute.
SECOND WARDER.  [Within]  Whoe'er he be, you may not be
SERGEANT. Sirs, take your places and be vigilant.
SERVANT. O my dear lord, lo where your son is borne!
SERVING-MAN. So please your Grace, we'll take her from the sheriff.
SERVING-MAN. Ten, my lord.
SERVING-MEN. Open the gates unto the Lord Protector,
SHEPHERD. 'Tis true, I gave a noble to the priest
SHEPHERD. Ah, Joan, this kills thy father's heart outright!
SHEPHERD. Fie, Joan, that thou wilt be so obstacle!
SHEPHERD. Out, out! My lords, an please you, 'tis not so;
SHERIFF. An't please your Grace, here my commission stays;
SHERIFF. It is my office; and, madam, pardon me.
SIMPCOX. A fall off of a tree.
SIMPCOX. Alas, good master, my wife desir'd some damsons
SIMPCOX. Alas, master, I am not able to stand alone!
SIMPCOX. Alas, master, I know not.
SIMPCOX. Alas, master, what shall I do? I am not able to stand.
SIMPCOX. At Berwick in the north, an't like your Grace.
SIMPCOX. Ay, God Almighty help me!
SIMPCOX. Black, forsooth; coal-black as jet.
SIMPCOX. Born blind, an't please your Grace.
SIMPCOX. But that in all my life, when I was a youth.
SIMPCOX. God knows, of pure devotion; being call'd
SIMPCOX. I know not.
SIMPCOX. No, indeed, master.
SIMPCOX. O master, that you could!
SIMPCOX. O, born so, master!
SIMPCOX. Red, master; red as blood.
SIMPCOX. Saunder Simpcox, an if it please you, master.
SIMPCOX. Yes, master, clear as day, I thank God and Saint Alban.
SIR HUGH MORTIMER, uncle to the Duke of York
SIR HUMPHREY STAFFORD
SIR JOHN MORTIMER, uncle to the Duke of York
SIR JOHN SOMERVILLE                TUTOR, to Rutland
SIR JOHN STANLEY
SIR JOHN. She shall not need; we'll meet her in the field.
SIR WILLIAM STANLEY                SIR JOHN MONTGOMERY
SMITH. Has a book in his pocket with red letters in't.
SMITH. If this fellow be wise, he'll never call ye Jack Cade more;
SMITH. Sir, he made a chimney in my father's house, and the bricks
SMITH. The clerk of Chatham. He can write and read and cast
SMITH. We took him setting of boys' copies.
SMITH. [Aside] 'A must needs; for beggary is valiant.
SMITH. [Aside] But now of late, not able to travel with her furr'd
SMITH. [Aside] He need not fear the sword, for his coat is of
SMITH. [Aside] Nay, John, it will be stinking law; for his breath
SOLDIER. I'll be so bold to take what they have left.
SOLDIER. Jack Cade! Jack Cade!
SOMERSET.  [Aside]  Perish, base Prince, ignoble Duke of
SOMERSET. All health unto my gracious sovereign!
SOMERSET. And in the number, thee that wishest shame!
SOMERSET. And on my side it is so well apparell'd,
SOMERSET. And this is mine: sweet Henry, favour him.
SOMERSET. Away, away, good William de la Pole!
SOMERSET. Ay, thou shalt find us ready for thee still;
SOMERSET. By Him that made me, I'll maintain my words
SOMERSET. Come, go; I will dispatch the horsemen straight;
SOMERSET. Cousin of Buckingham, though Humphrey's pride
SOMERSET. Good Master Vernon, it is well objected;
SOMERSET. Hath not thy rose a thorn, Plantagenet?
SOMERSET. Have with thee, Pole. Farewell, ambitious
SOMERSET. Here in my scabbard, meditating that
SOMERSET. How now, Sir William! Whither were you sent?
SOMERSET. I humbly thank your royal Majesty.
SOMERSET. If Somerset be unworthy of the place,
SOMERSET. If York, with all his far-fet policy,
SOMERSET. If he be dead, brave Talbot, then, adieu!
SOMERSET. It is too late; I cannot send them now.
SOMERSET. Judge you, my Lord of Warwick, then, between us.
SOMERSET. Let him that is no coward nor no flatterer,
SOMERSET. Methinks my lord should be religious,
SOMERSET. My lord,
SOMERSET. My lord, it were your duty to forbear.
SOMERSET. No, Plantagenet,
SOMERSET. O monstrous traitor! I arrest thee, York,
SOMERSET. Prick not your finger as you pluck it off,
SOMERSET. Rear up his body; wring him by the nose.
SOMERSET. That all your interest in those territories
SOMERSET. The quarrel toucheth none but us alone;
SOMERSET. Thy sumptuous buildings and thy wife's attire
SOMERSET. Well, I'll find friends to wear my bleeding roses,
SOMERSET. Well, well, come on; who else?
SOMERSET. Yes, when his holy state is touch'd so near.
SOMERSET. York lies; he might have sent and had the horse.
SOMERSET. York set him on; York should have sent him aid.
SOMERSET. Your private grudge, my Lord of York, will out,
SPIRIT. Adsum.
SPIRIT. Ask what thou wilt; that I had said and done.
SPIRIT. By water shall he die and take his end.
SPIRIT. Let him shun castles:
SPIRIT. The Duke yet lives that Henry shall depose;
STAFFORD. And will you credit this base drudge's words
STAFFORD. Ay, sir.
STAFFORD. Herald, away; and throughout every town
STAFFORD. O gross and miserable ignorance!
STAFFORD. Rebellious hinds, the filth and scum of Kent,
STAFFORD. Villain, thy father was a plasterer;
STANLEY. Like to a duchess and Duke Humphrey's lady;
STANLEY. Madam, your penance done, throw off this sheet,
STANLEY. So am I given in charge, may't please your Grace.
STANLEY. Why, madam, that is to the Isle of Man,
SUFFOLK.  [Aside]  And yet a dispensation may be had.
SUFFOLK.  [Aside]  Fond man, remember that thou hast a
SUFFOLK.  [Aside]  How canst thou tell she will deny thy
SUFFOLK.  [Aside]  I'll win this Lady Margaret. For whom?
SUFFOLK.  [Aside]  It shall be so, disdain they ne'er so much.
SUFFOLK.  [Aside]  She's beautiful, and therefore to be woo'd;
SUFFOLK.  [Aside]  There all is marr'd; there lies a cooling
SUFFOLK.  [Aside]  Yet so my fancy may be satisfied,
SUFFOLK. 'Tis like the commons, rude unpolish'd hinds,
SUFFOLK. A charge, Lord York, that I will see perform'd.
SUFFOLK. A dow'r, my lords! Disgrace not so your king,
SUFFOLK. A dreadful oath, sworn with a solemn tongue!
SUFFOLK. A jewel, lock'd into the woefull'st cask
SUFFOLK. A plague upon them! Wherefore should I curse them?
SUFFOLK. Ah, York, no man alive so fain as I!
SUFFOLK. An earl I am, and Suffolk am I call'd.
SUFFOLK. And he of these that can do most of all
SUFFOLK. And here I will expect thy coming.
SUFFOLK. And so shall you,
SUFFOLK. And this withal.                         [Kisses her]
SUFFOLK. And yet, I think, jet did he never see.
SUFFOLK. As by your high imperial Majesty
SUFFOLK. As doth a ruler with unlawful oaths;
SUFFOLK. Away! be gone.                       Exeunt MURDERERS
SUFFOLK. Ay, but these rags are no part of the Duke:
SUFFOLK. Base slave, thy words are blunt, and so art thou.
SUFFOLK. Be what thou wilt, thou art my prisoner.
SUFFOLK. Because here is a man accus'd of treason:
SUFFOLK. Before we make election, give me leave
SUFFOLK. Blunt-witted lord, ignoble in demeanour,
SUFFOLK. But, in my mind, that were no policy:
SUFFOLK. Cease, gentle Queen, these execrations,
SUFFOLK. Come to the King, and tell him what miracle.
SUFFOLK. Come, soldiers, show what cruelty ye can,
SUFFOLK. Comfort, my sovereign! Gracious Henry, comfort!
SUFFOLK. Dead in his bed, my lord; Gloucester is dead.
SUFFOLK. Fair Margaret knows
SUFFOLK. Faith, I have been a truant in the law
SUFFOLK. Farewell, sweet madam. But hark you, Margaret
SUFFOLK. Gelidus timor occupat artus: it is thee I fear.
SUFFOLK. Go forward, and be chok'd with thy ambition!
SUFFOLK. Hath he not twit our sovereign lady here
SUFFOLK. He doth revive again; madam, be patient.
SUFFOLK. Here is my hand the deed is worthy doing.
SUFFOLK. His love.
SUFFOLK. How cam'st thou so?
SUFFOLK. How now, fellow! Wouldst anything with me?
SUFFOLK. I go.
SUFFOLK. I pluck this red rose with young Somerset,
SUFFOLK. I wear no knife to slaughter sleeping men;
SUFFOLK. I'll call him presently, my noble lord.          Exit
SUFFOLK. I'll see it truly done, my Lord of York.
SUFFOLK. I'll turn my part thereof into thy throat.
SUFFOLK. I'll undertake to make thee Henry's queen,
SUFFOLK. If I depart from thee I cannot live;
SUFFOLK. Lady, vouchsafe to listen what I say.
SUFFOLK. Lady, wherefore talk you so?
SUFFOLK. Look on my George, I am a gentleman:
SUFFOLK. Madam, 'tis true; and were't not madness then
SUFFOLK. Madam, be patient. As I was cause
SUFFOLK. Madam, myself have lim'd a bush for her,
SUFFOLK. My Lord Protector, so it please your Grace,
SUFFOLK. My lord, these faults are easy, quickly answer'd;
SUFFOLK. Nay, Gloucester, know that thou art come too soon,
SUFFOLK. No malice, sir; no more than well becomes
SUFFOLK. No marvel, an it like your Majesty,
SUFFOLK. No, gentle madam; I unworthy am
SUFFOLK. Not resolute, except so much were done,
SUFFOLK. Now, sirs, have you dispatch'd this thing?
SUFFOLK. O that I were a god, to shoot forth thunder
SUFFOLK. O, wert thou for myself! But, Suffolk, stay;
SUFFOLK. Obscure and lowly swain, King Henry's blood,
SUFFOLK. Peace, headstrong Warwick!
SUFFOLK. Please it your Majesty, this is the man
SUFFOLK. Poole?
SUFFOLK. Reignier of France, I give thee kingly thanks,
SUFFOLK. Resign it then, and leave thine insolence.
SUFFOLK. Say, gentle Princess, would you not suppose
SUFFOLK. Stay, Whitmore, for thy prisoner is a prince,
SUFFOLK. Suffolk's imperial tongue is stem and rough,
SUFFOLK. Sweet madam, give me hearing in a cause
SUFFOLK. Thanks, Reignier, happy for so sweet a child,
SUFFOLK. That is her ransom; I deliver her.
SUFFOLK. The trait'rous Warwick, with the men of Bury,
SUFFOLK. Then call our captains and our colours forth!
SUFFOLK. Thou dar'st not, for thy own.
SUFFOLK. Thou shalt be waking while I shed thy blood,
SUFFOLK. Thus Suffolk hath prevail'd; and thus he goes,
SUFFOLK. Thus droops this lofty pine and hangs his sprays;
SUFFOLK. Thus is poor Suffolk ten times banished,
SUFFOLK. Thy name affrights me, in whose sound is death.
SUFFOLK. Thy wife too! That's some wrong indeed. What's yours?
SUFFOLK. To me.
SUFFOLK. True; made the lame to leap and fly away.
SUFFOLK. Turn not thy scorns this way, Plantagenet.
SUFFOLK. Tush, my good lord! This superficial tale
SUFFOLK. Well hath your Highness seen into this duke;
SUFFOLK. What woman is this?
SUFFOLK. Who is there? [Enter servant] Take this fellow in, and
SUFFOLK. Why, Warwick, who should do the Duke to death?
SUFFOLK. Why, as you, my lord,
SUFFOLK. Why, our authority is his consent,
SUFFOLK. Why, that's well said. Go, get you to my house;
SUFFOLK. Within the Temple Hall we were too loud;
SUFFOLK. Words sweetly plac'd and modestly directed.
SUFFOLK. Yes, my lord, her father is a king,
SUFFOLK. Yes, there is remedy enough, my lord.
SUFFOLK. You bade me ban, and will you bid me leave?
Soldiers, Attendants, Messengers, Watchmen, etc.
TALBOT. A maid, they say.
TALBOT. And here will Talbot mount or make his grave.
TALBOT. And leave my followers here to fight and die?
TALBOT. And there will we be too, ere it be long,
TALBOT. Be not dismay'd, fair lady; nor misconster
TALBOT. Bring forth the body of old Salisbury
TALBOT. But ere we go, regard this dying prince,
TALBOT. But yet, before we go, let's not forget
TALBOT. Content, my liege! Yes; but that I am prevented,
TALBOT. Dare ye come forth and meet us in the field?
TALBOT. Fly to revenge my death, if I be slain.
TALBOT. For aught I see, this city must be famish'd,
TALBOT. Foul fiend of France and hag of all despite,
TALBOT. France, thou shalt rue this treason with thy tears,
TALBOT. Go to the gates of Bordeaux, trumpeter;
TALBOT. Ha, ha, ha!
TALBOT. He fables not; I hear the enemy.
TALBOT. Hear, hear how dying Salisbury doth groan.
TALBOT. Heavens, can you suffer hell so to prevail?
TALBOT. Here is the Talbot; who would speak with him?
TALBOT. I am indeed.
TALBOT. I go, my lord, in heart desiring still
TALBOT. I laugh to see your ladyship so fond
TALBOT. I speak not to that railing Hecate,
TALBOT. If we both stay, we both are sure to die.
TALBOT. Lord Regent, and redoubted Burgundy,
TALBOT. Lost and recovered in a day again!
TALBOT. Madam, I have been bold to trouble you;
TALBOT. Marry, for that she's in a wrong belief,
TALBOT. My gracious Prince, and honourable peers,
TALBOT. My thoughts are whirled like a potter's wheel;
TALBOT. Ne'er trust me then; for when a world of men
TALBOT. No, no, I am but shadow of myself.
TALBOT. Not all together; better far, I guess,
TALBOT. O young John Talbot! I did send for thee
TALBOT. Part of thy father may be sav'd in thee.
TALBOT. Prisoner! To whom?
TALBOT. Saint George and victory! Fight, soldiers, fight.
TALBOT. Shall all thy mother's hopes lie in one tomb?
TALBOT. Shame to the Duke of Burgundy and thee!
TALBOT. Signior, hang! Base muleteers of France!
TALBOT. Thanks, gentle Duke. But where is Pucelle now?
TALBOT. That will I show you presently.
TALBOT. The Earl of Bedford had a prisoner
TALBOT. Then follow thou thy desp'rate sire of Crete,
TALBOT. Then here I take my leave of thee, fair son,
TALBOT. Thou antic Death, which laugh'st us here to scorn,
TALBOT. Thou never hadst renown, nor canst not lose it.
TALBOT. Thy father's charge shall clear thee from that stain.
TALBOT. Undaunted spirit in a dying breast!
TALBOT. Upon my blessing I command thee go.
TALBOT. Well then, alone, since there's no remedy,
TALBOT. Well, let them practise and converse with spirits:
TALBOT. What chance is this that suddenly hath cross'd us?
TALBOT. When first this order was ordain'd, my lords,
TALBOT. When from the Dauphin's crest thy sword struck
TALBOT. Where is my other life? Mine own is gone.
TALBOT. Where is my strength, my valour, and my force?
TALBOT. With scoffs, and scorns, and contumelious taunts,
THIRD NEIGHBOUR. And here's a pot of good double beer, neighbour;
THIRD SERVING-MAN. And I will see what physic the tavern
THIRD SERVING-MAN. My lord, we know your Grace to be a
THOMAS HORNER, an armourer
TOWNSMAN. A miracle! A miracle!
TOWNSMAN. Forsooth, a blind man at Saint Albans shrine
TUTOR. Ah, Clifford, murder not this innocent child,
TUTOR. And I, my lord, will bear him company.
TWO GENTLEMEN, prisoners with Suffolk
TWO MURDERERS
VAUX
VAUX. To signify unto his Majesty
VERNON. And that is my petition, noble lord;
VERNON. Grant me the combat, gracious sovereign.
VERNON. Hark ye: not so. In witness, take ye that.
VERNON. If I, my lord, for my opinion bleed,
VERNON. In your behalf still will I wear the same.
VERNON. Nay, let it rest where it began at first.
VERNON. Now, sir, to you, that were so hot at sea,
VERNON. Sirrah, thy lord I honour as he is.
VERNON. Stay, lords and gentlemen, and pluck no more
VERNON. Then, for the truth and plainness of the case,
VERNON. Well, miscreant, I'll be there as soon as you;
VERNON. With him, my lord; for he hath done me wrong.
WARWICK is hoarse with calling thee to arms.
WARWICK. A married man! That's most intolerable.
WARWICK. Accept this scroll, most gracious sovereign;
WARWICK. After them? Nay, before them, if we can.
WARWICK. An uproar, I dare warrant,
WARWICK. And I'll keep London with my soldiers.
WARWICK. And Warwick shall disprove it. You forget
WARWICK. And hark ye, sirs; because she is a maid,
WARWICK. And so do I. Victorious Prince of York,
WARWICK. And when the King comes, offer him no violence.
WARWICK. As surely as my soul intends to live
WARWICK. Away even now, or I will drag thee hence.
WARWICK. Ay, see the bishop be not overborne.
WARWICK. Be Duke of Lancaster; let him be King.
WARWICK. Be patient, York. If we conclude a peace,
WARWICK. Beaufort, it is thy sovereign speaks to thee.
WARWICK. Behold, my Lord of Winchester, the Duke
WARWICK. Between two hawks, which flies the higher pitch;
WARWICK. But both of you were vow'd Duke Humphrey's foes;
WARWICK. But that the guilt of murder bucklers thee,
WARWICK. Clifford of Cumberland, 'tis Warwick calls;
WARWICK. Come hither, gracious sovereign, view this body.
WARWICK. Depos'd he shall be, in despite of all.
WARWICK. Do right unto this princely Duke of York;
WARWICK. Exeter, thou art a traitor to the crown
WARWICK. Father, the Duke hath told the truth;
WARWICK. For grief that they are past recovery;
WARWICK. Graceless, wilt thou deny thy parentage?
WARWICK. How say'st thou, Charles? Shall our condition
WARWICK. I love no colours; and, without all colour
WARWICK. I wonder how the King escap'd our hands.
WARWICK. Image of pride, why should I hold my peace?
WARWICK. It is reported, mighty sovereign,
WARWICK. It's sign she hath been liberal and free.
WARWICK. Let Richard be restored to his blood;
WARWICK. Long live King Henry! Plantagenet, embrace him.
WARWICK. Madam, be still- with reverence may I say;
WARWICK. Methinks his lordship should be humbler;
WARWICK. My Lord of York, I promise you, the King
WARWICK. My heart assures me that the Earl of Warwick
WARWICK. Neither the King, nor he that loves him best,
WARWICK. Now, by God's will, thou wrong'st him, Somerset;
WARWICK. Now, by my father's badge, old Nevil's crest,
WARWICK. Of one or both of us the time is come.
WARWICK. Plantagenet shall speak first. Hear him, lords;
WARWICK. Poor Clifford, how I scorn his worthless threats!
WARWICK. Prove it, Henry, and thou shalt be King.
WARWICK. Roam thither then.
WARWICK. See how the blood is settled in his face.
WARWICK. See how the pangs of death do make him grin
WARWICK. So God help Warwick, as he loves the land
WARWICK. So bad a death argues a monstrous life.
WARWICK. State holy or unhallow'd, what of that?
WARWICK. Suppose, my lords, he did it unconstrain'd,
WARWICK. Sweet King! The Bishop hath a kindly gird.
WARWICK. Sweet York, begin; and if thy claim be good,
WARWICK. Talk not of France, sith thou hast lost it all.
WARWICK. That can I witness; and a fouler fact
WARWICK. That shall I do, my liege. Stay, Salisbury,
WARWICK. The Cardinal's not my better in the field.
WARWICK. The bloody parliament shall this be call'd,
WARWICK. The greatest miracle that e'er ye wrought:
WARWICK. Then, nobly, York; 'tis for a crown thou fight'st.
WARWICK. This blot that they object against your house
WARWICK. True, Clifford; and that's Richard Duke of York.
WARWICK. Turn this way, Henry, and regard them not.
WARWICK. Tush, that was but his fancy; blame him not;
WARWICK. Unto the main! O father, Maine is lost-
WARWICK. Warwick may live to be the best of all.
WARWICK. Well, go to; we'll have no bastards live;
WARWICK. What dares not Warwick, if false Suffolk dare him?
WARWICK. What good is this to England and himself!
WARWICK. What plain proceedings is more plain than this?
WARWICK. Whether your Grace be worthy, yea or no,
WARWICK. Who finds the heifer dead and bleeding fresh,
WARWICK. Why should you sigh, my lord?
WARWICK. Yield, my Lord Protector; yield, Winchester;
WARWICK. You were best to go to bed and dream again
WATCH.  [Within]  Qui est la?
WATCH. Enter, go in; the market-bell is rung.
WESTMORELAND. Base, fearful, and despairing Henry!
WESTMORELAND. Farewell, faint-hearted and degenerate king,
WESTMORELAND. He is both King and Duke of Lancaster;
WESTMORELAND. I cannot stay to hear these articles.
WESTMORELAND. Plantagenet, of thee, and these thy sons,
WESTMORELAND. What, shall we suffer this? Let's pluck him down;
WHITMORE. And so am I: my name is Walter Whitmore.
WHITMORE. Come, Suffolk, I must waft thee to thy death.
WHITMORE. Gualtier or Walter, which it is I care not:
WHITMORE. I lost mine eye in laying the prize aboard,
WHITMORE. Speak, Captain, shall I stab the forlorn swain?
WHITMORE. The Duke of Suffolk muffled up in rags?
WHITMORE. There let his head and lifeless body lie,
WHITMORE. Thou shalt have cause to fear before I leave thee.
WIFE to SIMPCOX
WIFE. A plum tree, master.
WIFE. Alas, sir, we did it for pure need!
WIFE. Ay indeed was he.
WIFE. His wife, an't like your worship.
WIFE. Most true, forsooth; and many time and oft
WIFE. Never before this day in all his life.
WIFE. Too true; and bought his climbing very dear.
WILLIAM STAFFORD, his brother
WILLIAM STAFFORD. And what of that?
WILLIAM STAFFORD. But angry, wrathful, and inclin'd to blood,
WILLIAM STAFFORD. Jack Cade, the Duke of York hath taught you this.
WILLIAM STAFFORD. That's false.
WILLIAM STAFFORD. Well, seeing gentle words will not prevail,
WINCHESTER  [Aside]  So help me God, as I intend it not!
WINCHESTER.  [Aside]  Now Winchester will not submit, I
WINCHESTER. Abominable Gloucester, guard thy head,
WINCHESTER. And am not I a prelate of the church?
WINCHESTER. As will the rest, so willeth Winchester.
WINCHESTER. Ay, lordly sir; for what are you, I pray,
WINCHESTER. Com'st thou with deep premeditated lines,
WINCHESTER. Do what thou dar'st; I beard thee to thy face.
WINCHESTER. Gloucester, I do defy thee. Lords, vouchsafe
WINCHESTER. Gloucester, thou wilt answer this before the
WINCHESTER. Gloucester, we'll meet to thy cost, be sure;
WINCHESTER. God save King Henry, of that name the Sixth!
WINCHESTER. He shall submit, or I will never yield.
WINCHESTER. Here's Gloucester, a foe to citizens;
WINCHESTER. How now, ambitious Humphry! What means
WINCHESTER. I do, thou most usurping proditor,
WINCHESTER. Nay, stand thou back; I will not budge a foot.
WINCHESTER. Rome shall remedy this.
WINCHESTER. Stay, my Lord Legate; you shall first receive
WINCHESTER. Unreverent Gloucester!
WINCHESTER. Well, Duke of Gloucester, I will yield to thee;
WOODVILLE.  [Within]  Have patience, noble Duke, I may
WOODVILLE.  [Within]  What noise is this? What traitors
YORK. 'Tis York that hath more reason for his death.
YORK. 'Tis thought, my lord, that you took bribes of France
YORK. 'Twas by rebellion against his king.
YORK. 'Twas my inheritance, as the earldom was.
YORK. A dreadful lay! Address thee instantly.
YORK. A plague upon that villain Somerset
YORK. About what?
YORK. Alas, what joy shall noble Talbot have
YORK. Alencon, that notorious Machiavel!
YORK. An if I wist he did-but let it rest;
YORK. And I. And now we three have spoke it,
YORK. And did he not, in his protectorship,
YORK. And so he did; but yet I like it not,
YORK. And so says York- [Aside] for he hath greatest cause.
YORK. And yet, forsooth, she is a virgin pure.
YORK. And, Nevil, this I do assure myself,
YORK. Anjou and Maine are given to the French;
YORK. Are not the speedy scouts return'd again
YORK. Assist me then, sweet Warwick, and I will;
YORK. At your pleasure, my good lord.
YORK. Ay, ay. Away with her to execution!
YORK. Ay, with my sword. What! think'st thou that we fear them?
YORK. Base dunghill villain and mechanical,
YORK. Break thou in pieces and consume to ashes,
YORK. Bring forth that sorceress, condemn'd to burn.
YORK. Call Buckingham, and all the friends thou hast,
YORK. Confirm the crown to me and to mine heirs,
YORK. Curse, miscreant, when thou comest to the stake.
YORK. Damsel of France, I think I have you fast.
YORK. Dispatch- this knave's tongue begins to double.
YORK. Doth any one accuse York for a traitor?
YORK. Farewell, my gracious lord; I'll to my castle.
YORK. Fell banning hag; enchantress, hold thy tongue.
YORK. Five men to twenty! Though the odds be great,
YORK. For Suffolk's duke, may he be suffocate,
YORK. From Ireland thus comes York to claim his right
YORK. He dies; we lose; I break my warlike word.
YORK. He rose against him, being his sovereign,
YORK. Henry of Lancaster, resign thy crown.
YORK. His eldest sister, Anne,
YORK. Hold, Warwick, seek thee out some other chase,
YORK. How now! Is Somerset at liberty?
YORK. Humphrey of Buckingham, I accept thy greeting.
YORK. I am content; provide me soldiers, lords,
YORK. I am thine.
YORK. I know our safety is to follow them;
YORK. I never saw a fellow worse bested,
YORK. I shall be, if I claim by open war.
YORK. I thank thee, Clifford. Say