







Exeunt
[Reads]
Exit JAQUES
Exit LE BEAU
Exit SILVIUS
Exeunt citizens
Exeunt pillagers
Exeunt severally
[ROSALIND swoons]
[Whispers CHARMIAN]
Exeunt DUKE and LORDS
[Sets down the basket]
Exeunt ORLANDO and ADAM
but SICINIUS and BRUTUS]
Exeunt ROSALIND and CELIA
Exeunt ROSALIND and CELIA
Exeunt the three citizens
Exit IRAS. A noise within
[CHARLES is thrown. Shout]
Exeunt CORIN and TOUCHSTONE
[DUKE FREDERICK goes apart]
Exeunt PROCULEIUS and soldiers
[BRUTUS and SICINIUS go aside]
Exeunt DUKE, train, and LE BEAU
[Alarum continues still afar off]
[Applying another asp to her arm]
with MENENIUS
[Kisses them. IRAS falls and dies]
[The rest shall hear this burden:]
[Within: 'Make way there-Caesar!']
[Flourish. Cornets. Then exeunt all
breathless
Enter two PAGES
Re-enter CORIOLANUS
[They fight, and all enter the city]
EPILOGUE.
Enter A MESSENGER
Enter LE BEAU
Enter MARCIUS
Enter OLIVER
Exeunt JAQUES, TOUCHSTONE, and AUDREY
Flourish. Exeunt CAESAR and his train
[Flourish. Trumpets sound, and drums]
Enter CHARLES
Enter CORIN
Enter DENNIS
and soldiers
them to the gates
CORIOLANUS stands
Enter A MESSENGER
Enter CORIN
Enter JAQUES
Enter OLIVER
Enter TOUCHSTONE
Enter WILLIAM
SCENE II.
SONG
Enter CORIN and SILVIUS
Enter ORLANDO
Enter ROSALIND
Enter a GENTLEWOMAN
ACT V. SCENE I.
Enter MENENIUS AGRIPPA
Enter SIR OLIVER MARTEXT
Re-enter three of the citizens
SONG
SONG
SONG
[CORIOLANUS rises, and offers to go away]
Enter CAIUS MARCIUS
Enter CELIA, with a writing
Enter CHARMIAN
Enter DOLABELLA
Enter SILVIUS
Re-enter DOLABELLA
Re-enter DOLABELLA
Re-enter LE BEAU
Re-enter MARCIUS, cursing
Re-enter TITUS LARTIUS
Re-enter two other citizens
SONG.
[Within: 'A way there, a way for Caesar!']
on the walls of Corioli
CHARLES, and ATTENDANTS
Enter CORIN and TOUCHSTONE
Enter SILVIUS and PHEBE
Enter a GUARDSMAN
Enter a MESSENGER, hastily
and others of his train
Enter DUKE FREDERICK, with LORDS
Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY
Enter an EGYPTIAN
SONG.
[MARCIUS enters the gates]
[To an asp, which she applies to her breast]
CAPTAINS and soldiers and a HERALD
Enter ORLANDO and JAQUES
Enter the army of the Volsces
Exeunt; those above hearing off ANTONY'S body
Alexandria. CAESAR'S camp
Enter ROSALIND, reading a paper
Enter the guard, rushing in
JUNIUS BRUTUS and SICINIUS VELUTUS
Re-enter ORLANDO with ADAM
Enter JAQUES de BOYS
Wind away,
[Flourish. Cornets. Exeunt in state, as before]
Alexandria. The monument
Atone together.
BRUTUS and SICINIUS come forward
Enter CORIOLANUS, in a gown of humility,
He that sweetest rose will find
If a hart do lack a hind,
If the cat will after kind,
Let him seek out Rosalinde.
Must find love's prick and Rosalinde.
So be sure will Rosalinde.
So must slender Rosalinde.
Such a nut is Rosalinde.
Sweetest nut hath sourest rind,
Then to cart with Rosalinde.
They that reap must sheaf and bind,
Winter garments must be lin'd,
Yea, brought her hither,
unbar and open the gates
And turn his merry note
BRUTUS take their places by themselves.
Begone, I say,
Enter ROSALIND, SILVIUS, and PHEBE
Enter VOLUMNIA, VIRGILIA, and VALERIA
Here shall he see
No enemy
O brave Oliver,
O sweet Oliver,
Unto the sweet bird's throat,
Who loves to lie with me,
All the pictures fairest lin'd
Although thy breath be rude.
Are but black to Rosalinde.
As benefits forgot;
As friend rememb'red not.
As man's ingratitude;
But the fair of Rosalinde.'
GENERAL, and TITUS LARTIUS; between them,
Good Duke, receive thy daughter;
Her worth, being mounted on the wind,
High wedlock then be honoured.
Hymen from heaven brought her,
If truth holds true contents.
Let no face be kept in mind
No jewel is like Rosalinde.
O blessed bond of board and bed!
Of these most strange events.
Re-enter CAESAR and all his train
That thou mightst join her hand with his,
This life is most jolly.
Through all the world bears Rosalinde.
When earthly things made even
Whose heart within his bosom is.
[All together here]
'Twixt the souls of friend and friend;
A stubborn will to please,
An if he will come to me.
Buckles in his sum of age;
But winter and rough weather.
By heavenly synod was devis'd,
Cleopatra's majesty,
Come hither, come hither, come hither.
Enter DERCETAS With the sword of ANTONY
Enter ORLANDO with his sword drawn
For it is unpeopled? No;
Gross fools as he,
Heaven would in little show.
Here shall he see
If it do come to pass
Leaving his wealth and ease
Nature presently distill'd
Or at every sentence end,
Re-enter IRAS, with a robe, crown, &c.
Runs his erring pilgrimage,
Sad Lucretia's modesty.
Teaching all that read to know
That any man turn ass,
That one body should be fill'd
That shall civil sayings show.
To have the touches dearest priz'd.
Warr'st thou with a woman's heart?'
'Art thou god to shepherd turn'd,
'If the scorn of your bright eyne
'Tis Hymen peoples every town;
'Tis I must make conclusion
'Whiles the eye of man did woo me,
A sennet. Trumpets sound. Enter COMINIUS the
Alack, in me what strange effect
And by him seal up thy mind,
And then I'll study how to die.'
As the winter to foul weather.
Because thou art not seen,
Blow, blow, thou winter wind,
Feed yourselves with questioning,
Freeze, freeze, thou bitter sky,
Have power to raise such love in mine,
He that brings this love to the
Here's eight that must take hands
Honour, high honour, and renown,
How then might your prayers move!
How thus we met, and these things finish.
Little knows this love in me;
MENENIUS, COMINIUS the Consul. SICINIUS and
Of me and all that I can make;
Or else by him my love deny,
Or have a woman to your lord;
That a maiden's heart hath burn'd?'
That could do no vengeance to me.'
That dost not bite so nigh
That reason wonder may diminish,
Then, heigh-ho, the holly!
Thou art not so unkind
Though thou the waters warp,
Thy sting is not so sharp
Thy tooth is not so keen,
To Hymen, god of every town!
To join in Hymen's bands,
Wedding is great Juno's crown;
Whether that thy youth and kind
Whiles a wedlock-hymn we sing,
Whiles you chid me, I did love;
Will the faithful offer take
Would they work in mild aspect!
You and you are heart in heart;
You and you are sure together,
You and you no cross shall part;
You to his love must accord,
A long flourish. They all cry 'Marcius, Marcius!'
And I to live and die her slave.'
And loves to live i' th' sun,
And pleas'd with what he gets,
And thy father bore it.
Atalanta's better part,
But upon the fairest boughs,
But winter and rough weather.
CORIOLANUS, crown'd with an oaken garland; with
Ducdame, ducdame, ducdame;
Flourish. Enter DUKE FREDERICK, LORDS, ORLANDO,
Heaven would that she these gifts should have,
Helen's cheek, but not her heart,
Here shall he see
I will not to wedding with thee.
Leave me not behind thee.
No enemy
Of many faces, eyes, and hearts,
Seeking the food he eats,
Some, how brief the life of man
Some, of violated vows
That the streching of a span
The quintessence of every sprite
Then sing him home.
Therefore heaven Nature charg'd
Thus Rosalinde of many parts
Thy father's father wore it;
Tongues I'll hang on every tree
Who doth ambition shun,
Will I Rosalinda write,
With all graces wide-enlarg'd.
Alarum. The Romans are beat back to their trenches.
Enter HYMEN, ROSALIND, and CELIA. Still MUSIC
Enter MARCIUS and TITUS LARTIUS With a trumpeter
Enter ROSALIND, CELIA, and CORIN, at a distance
In the spring time, &c.
In the spring time, &c.
In the spring time, &c.
In the spring time, the only pretty ring time,
PROCULEIUS, and others, his Council of War
Re-enter GUARDSMAN and CLOWN, with a basket
Re-enter MARCIUS, bleeding, assaulted by the enemy
They sound a parley. Enter two SENATORS with others,
With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino,
With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino,
With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino,
With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino,
A sennet. Enter the PATRICIANS and the TRIBUNES
Another alarum. The Volsces fly, and MARCIUS follows
Ciitzens steal away. Exeunt all but SICINIUS and BRUTUS
Come hither, come hither, come hither.
Enter COMINIUS, TITUS LARTIUS, with other SENATORS;
Enter TITUS LARTIUS, with his power, from the pursuit
OF THE PEOPLE, LICTORS before them; CORIOLANUS,
Re-enter GENTLEWOMAN, With VALERIA and an usher
And therefore take the present time,
Between the acres of the rye,
Enter JAQUES and LORDS, in the habit of foresters
For love is crowned with the prime,
How that a life was but a flower,
It was a lover and his lass,
Sweet lovers love the spring.
That o'er the green corn-field did pass
These pretty country folks would lie,
This carol they began that hour,
When birds do sing, hey ding a ding, ding.
of AUFIDIUS. MARCIUS fights till they be driven in
Enter CAESAR; GALLUS, PROCULEIUS, MAECENAS, SELEUCUS,
Enter, to the gates of the monument, PROCULEIUS, GALLUS,
Here they fight, and certain Volsces come in the aid
and come behind CLEOPATRA. Some of the guard
monument by a ladder placed against a window,
swords, take him up in their arms and cast up their caps]
Enter CAESAR, AGRIPPA, DOLABELLA, MAECENAS, GALLUS,
Enter CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, IRAS, and MARDIAN
Here PROCULEIUS and two of the guard ascend the
His leather skin and horns to wear.
Is not a thing to laugh to scorn.                   Exeunt
It was a crest ere thou wast born.
Take thou no scorn to wear the horn;
The horn, the horn, the lusty horn,
What shall he have that kill'd the deer?
mother,
noise, and behind him he leaves tears;
courtier, he swears.
''Tis right'; quoth he 'thus misery doth part
'Call me not fool till heaven hath sent me fortune.'
'Come on, you cowards! You were got in fear,
'Good morrow, fool,' quoth I; 'No, sir,' quoth he,
'I pray, sir'- Plague upon't! I cannot bring
'Poor deer,' quoth he 'thou mak'st a testament
'Sweep on, you fat and greasy citizens;
'That I receive the general food at first
'This is no flattery; these are counsellors
'Tis at the tuft of olives here hard by.
'Tis but a peevish boy; yet he talks well.
'Tis but an hour ago since it was nine;
'Tis for the followers fortune widens them,
'Tis just the fashion. Wherefore do you look
'Tis not her glass, but you, that flatters her;
'Tis not your inky brows, your black silk hair,
'Tis pretty, sure, and very probable,
'Tis south the city mills- bring me word thither
'Tis sworn between us we shall ever strike
'True is it, my incorporate friends,' quoth he
'Twere a perpetual spoil; and till we call'd
'Who ever lov'd that lov'd not at first sight?'
'a turns back for very fear.
'twas, he did so set his teeth and tear it. O, I warrant, how he
-Luce, thou hast answer'd him well.
A benefit in this change; but if you seek
A better life. 'Tis paltry to be Caesar:
A boar spear in my hand; and- in my heart
A bribe to pay my sword. I do refuse it,
A carbuncle entire, as big as thou art,
A conqueror that will pray in aid for kindness
A curse begin at very root on's heart
A doctrine of obedience, and would gladly
A freestone-colour'd hand; I verily did think
A gallant curtle-axe upon my thigh,
A greater crack. The round world
A green and gilded snake had wreath'd itself,
A kinder value of the people than
A land itself at large, a potent dukedom.
A lass unparallel'd. Downy windows, close;
A lioness, with udders all drawn dry,
A little of that worthy work perform'd
A little riper and more lusty red
A minister of her will; and it is great
A moiety of the world.
A motley fool. A miserable world!
A pair so famous. High events as these
A place below the first; for what miscarries
A pretty tale. It may be you have heard it;
A scatt'red smile, and that I'll live upon.
A sheep-cote fenc'd about with olive trees?
A shield as hard as his. A certain number,
A shower and thunder with their caps and shouts.
A sick man's appetite, who desires most that
A style for challengers. Why, she defies me,
A sun and moon, which kept their course and lighted
A sure destruction.
A thievish living on the common road?
A vessel under sail, so men obey'd
A worthy fool! Motley's the only wear.
A wretched ragged man, o'ergrown with hair,
Abhor it, fear it, do not enter it.
Able to bear against the great Aufidius
Abruptly, as my passion now makes me,
According to the measure of their states.
Addition of his envy! Say, good Caesar,
Address'd a mighty power; which were on foot,
Adieu, good Queen; I must attend on Caesar.
Afflict me with thy mocks, pity me not;
After a voyage, he hath strange places cramm'd
After my flight. Now go we in content
After some question with him, was converted
After the shepherd that complain'd of love,
Against the Roman state; whose course will on
Against the hospitable canon, would I
Against the wind a mile! You souls of geese
Ah, soldier!                                 [CHARMIAN dies]
Ah, women, women! Come; we have no friend
Aliena, I cannot be out of the sight of Orlando. I'll go find a
All adoration, duty, and observance,
All humbleness, all patience, and impatience,
All hurt behind! Backs red, and faces pale
All made of passion, and all made of wishes;
All purity, all trial, all obedience;
All this I give you. Let me be your servant;
Almost to bursting; and the big round tears
Alone I fought in your Corioli walls,
Am not I your Rosalind?
Amongst your cloven army.
An Antony were nature's piece 'gainst fancy,
An hour by his dial. O noble fool!
An o'erpress'd Roman and i' th' consul's view
An overture for th' wars. No more, I say.
And I am constant. Titus Lartius, thou
And I could laugh; I am light and heavy. Welcome!
And I did laugh sans intermission
And I in such a poverty of grace,
And Titus Lartius, a most valiant Roman,
And a petition granted them- a strange one,
And after one hour more 'twill be eleven;
And after, every of this happy number,
And all th' embossed sores and headed evils
And all the men and women merely players;
And all the world was of my father's mind;
And all their lands restor'd to them again
And as mine eye doth his effigies witness
And balms applied to you, yet dare I never
And be not proud; though all the world could see,
And bear her women from the monument.
And bids thee study on what fair demands
And bring thy news so late?
And browner than her brother.' Are not you
And buy it with your gold right suddenly.             Exeunt
And by his rare example made the coward
And call him noble that was now your hate,
And carry with us ears and eyes for th' time,
And churlish chiding of the winter's wind,
And citizens to their dens. The death of Antony
And cried, in fainting, upon Rosalind.
And curse that justice did it. Who deserves greatness
And do not seek to take your charge upon you,
And do not shear the fleeces that I graze.
And does the meanest chares. It were for me
And ere we have thy youthful wages spent
And faints for succour.
And fall into our rustic revelry.
And feebling such as stand not in their liking
And fell below his stem. His sword, death's stamp,
And follow Marcius.           [They all shout and wave their
And forc'd to drink their vapour.
And found it was his brother, his elder brother.
And four shall quickly draw out my command,
And gave him graceful posture.
And get our jewels and our wealth together;
And get you from our court.
And give it food. There is an old poor man
And given to Lartius and to Marcius battle;
And golden Phoebus never be beheld
And hang me up in chains!
And hark, what noise the general makes! To him!
And hath been tutor'd in the rudiments
And have with holy bell been knoll'd to church,
And having that do choke their service up
And he did render him the most unnatural
And he hath bought the cottage and the bounds
And he hath sent for thee. For the Queen,
And he shall feel mine edge.
And here detain'd by her usurping uncle,
And here much Orlando!
And hews down oaks with rushes. Hang ye! Trust ye?
And high top bald with dry antiquity,
And how you find her.
And if mine eyes can wound, now let them kill thee.
And in my voice most welcome shall you be.
And in the brunt of seventeen battles since
And in the greatness of my word, you die.
And in their barks my thoughts I'll character,
And keep their teeth clean. So, here comes a brace.
And know how we proceed.
And know some nurture. But forbear, I say;
And know what 'tis to pity and be pitied,
And leave me but the bran.' What say you to' t?
And let him feed.
And let me all your fortunes understand.              Exeunt
And let me use my sword, I'd make a quarry
And let my officers of such a nature
And let not search and inquisition quail
And little recks to find the way to heaven
And look'd upon things precious as they were
And made what work I pleas'd. 'Tis not my blood
And make bold power look pale- they threw their caps
And make death proud to take us. Come, away;
And make my wars on you. Look to't. Come on;
And mark what object did present itself.
And mothers that lack sons.
And nature, stronger than his just occasion,
And never stays to greet him. 'Ay,' quoth Jaques
And never stir assailants.
And no way from yourselves. What do you think,
And on the sudden dropp'd.
And one man in his time plays many parts,
And only hitherward. I leave your honours.
And out of you she sees herself more proper
And pity her for her good father's sake;
And play the swaggerer. Bear this, bear all.
And rail'd on Lady Fortune in good terms,
And sat at good men's feasts, and wip'd our eyes
And says, if ladies be but young and fair,
And she believes, wherever they are gone,
And shining morning face, creeping like snail
And show me to the shouting varletry
And so am I for Phebe.
And so am I for Phebe.
And so am I for Phebe.
And so he plays his part. The sixth age shifts
And so, from hour to hour, we ripe and ripe,
And stand upon my common part with those
And struck him on his knee. In that day's feats,
And take upon command what help we have
And tapers burn'd to bedward.
And tent themselves with death. Of all the horses-
And thank heaven, fasting, for a good man's love;
And that his country's dearer than himself;
And that you not delay the present, but,
And the buildings of my fancy; only
And the desire of the nobles.
And the gods doom him after!
And the red glow of scorn and proud disdain,
And then I came away.
And then he drew a dial from his poke,
And then to Rome. Come, Dolabella, see
And then, from hour to hour, we rot and rot;
And there is nothing left remarkable
And thereby hangs a tale.' When I did hear
And therefore look you call me Ganymede.
And therefore put I on the countenance
And therefore sit you down in gentleness,
And they that are most galled with my folly,
And this our life, exempt from public haunt,
And thou shalt bear it; wilt thou, Silvius?
And thou shalt have to pay for it of us.
And thou wilt show more bright and seem more virtuous
And thou, thrice-crowned Queen of Night, survey
And thrown into neglect the pompous court.
And to that youth he calls his Rosalind
And to the battle came he; where he did
And to the skirts of this wild wood he came,
And tread upon his neck.
And turn'd into the extremity of love.
And unregarded age in corners thrown.
And we are for the dark.
And we will nothing waste till you return.
And were I anything but what I am,
And when it bows stand'st up. Thou art left, Marcius;
And when my face is fair you shall perceive
And when thou hast done this chare, I'll give thee leave
And wherefore are you gentle, strong, and valiant?
And wheresoe'er we went, like Juno's swans,
And whistles in his sound. Last scene of all,
And willingly could waste my time in it.
And wish, for her sake more than for mine own,
And with a kind of umber smirch my face;
And with a sudden re-enforcement struck
And with indented glides did slip away
And with your speediest bring us what she says,
And wouldst do so, I think, should we encounter
And wrath o'erwhelm'd my pity. I request you
And y'are welcome all.
And yet it irks me the poor dappled fools,
And yet it is not that I bear thee love;
And you the mutinous members; for, examine
And you within it. If he fail of that,
And, after some small space, being strong at heart,
And, gladly quak'd, hear more; where the dull tribunes,
And, in that kind, swears you do more usurp
And, looking on it with lack-lustre eye,
And, mutually participate, did minister
And, now I am rememb'red, scorn'd at me.
And, on my life, his malice 'gainst the lady
And, should we shift estates, yours would be mine.
And, through the cranks and offices of man,
Antony call. I see him rouse himself
Antony's course, you shall bereave yourself
Appear i' th' market-place, nor on him put
Appear in your impediment. For the dearth,
Appear thus to us?
April when they woo, December when they wed: maids are May when
Are all thrown down; and that which here stands up
Are bringing forth our youth. We'll break our walls
Are dearer than the natural bond of sisters.
Are level now with men. The odds is gone,
Are mere usurpers, tyrants, and what's worse,
Are now on sale; and at our sheepcote now,
Are of consent and sufferance in this.
Are sanctified and holy traitors to you.
Are smother'd up, leads fill'd and ridges hors'd
Are spectacled to see him. Your prattling nurse
Are stronger than mine eyes.
Are therefore to be pitied.
Art rich?
As I could pick my lance.
As I do live by food, I met a fool,
As I do trust I am not- then, dear uncle,
As I have set them down. If I do send, dispatch
As all the tuned spheres, and that to friends;
As answering to the weight. Would I might never
As cause will be obey'd. Please you to march;
As children from a bear, the Volsces shunning him.
As ever sigh'd upon a midnight pillow.
As he is proud to do't.
As how I came into that desert place-
As if I had receiv'd them for the hire
As if I lov'd my little should be dieted
As if he did contemn what he requested
As if that whatsoever god who leads him
As it were sin to doubt- that love this painting
As many other mannish cowards have
As merry as when our nuptial day was done,
As often as we eat. By th' elements,
As plates dropp'd from his pocket.
As sensual as the brutish sting itself;
As she would catch another Antony
As sure I think did never man love so,
As the main point of this our after-meeting,
As they us to our trenches. Follow me.
As they would hang them on the horns o' th' moon,
As things but done by chance.
As this I dreamt of?
As those that fear they hope, and know they fear.
As till that time I shall not pity thee.
As to Jove's statue, and the commons made
As to set dogs on sheep- will be his fire
As to us, to all the world, that Caius Marcius
As we do trust they'll end, in true delights.    [A dance] Exeunt
As we greet modern friends withal; and say
As well as speak- it tauntingly replied
As worldlings do, giving thy sum of more
As yet to question you about your fortunes.
As you have been- that's for my country.
As you have done- that's what I can; induc'd
As you have whisper'd faithfully you were,
As you malign our senators for that
As, by my faith, I see no more in you
At Grecian sword, contemning. Tell Valeria
At a crack'd drachma! Cushions, leaden spoons,
At a poor man's house; he us'd me kindly.
At home, upon my brother's guard, even there,
At seventeen years many their fortunes seek,
At some time when his soaring insolence
Attend upon Cominius to these wars.
Attendants
Audrey.                                               Exeunt
Audrey. And how, Audrey, am I the man yet? Doth my simple feature
Augmenting it with tears.
Ballad us out o' tune; the quick comedians
Be angry and dispatch. O couldst thou speak,
Be comfort to my age! Here is the gold;
Be free as is the wind. Deliver him, Titus.
Be gentle grave unto me! Rather on Nilus' mud
Be grafted to your relish. Yet welcome, warriors.
Be hostages for Rome.
Be noble to myself. But hark thee, Charmian!
Be singly counterpois'd. At sixteen years,
Be taken from the people.
Be truly welcome hither. I am the Duke
Bear th' addition nobly ever!
Beauty provoketh thieves sooner than gold.
Because I am the storehouse and the shop
Because that I am more than common tall,
Become a dog that's mad. Then is it sin
Been laden with like frailties which before
Before and in Corioli, let me say
Before the common distribution at
Before-time seen him thus.
Being a Volsce, be that I am. Condition?
Being naked, sick, nor fane nor Capitol,
Being native burghers of this desert city,
Being so frustrate, tell him he mocks
Below their cobbled shoes. They say there's grain enough!
Beneath abhorring. What would you have, you curs,
Beneath the fall I have. [To SELEUCUS] Prithee go hence;
Beneath the visiting moon.                          [Swoons]
Besides, I like you not. If you will know my house,
Besides, his cote, his flocks, and bounds of feed,
Best to be serv'd. Whilst he stood up and spoke,
Bestow it at your pleasure; and believe
Better be held nor more attain'd than by
Between the pale complexion of true love
Betwixt the constant red and mingled damask.
Beyond the mark of others; our then Dictator,
Blow me into abhorring! Rather make
Both field and city ours he never stood
Both from his enterprise and from the world;
Boys.
Boys. He was my father; and he is thrice a villain that says such
Brief, I recover'd him, bound up his wound,
Bring up your army; but I think you'll find
Bring us to this sight, and you shall say
Bring us where we may rest ourselves and feed.
Brought them to be lamented. Our army shall
Bury with those that wore them, these base slaves,
But I am shepherd to another man,
But I can tell you that of late this Duke
But I did find him still mine enemy.
But I will tell you at some meeter season.
But at fourscore it is too late a week;
But at this hour the house doth keep itself;
But cannot make my heart consent to take
But come thy ways, we'll go along together,
But do not look for further recompense
But fare thee well; thou art a gallant youth;
But first begs pardon. Will you sterner be
But hearts for the event.
But heavenly Rosalind!                                  Exit
But if there be nor ever were one such,
But if thy love were ever like to mine,
But is four Volsces? None of you but is
But it proceeds or comes from them to you,
But justly as you have exceeded all promise,
But kindness, nobler ever than revenge,
But make you ready your stiff bats and clubs.
But mantled in your own.
But now I know her. If she be a traitor,
But resolution and the briefest end.
But since that thou canst talk of love so well,
But such another man!
But that the people praise her for her virtues
But that's all one: omittance is no quittance.
But then Aufidius was within my view,
But tie him not to be their bedfellow.
But were I not the better part made mercy,
But what care I for words? Yet words do well
But what will you be call'd?
But when he meant to quail and shake the orb,
But with them change of honours.
But yet my caution was more pertinent
But yet, indeed, the smaller is his daughter;
But, Audrey, there is a youth here in the forest lays claim to
But, O, thy wife!
But, mistress, know yourself. Down on your knees,
But, my good lord, this boy is forest-born,
But, poor old man, thou prun'st a rotten tree
But, since it serves my purpose, I will venture
But, sure, he's proud; and yet his pride becomes him.
But-
Buy thou the cottage, pasture, and the flock,
By Caius Marcius Coriolanus; whom
By all the battles wherein we have fought,
By deed-achieving honour newly nam'd-
By doing deeds of hospitality.
By external swelling; but she looks like sleep,
By giving love, your sorrow and my grief
By interims and conveying gusts we have heard
By reason of his absence, there is nothing
By such poor passion as the maid that milks
By th' blood we have shed together, by th' vows
By the rebound of yours, a grief that smites
By the stern brow and waspish action
By this kind of chase I should hate him, for my father hated his
Caesar's no merchant, to make prize with you
Caius Marcius Coriolanus.
Call thither all the officers o' th' town,
Can a woman rail thus?
Can do all this that he hath promised?
Can in this desert place buy entertainment,
Change you colour?
Charles, it is the stubbornest young fellow of France; full of
Chewing the food of sweet and bitter fancy,
Circumstantial and the Lie Direct.
Clamb'ring the walls to eye him; stalls, bulks, windows,
Clapp'd to their gates. He is himself alone,
Cleanse the foul body of th' infected world,
Come hither, come! Come, come, and take a queen
Come not thou near me; and when that time comes,
Come not within these doors; within this roof
Come then, and take the last warmth of my lips.
Come, I would your cambric were sensible as your finger, that you
Come, more; another stanzo. Call you 'em stanzos?
Come, sister. Shepherdess, look on him better,
Come, to our flock.        Exeunt ROSALIND, CELIA, and CORIN
Cominius, Marcius your old enemy,
Commit the war of white and damask in
Committing me unto my brother's love;
Condemning shadows quite.
Condemning some to death and some to exile;
Confess yourselves wondrous malicious,
Confesses that she secretly o'erheard
Confin'd in all she has, her monument,
Conjectural marriages, making parties strong,
Consider of it.'
Convenient numbers to make good the city;
Coriolanus will carry it.
Corioli like a planet. Now all's his.
Corn for the rich men only. With these shreds
Could not drop forth such giant-rude invention,
Countercheck Quarrelsome; the sixth, the Lie with Circumstance;
Cours'd one another down his innocent nose
Courteous. If I sent him word again it was not well cut, he would
Crested the world. His voice was propertied
Cry the man mercy, love him, take his offer;
Death, that dark spirit, in's nervy arm doth lie,
Dennis!
Deny your asking: take your choice of those
Descended of so many royal kings.
Deserves your hate; and your affections are
Determine for her; for Caesar cannot learn
Devise the fittest time and safest way
Did I offend your Highness.
Did come to languish; and, indeed, my lord,
Did he not moralize this spectacle?
Did make offence, his eye did heal it up.
Did see and hear, devise, instruct, walk, feel,
Did steal behind him as he lay along
Did steer humanity. But you gods will give us
Did tell me of you, bade me trust you; but
Did you ever hear such railing?
Direct; and you may avoid that too with an If. I knew when seven
Diseases in our bodies. I must perforce
Dispropertied their freedoms; holding them
Divide in all with us.                                Exeunt
Do Caesar what he can. Know, sir, that I
Do not abuse my master's bounty by
Do not yourself such wrong, who are in this
Do press among the popular throngs and puff
Do this expediently, and turn him going.              Exeunt
Doing the honour of thy lordliness
Dost thou not see my baby at my breast
Doth it not flow as hugely as the sea,
Doth very foolishly, although he smart,
Duke Frederick, hearing how that every day
During his power go sleep.
Dy'd in his blood, unto the shepherd youth
Else had she with her father rang'd along.
Embarquements all of fury, shall lift up
Envenoms him that bears it!
Ere death dare come to us? How do you, women?
Ere he should thus have ventur'd.
Ere in our own house I do shade my head,
Ere so prevail'd with me; it will in time
Ere stay behind this business.
Ere yet the fight be done, pack up. Down with them!
Even by the squand'ring glances of the fool.
Even daughter, welcome in no less degree.
Even in the cannon's mouth. And then the justice,
Even like a fawning greyhound in the leash,
Even make me wild. O slave, of no more trust
Even till I shrink with cold, I smile and say
Even to Cato's wish, not fierce and terrible
Even to the court, the heart, to th' seat o' th' brain;
Even with the having; it is not so with thee.
Extemporally will stage us, and present
Fall deep in love with thee, and her great charms
Falls not the axe upon the humbled neck
Farewell, good Master Oliver. Not-
Farewell, kind Charmian. Iras, long farewell.
Farther than seen, and one infect another
Filling the air with swords advanc'd and darts,
Find cause in Caesar.
Find out thy brother wheresoe'er he is;
Finds tongues in trees, books in the running brooks,
Firm and irrevocable is my doom
First, for his weeping into the needless stream:
First, in this forest let us do those ends
Food to the suck'd and hungry lioness?
For I am falser than vows made in wine;
For I can nowhere find him like a man.
For I must tell you friendly in your ear:
For Livia and Octavia, to induce
For a second course of fight.
For a short holding. If we lose the field
For half a hundred years. Summon the town.
For his shrunk shank; and his big manly voice,
For in my youth I never did apply
For insurrection's arguing.
For look you, I may make the belly smile
For my prosperity!                                  [Kneels]
For my wounds' sake to give their suffrage. Please you
For sinking under them.
For that I have not wash'd my nose that bled,
For their own good and ours.
For then he's full of matter.
For things that others do; and when we fall
For thou thyself hast been a libertine,
For though abundantly they lack discretion,
For we intend so to dispose you as
For well I know he was unnatural.
For what had he to do to chide at me?
For what he did before Corioli, can him
For, by this heaven, now at our sorrows pale,
Fore me, this fellow speaks! What then? What then?
Fortune fall into the fire? Though Nature hath given us wit to
Fortune makes Nature's natural the cutter-off of Nature's wit.
Fortune reigns in gifts of the world, not in the lineaments of
Foul is most foul, being foul to be a scoffer.
Friend and companion in the front of war,
From every meaner man.
From me do back receive the flour of all,
From me receive that natural competency
From miserable slumber I awak'd.
From rascals worse than they.
From seventeen years till now almost four-score
From slaves that apes would beat! Pluto and hell!
From th' noise of our own drums.'
From tyrant Duke unto a tyrant brother.
From where he should begin and end, but will
From whom I have receiv'd not only greetings,
Frosty, but kindly. Let me go with you;
Full of strange oaths, and bearded like the pard,
Full of the pasture, jumps along by him
Full of wise saws and modern instances;
Generals against the Volscians
Give me some wine, and let me speak a little.
Give us some music; and, good cousin, sing.
Go back, I warrant thee; but I'll catch thine eyes
Go hence a little, and I shall conduct you,
Go put it to the haste.
Go seek him; tell him I would speak with him.
Go sound thy trumpet in the market-place;
Go to my cave and tell me. Good old man,
Go with me to my tent, where you shall see
Go with me, Silvius.                                  Exeunt
Go with me; if you like upon report
Good sir, go with us.
Grounded upon no other argument
Guard her till Caesar come.                             Exit
HYMEN.    Then is there mirth in heaven,
Had I before known this young man his son,
Had borne the business!'
Had circumvention? 'Tis not four days gone
Hadst thou beheld-
Hadst thou descended from another house.
Hail, noble Marcius!
Half all Cominius' honours are to Marcius,
Half an hour since brought my report.
Halloa me like a hare.
Hang in what place you please. Here, my good lord.
Hast thou been drawn to by thy fantasy?
Hast thou no care of me? Shall I abide
Hast thou the pretty worm of Nilus there
Hath banish'd me, his daughter?
Hath heard your praises; and this night he means
Hath not old custom made this life more sweet
Hath not that honour in't it had; for where
Hath overta'en mine act.
Hath ta'en displeasure 'gainst his gentle niece,
Hath thus stood for his country. Therefore please you,
Hath, with the courage which the heart did lend it,
Have I the aspic in my lips? Dost fall?
Have comfort, for I know your plight is pitied
Have made them mules, silenc'd their pleaders, and
Have often sham'd our sex.
Have shown to thee such a declining day
Have slime upon them, such as th' aspic leaves
Have the patricians of you. For your wants,
Have their round haunches gor'd.
Have we no wine here?
Having fully din'd before.
He asked me of what parentage I was; I told him, of as good as
He brings you figs.
He cried to me; I saw him prisoner;
He did inform the truth. But for our gentlemen,
He dies that touches any of this fruit
He gives me so much of mine own as I
He had rather venture all his limbs for honour
He has the stamp of Marcius, and I have
He hath hereto priz'd them at.
He is not very tall; yet for his years he's tall;
He left a promise to return again
He lurch'd all swords of the garland. For this last,
He needs must see himself.
He prov'd best man i' th' field, and for his meed
He received in the repulse of Tarquin seven hurts i' th' body.
He said mine eyes were black, and my hair black,
He sends this bloody napkin. Are you he?
He sent me hither, stranger as I am,
He still hath held them; that to's power he would
He that a fool doth very wisely hit
He that has but effected his good will
He that retires, I'll take him for a Volsce,
He was a thing of blood, whose every motion
He was as rattling thunder. For his bounty,
He was my master, and I wore my life
He will have other means to cut you off;
He'll make a proper man. The best thing in him
He'll make demand of her, and spend that kiss
He's as good at any thing, and yet a fool.
He's mine or I am his. Mine emulation
Heigh-ho! sing heigh-ho! unto the green holly.
Heigh-ho! sing, &c.
Held me in chase, that I was forc'd to wheel
Her love is not the hare that I do hunt;
Her richest lockram 'bout her reechy neck,
Her very silence and her patience,
Here comes my sister, reading; stand aside.
Here feel we not the penalty of Adam,
Here he comes, and in the gown of humility. Mark his behaviour.
Here is the steed, we the caparison.
Here lived I, but now live here no more.
Here was he merry, hearing of a song.
Here's a young maid with travel much oppress'd,
Here's many else have done, you shout me forth
Hereafter, in a better world than this,
High commendation, true applause, and love,
High order in this great solemnity.                   Exeunt
Him vile that was your garland. What's the matter
His acts being seven ages. At first the infant,
His broken promise, and to give this napkin,
His brother here, and put him to the sword;
His crown bequeathing to his banish'd brother,
His deeds with doing them, and is content
His folly to the mettle of my speech?
His insolence can brook to be commanded
His leg is but so-so; and yet 'tis well.
His nobleness well acted, which your death
His ready sense, then straight his doubled spirit
His youngest son- and would not change that calling
His youthful hose, well sav'd, a world too wide
Hisperia, the Princess' gentlewoman,
Holding Corioli in the name of Rome
Hot and rebellious liquors in my blood,
How calm and gentle I proceeded still
How couldst thou in a mile confound an hour,
How hardly I was drawn into this war,
How he's employ'd; he shall in time be ready.
How honourable and how kindly we
How is't with Titus Lartius?
How many actions most ridiculous
How now, my as fair as noble ladies- and the moon, were she
How pomp is followed! Mine will now be yours;
How the dispatch is made, and in what fashion,
How the world goes, that to the pace of it
How you excuse my brother, Rosalind.
I am ambitious for a motley coat.
I am but as a guiltless messenger.
I am fire and air; my other elements
I am for other than for dancing measures.
I am his fortune's vassal and I send him
I am marble-constant; now the fleeting moon
I am possess'd of. 'Tis exactly valued,
I am the second son of old Sir Rowland,
I am weary; yea, my memory is tir'd.
I can no more.
I cannot live out of her company.
I cannot project mine own cause so well
I cannot speak him home. He stopp'd the fliers,
I cannot speak to her, yet she urg'd conference.
I charge thee be not thou more griev'd than I am.
I do engage my life.
I do not greatly care to be deceiv'd,
I do not see them bleed.
I down, and measure out my grave. Farewell, kind master.
I faint almost to death.
I fly thee, for I would not injure thee.
I found her trimming up the diadem
I give heaven thanks, and make no boast of them. Come, warble,
I give to baser life. So, have you done?
I got them in my country's service, when
I had rather be their servant in my way
I had rather have my wounds to heal again
I had rather hear you chide than this man woo.
I had rather seal my lips than to my peril
I have by hard adventure found mine own.
I have follow'd thee to this! But we do lance
I have fought with thee; so often hast thou beat me;
I have heard him read many lectures against it; and I thank God I
I have made it empty.
I have more cause to hate him than to love him;
I have not din'd to-day.
I have seen the dumb men throng to see him and
I have spoke already, and it is provided;
I have the letter here;.yes, here it is:
I have trod a measure; I have flatt'red a lady; I have been
I have your alms. Adieu.
I know not the contents; but, as I guess
I know they do attend us.                             Exeunt
I love him not, nor hate him not; and yet
I love them as they weigh-
I love to cope him in these sullen fits,
I marvel why I answer'd not again;
I may spur on my journey.
I mean to stride your steed, and at all times
I must obey.
I never lov'd my brother in my life.
I never saw the like.
I overheard him and his practices.
I pray you, rise; rise, Egypt.
I pray you, will you take him by the arm?
I prithee tell me who is it quickly, and speak apace. I would
I rather will subject me to the malice
I robb'd his wound of it; behold it stain'd
I saw her hand; she has a leathern hand,
I saw our party to their trenches driven,
I say she never did invent this letter:
I scarce can speak to thank you for myself.
I see no more in you than in the ordinary
I send it through the rivers of your blood,
I shall desire more love and knowledge of you.
I shall remain your debtor.
I should have given him tears unto entreaties
I should not seek an absent argument
I sin in envying his nobility;
I speak from certainties. Nay more,
I tell you this: Caesar through Syria
I think she means to tangle my eyes too!
I thought that all things had been savage here,
I thought to crush him in an equal force,
I warrant him consul.
I was too young that time to value her,
I will appear, and fight.
I will be bitter with him and passing short.
I will endure; and I'll employ thee too.
I will never have her unless thou entreat for her. If you be a
I will not touch a bit.
I will your very faithful feeder be,
I would I were a Roman; for I cannot,
I would fain dissuade him, but he will not be entreated. Speak to
I would not change it.
I would they would forget me, like the virtues
I would thou hadst told me of another father.
I would wish me only he.
I would you rather had been silent. Please you
I yield thee up my life.
I' th' end admire; where ladies shall be frighted
I' th' field prove flatterers, let courts and cities be
I' th' midst o' th' body, idle and unactive,
I' th' part that is at mercy? Five times, Marcius,
I' th' posture of a whore.
I'll ask him what he would. Did you call, sir?
I'll be to Caesar; if thou pleasest not,
I'll do the service of a younger man
I'll have no husband, if you be not he;
I'll lean upon one crutch and fight with t'other
I'll leave you. Pray you speak to 'em, I pray you,
I'll make him find him. Do this suddenly;
I'll mend it and then play-
I'll never wrestle for prize more. And so, God keep your worship!
I'll not sleep neither. This mortal house I'll ruin,
I'll prove a busy actor in their play.                Exeunt
I'll stay to know at your abandon'd cave.               Exit
I'll take her to my guard.
I'll write to him a very taunting letter,
If 'gainst yourself you be incens'd, we'll put you-
If I were a woman, I would kiss as many of you as had beards that
If any think brave death outweighs bad life
If e'er again I meet him beard to beard,
If ever been where bells have knoll'd to church,
If ever from your eyelids wip'd a tear,
If ever sat at any good man's feast,
If ever you have look'd on better days,
If ever- as that ever may be near-
If he be absent, bring his brother to me;
If he be put upon't, and that's as easy
If he for gold will give us any food;
If idle talk will once be necessary,
If not, why cease you till you are so?
If she first meet the curled Antony,
If she refuse me; and from hence I go,
If that I do not dream, or be not frantic-
If their purgation did consist in words,
If thereon you rely. I'll take my leave.
If these shows be not outward, which of you
If they had swallow'd poison 'twould appear
If they set down before's, for the remove
If they will patiently receive my medicine.
If thou rememb'rest not the slightest folly
If thou vanishest, thou tell'st the world
If thus thou and nature can so gently part,
If we and Caius Marcius chance to meet,
If with myself I hold intelligence,
If you apply yourself to our intents-
If you do keep your promises in love
If you do love Rosalind so near the heart as your gesture cries
If you do sorrow at my grief in love,
If you outstay the time, upon mine honour,
If you will mark it.
If you'll bestow a small- of what you have little-
If you'll employ me to him.
If you'll stand fast we'll beat them to their wives,
Immoment toys, things of such dignity
Immortal longings in me. Now no more
In Rome as well as I. Mechanic slaves,
In acclamations hyperbolical,
In all my writings. Go with me, and see
In all your business and necessities.
In arms as sound as when I woo'd, in heart
In aught he merit not.
In bitterness. The common executioner,
In brief, he led me to the gentle Duke,
In earnestness to see him. Seld-shown flamens
In execution.
In fair round belly with good capon lin'd,
In feeding them with those my former fortunes
In good set terms- and yet a motley fool.
In her strong toil of grace.
In his own conduct, purposely to take
In honour follows Coriolanus.
In human action and capacity
In lieu of all thy pains and husbandry.
In mangled forms. O that I were a fool!
In our well-found successes to report
In parcels as I did, would have gone near
In piteous chase; and thus the hairy fool,
In praises sauc'd with lies.
In respect that it is solitary, I like it very well; but in
In sign of what you are, not to reward
In solemn show attend this funeral,
In the which hope I blush, and hide my sword.
In the whole world. But yet let me lament,
In their assign'd and native dwelling-place.
In this dull world, which in thy absence is
In top of all design, my mate in empire,
In wholesome manner.                                    Exit
In whom already he is well grac'd- cannot
In your condemned seconds.                            Exeunt
Inclinable to honour and advance
Intends his journey, and within three days
Into a bush; under which bush's shade
Into a rapture lets her baby cry
Into so quiet and so sweet a style.
Into the lean and slipper'd pantaloon,
Invest me in my motley; give me leave
Irons of a doit, doublets that hangmen would
Is but a quintain, a mere lifeless block.
Is but for two months victuall'd.- So to your pleasures;
Is his complexion; and faster than his tongue
Is his head worth a hat or his chin worth a beard?
Is much upon my fashion.
Is not a single doom; in the name lay
Is second childishness and mere oblivion;
Is this our fabric, if that they-
Is't not your trick?
It bears an angry tenour. Pardon me,
It cannot be; some villains of my court
It is a pretty youth- not very pretty;
It is not worth leave-taking.
It seem'd, appear'd to Rome. By the discovery
It shall content me best. Be gentle to her.
It should be look'd to. Come.                         Exeunt
It was your pleasure, and your own remorse;
It's past the size of drearning. Nature wants stuff
Jane Smile; and I remember the kissing of her batler, and the
Jealous in honour, sudden and quick in quarrel,
Keep you your word, O Duke, to give your daughter;
Keep your word, Phebe, that you'll marry me,
Keep your word, Silvius, that you'll marry her
Know you not, master, to some kind of men
Know you what Caesar means to do with me?
Ladies and maids their scarfs and handkerchers,
Lament nor sorrow at; but please your thoughts
Lay couching, head on ground, with catlike watch,
Lay me stark-nak'd, and let the water-flies
Lay sleeping on his back. About his neck
Lead their successes as we wish our own,
Lead'st first to win some vantage.
Leander, he would have liv'd many a fair year, though Hero had
Learn how 'tis held, and what they are that must
Leave me alone to woo him. Let's away,
Leave nothing out for length, and make us think
Left and abandoned of his velvet friends:
Left on your right hand brings you to the place.
Lesser his person than an ill report;
Lest, in her greatness, by some mortal stroke
Let gentleness my strong enforcement be;
Let him alone, or so many so minded,
Let him be call'd for.
Let it suffice thee that I trust thee not.
Let me o'erleap that custom; for I cannot
Let me see; what think you of falling in love?
Let me the knowledge of my fault bear with me.
Let us alone to guard Corioli.
Let us go thank him, and encourage him;
Let's do it after the high Roman fashion,
Let's fetch him off, or make remain alike.
Lie not, to say mine eyes are murderers.
Lie there what hidden woman's fear there will-
Like Romans, neither foolish in our stands
Like Turk to Christian. Women's gentle brain
Like a ripe sister; the woman low,
Like foggy south, puffing with wind and rain?
Like labour with the rest; where th' other instruments
Like one that means his proper harm- in manacles,
Like to a harvest-man that's task'd to mow
Limp'd in pure love; till he be first suffic'd,
Lo, what befell! He threw his eye aside,
Look him i' th' face.
Look upon him, love him; he worships you.
Look, here comes a lover of mine, and a lover of hers.
Lose and neglect the creeping hours of time;
Lose those he hath won.
Lycurguses- if the drink you give me touch my palate adversely, I
Made all of false-fac'd soothing. When steel grows
Made him give battle to the lioness,
Made to his mistress' eyebrow. Then a soldier,
Maids as we are, to travel forth so far!
Make an extent upon his house and lands.
Make good this ostentation, and you shall
Make not your thoughts your prisons. No, dear Queen;
Make your best use of this; I have perform'd
Make your full reference freely to my lord,
Make yourselves scabs?
Man-ent'red thus, he waxed like a sea,
Marcius coming home!
Marcius for being proud?
Mark Antony I serv'd, who best was worthy
Marry, his kisses are Judas's own children.
May do a noble deed! He brings me liberty.
May give you thankful sacrifice!
May these same instruments which you profane
Meaning me a beast.
Meantime, forget this new-fall'n dignity,
Meeting two such wealsmen as you are- I cannot call you
Melancholy.
Men of great worth resorted to this forest,
Methinks I hear hither your husband's drum;
Methinks I see him stamp thus, and call thus:
Methinks thou speak'st not well. How long is't since?
Methought he was a brother to your daughter.
Mewling and puking in the nurse's arms;
Misguide thy opposers' swords! Bold gentleman,
Modest. If again it was not well cut, he disabled my judgment.
Monsieur Le Beau. What's the news?
More cruel to your good report than grateful
More free from peril than the envious court?
More suits you to conceive than I to speak of.
More than I know the sound of Marcius' tongue
More than his singularity, he goes
More than thy fame and envy. Fix thy foot.
More than your enemies.
More than your force move us to gentleness.
Most dignifies the haver. If it be,
Most friendship is feigning, most loving mere folly.
Most reverend and grave elders, to desire
Most truly limn'd and living in your face,
Much marked of the melancholy Jaques,
Must have their voices; neither will they bate
Must to Corioli back. Send us to Rome
Must you be therefore proud and pitiless?
My best attires. I am again for Cydnus,
My country's high pyramides my gibbet,
My countryman- a Roman by a Roman
My father's rough and envious disposition
My fortunes were more able to relieve her;
My gentle Marcius, worthy Caius, and
My gentle Phebe did bid me give you this.
My hate to Marcius. Where I find him, were it
My life and services.
My lungs began to crow like chanticleer
My master is of churlish disposition,
My noble girls! Ah, women, women, look,
My noble steed, known to the camp, I give him,
My resolution's plac'd, and I have nothing
My tongue hath wrong'd him: if it do him right,
My tongue to such a pace. 'Look, sir, my wounds
My very heart at root.
My words disbench'd you not.
My work hath yet not warm'd me. Fare you well;
Nature's, who perceiveth our natural wits too dull to reason of
Nature.
Nay, keep your place.
Never so much as in a thought unborn
Never sound more! When drums and trumpets shall
No better than a sty? O, see, my women,        [Antony dies]
No faith, proud mistress, hope not after it;
No grave upon the earth shall clip in it
No less beg than a kingdom. If he please
No less in pity than his glory which
No longer Celia, but Aliena.
No more do yours. Your virtues, gentle master,
No planet is of mine.
No public benefit which you receive
No; let my father seek another heir.
None about Caesar
None about Caesar trust but Proculeius.
None could be so abus'd in sight as he.
Nor by a hired knife; but that self hand
Nor cowardly in retire. Believe me, sirs,
Nor did not with unbashful forehead woo
Nor ne'er wed woman, if you be not she.
Nor once be chastis'd with the sober eye
Nor, I am sure, there is not force in eyes
Nor, showing, as the manner is, his wounds
Not Afric owns a serpent I abhor
Not a word?
Not being Fortune, he's but Fortune's knave,
Not by a public minister of justice,
Not cowardly put off my helmet to
Not for the fliers. Mark me, and do the like.
Not petty things admitted. Where's Seleucus?
Not rash like his accusers, and thus answered.
Not to seem senseless of the bob; if not,
Not what you have reserv'd, nor what acknowledg'd,
Now I do frown on thee with all my heart;
Now I'll stand to it, the pancakes were naught and the mustard
Now boast thee, death, in thy possession lies
Now counterfeit to swoon; why, now fall down;
Now put your shields before your hearts, and fight
Now show the wound mine eye hath made in thee.
Now to that name my courage prove my title!
Now, Charmian!
Now, Iras, what think'st thou?
Now, Mars, I prithee, make us quick in work,
Now, noble Charmian, we'll dispatch indeed;
O Antony! Nay, I will take thee too:
O Phebe, Phebe, Phebe!                          Exit Silvius
O Rosalind! these trees shall be my books,
O my sweet master! O you memory
O poor Orlando, thou art overthrown!
O rarely base!
O'ertake pursu'd success, but I do feel,
O, come apace, dispatch. I partly feel thee.
O, me alone! Make you a sword of me?
O, such another sleep, that I might see
O, welcome home! And welcome, General.
O, what a world is this, when what is comely
O, wither'd is the garland of the war,
OFFICER. He doth appear.
Obscured in the circle of this forest.
Of Caesar seek your honour, with your safety. O!
Of Phoebus' burning kisses. Such a pother,
Of a diverted blood and bloody brother.
Of all opinion that grows rank in them
Of bare distress hath ta'en from me the show
Of censuring Rome? Rather a ditch in Egypt
Of drops that sacred pity hath engend'red;
Of dull Octavia. Shall they hoist me up,
Of easy ways to die. Take up her bed,
Of eyes again so royal! Your crown's awry;
Of female favour, and bestows himself
Of him I was about to call his father-
Of him that caus'd it.
Of his demerits rob Cominius.
Of life at once untie. Poor venomous fool,
Of many desperate studies by his uncle,
Of more strong link asunder than can ever
Of my Lord General.
Of my good purposes, and put your children
Of my revenge, thou present. But look to it:
Of nature's sale-work. 'Od's my little life,
Of no more soul nor fitness for the world
Of old Sir Rowland! Why, what make you here?
Of our proceedings here. On th' market-place
Of smooth civility; yet arn I inland bred,
Of stern commandment. But whate'er you are
Of the whole body. But, if you do remember,
Of the whole body. The belly answer'd-
Of their best trust; o'er them Aufidius,
Of their breath only!
Of their own choice. One's Junius Brutus-
Of things that merchants sold. Therefore be cheer'd;
Of this most wise rebellion, thou goest foremost.
Of thy intents desires instruction,
Of what we think against thee.
Of woman in me. Now from head to foot
Officious, and not valiant, you have sham'd me
On all that need. Let me report to him
On her dead mistress. Tremblingly she stood,
One jot of ceremony.
Only for bearing burdens, and sore blows
Only in strokes; but with thy grim looks and
Only my wars with him. He is a lion
Opinion, that so sticks on Marcius, shall
Oppress'd with two weak evils, age and hunger,
Or Charles or something weaker masters thee.
Or I shall show the cinders of my spirits
Or all or lose his hire.
Or be accus'd of folly. I shall tell you
Or else a rude despiser of good manners,
Or else, refusing me, to wed this shepherd;
Or foil'd some debile wretch, which without note
Or hailstone in the sun. Your virtue is
Or have acquaintance with mine own desires;
Or if thou hast not broke from company
Or if thou hast not sat as I do now,
Or look on thine; we could not stall together
Or what is he of basest function
Or with a base and boist'rous sword enforce
Or wrath or craft may get him.
Or, by the fires of heaven, I'll leave the foe
Or, if thou canst not, O, for shame, for shame,
Or, if we did derive it from our friends,
Orlando, for my husband. There's a girl goes before the priest;
Orlando. What do you say, sister?
Our Alexandrian revels; Antony
Our Rome hath such a soldier.'
Our Rome will cast upon thee.
Our care and pity is so much upon you
Our equalness to this. Hear me, good friends-
Our greatest friends attend us.
Our guider, come; to th' Roman camp conduct us.       Exeunt
Our lamp is spent, it's out! Good sirs, take heart.
Our most persisted deeds.
Our musty superfluity. See, our best elders.
Our purpose to them; and to our noble consul
Our steed the leg, the tongue our trumpeter,
Over the wretched? What though you have no beauty-
Parcel the sum of my disgraces by
Patience awhile, you'st hear the belly's answer.
Patience is sottish, and impatience does
Phebe did write it.
Piercing our Romans; then, valiant Titus, take
Plaster you o'er, that you may be abhorr'd
Play, music; and you brides and bridegrooms all,
Praising the proud disdainful shepherdess
Pray now, no more.
Pray you go fit you to the custom, and
Presents more woeful pageants than the scene
Prithee be cheerful. Know'st thou not the Duke
Prosperity be thy page!
Provided that you weed your better judgments
Provok'd by my offence.
Put on the gown, stand naked, and entreat them
Put we i' th' roll of conquest. Still be't yours,
Rank of gross diet, shall we be enclouded,
Ransoming him or pitying, threat'ning th' other;
Rather our state's defective for requital
Rather than they shall pound us up; our gates,
Re-quick'ned what in flesh was fatigate,
Rebell'd against the belly; thus accus'd it:
Refus'd most princely gifts, am bound to beg
Reliev'd, but not betray'd.
Reply Churlish; the fourth, the Reproof Valiant; the fifth, the
Retire to win our purpose.
Right worthy you priority.
Rome and her rats are at the point of battle;
Rosalind, if you will.
Rosalind, meet. [To SILVIUS] As you love Phebe, meet;- and as I
Rosalind; so, adieu.
Rosalind?
Rose at an instant, learn'd, play'd, eat together;
Rose, be merry.
Run reeking o'er the lives of men, as if
Run, run, Orlando; carve on every tree,
Sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans every thing.
Saw her abed, and in the morning early
Say that you love me not; but say not so
Say what thou canst, I'll go along with thee.
Says very wisely, 'It is ten o'clock;
Scratch thee but with a pin, and there remains
See him pluck Aufidius down by th' hair;
See what I do deliver out to each,
Seeing Orlando, it unlink'd itself,
Seek him with candle; bring him dead or living
Seeking the bubble reputation
Sell when you can; you are not for all markets.
Sermons in stones, and good in everything.
Set me against Aufidius and his Antiates;
Shall be brought drunken forth, and I shall see
Shall be the general's fault, though he perform
Shall bear the business in some other fight,
Shall darken him for ever.
Shall fly out of itself. Nor sleep nor sanctuary,
Shall say against their hearts 'We thank the gods
Shall see thy virtue witness'd every where.
Shall share the good of our returned fortune,
Shall touch the people- which time shall not want,
Shall we be sund'red? Shall we part, sweet girl?
Shall we go, coz?
Shalt see me once more strike at Tullus' face.
She calls me proud, and that she could not love me,
She do defeat us; for her life in Rome
She has a huswife's hand- but that's no matter.
She hath pursu'd conclusions infinite
She levell'd at our purposes, and being royal,
She says I am not fair, that I lack manners;
She shall be buried by her Antony;
She soon shall know of us, by some of ours,
Should be call'd tyrants, butchers, murderers!
Should be in them to give.
Should have shook lions into civil streets,
Should know we were afoot.
Should not be utter'd feebly. It is held
Should, in their own confines, with forked heads
Shouting their emulation.
Show me, my women, like a queen. Go fetch
Show them th' unaching scars which I should hide,
Sicinius Velutus, and I know not. 'Sdeath!
Sighing like furnace, with a woeful ballad
Silvius, the time was that I hated thee;
Silvius] I will content you if what pleases you contents you, and
Since I heard thence; these are the words- I think
Sir Oliver Martext, you are well met. Will you dispatch us here
Sir Oliver.
Sir, you have wrestled well, and overthrown
Slew three opposers; Tarquin's self he met,
So near our public court as twenty miles,
So sought'st to hinder.
So sweetly tastes, being the thing I am.
So take her to thee, shepherd. Fare you well.
So was I when your Highness banish'd him.
So, now the gates are ope; now prove good seconds;
Soft as the parasite's silk, let him be made
Soldiers, Citizens, Messengers, Servants to Aufidius, and other
Some certain of your brethren roar'd and ran
Some faults to make us men. Caesar is touch'd.
Some lively touches of my daughter's favour.
Some nobler token I have kept apart
Some parcels of their power are forth already,
Some scar of it; lean upon a rush,
Some squeaking Cleopatra boy my greatness
Speak that which is not.
Speak to the people, and they pity her.
Splitted the heart. This is his sword;
Sticks me at heart. Sir, you have well deserv'd;
Still cupboarding the viand, never bearing
Still we went coupled and inseparable.
Stood on th' extremest verge of the swift brook,
Strike at the heaven with your staves as lift them
Strike those that make them; and their story is
Such Ethiope words, blacker in their effect
Such eyes the widows in Corioli wear,
Such garments, and such years: 'The boy is fair,
Support him by the arm. Give me your hand,
Sweet are the uses of adversity,
Sweet, say on.
Take that, and He that doth the ravens feed,
Take to you, as your predecessors have,
Take your commission; hie you to your bands;
Tears our recountments had most kindly bath'd,
Tell me whereon the likelihood depends.
Th' have not prepar'd for us.
Th' undoing of yourself. Let the world see
Than Hector's forehead when it spit forth blood
Than any of her lineaments can show her.
Than camels in their war, who have their provand
Than carry it but by the suit of the gentry to him
Than dangerous to me. To Aufidius thus
Than doth your brother that hath banish'd you.
Than gilt his trophy. The breasts of Hecuba,
Than have him hold that purpose, and to put it
Than he that dies and lives by bloody drops?
Than hear say how I got them.
Than in their countenance. Will you hear the letter?
Than is the coal of fire upon the ice
Than love that's hir'd! What, goest thou back? Thou shalt
Than misery itself would give, rewards
Than one on's ears to hear it? Proceed, Cominius.
Than she a woman. 'Tis such fools as you
Than sway with them in theirs.
Than that mix'd in his cheek; 'twas just the difference
Than that of painted pomp? Are not these woods
Than the rebuke you give it.
Than thine own gladness that thou art employ'd.
Than those she placeth highest! So farewell.
Than to die well and not my master's debtor.          Exeunt
Than we to stretch it out. Masters o' th' people,
Than without candle may go dark to bed-
That I am proud to hunt.
That I am wise. I must have liberty
That I did suit me all points like a man?
That I may pass this doing.
That I might hear thee call great Caesar ass
That I shall blush in acting, and might well
That I shall think it a most plenteous crop
That I some lady trifles have reserv'd,
That Marcius shall be consul.
That Rome should dote on; yet, by the faith of men,
That bear the shapes of men, how have you run
That best can aid your action.
That both our powers, with smiling fronts encount'ring,
That bring these tidings to this fair assembly.
That can do hurt.
That can entame my spirits to your worship.
That can therein tax any private party?
That can translate the stubbornness of fortune
That cannot so much as a blossom yield
That could be brought to bodily act ere Rome
That could give more, but that her hand lacks means.
That did but lately foil the sinewy Charles;
That do outface it with their semblances.
That does appear as he were flay'd? O gods!
That ends this strange eventful history,
That envied his receipt; even so most fitly
That ever love did make thee run into,
That every eye which in this forest looks
That eyes, that are the frail'st and softest things,
That feelingly persuade me what I am.'
That fools should be so deep contemplative;
That from the hunter's aim had ta'en a hurt,
That grew the more by reaping. His delights
That have beheld the doing.
That have endur'd shrewd days and nights with us,
That have no use for trusting. If your master
That he in sport doth call his Rosalind.
That he misconstrues all that you have done.
That he will give them make I as little question
That her old gloves were on, but 'twas her hands;
That here was at the wrestling?
That here were well begun and well begot;
That hunger broke stone walls, that dogs must eat,
That in civility thou seem'st so empty?
That in these several places of the city
That in this desert inaccessible,
That is not glad to see thee! You are three
That kills and pains not?
That like nor peace nor war? The one affrights you,
That little cares for buying any thing.
That liv'd amongst men.
That lov'd your father. The residue of your fortune,
That love's keen arrows make.
That majesty, to keep decorum, must
That makes the world full of ill-favour'd children.
That meat was made for mouths, that the gods sent not
That most are willing. If any such be here-
That nature must compel us to lament
That only like a gulf it did remain
That rids our dogs of languish?
That says his bravery is not on my cost,
That she preparedly may frame herself
That so she died; for her physician tells me
That sucks the nurse asleep?
That the false huswife Fortune break her wheel,
That the main harvest reaps; loose now and then
That the old carlot once was master of.
That their discharge did stretch his leathern coat
That they of Rome are ent'red in our counsels
That thou vouchsafing here to visit me,
That thou with license of free foot hast caught
That thou, my brother, my competitor
That to your wanting may be minist'red.
That valour is the chiefest virtue and
That was his mistress.
That was the whip of your bragg'd progeny,
That we remain your friend; and so, adieu.
That we with smoking swords may march from hence
That weep'st to see me triumph? Ah, my dear,
That were with him exil'd. This to be true
That will not be denied your Highness' presence.
That with the fusty plebeians hate thine honours,
That you did fear is done.
That you do speak to the people.
That you insult, exult, and all at once,
That you will feed on; but what is, come see,
That your poor friends must woo your company?
That youth is surely in their company.
That's lesser than a little.  [Drum afar off]  Hark, our drums
That's thousand to one good one- when you now see
That, rubbing the poor itch of your opinion,
The Duke hath put on a religious life,
The Duke is humorous; what he is, indeed,
The Volsces are in arms.
The Volsces have much corn: take these rats thither
The arm of mine own body, and the heart
The beggar's nurse and Caesar's.
The best, with whom we may articulate
The blind to hear him speak; matrons flung gloves,
The blood I drop is rather physical
The blood upon your visage dries; 'tis time
The body of the country, city, court,
The bonny prizer of the humorous Duke?
The bristled lips before him; he bestrid
The business of this man looks out of him;
The charges of our friends. The Roman gods,
The cicatrice and capable impressure
The city is well stor'd.
The clownish fool out of your father's court?
The common file- a plague! tribunes for them!
The common muck of the world. He covets less
The commoners, for whom we stand, but they
The constant service of the antique world,
The cost of princes on unworthy shoulders?
The counsellor heart, the arm our soldier,
The crown o' th' earth doth melt. My lord!
The element they liv'd in. In his livery
The enemy of all your graces lives.
The fair, the chaste, and unexpressive she.             Exit
The faults of fools but folly.
The flux of company.' Anon, a careless herd,
The gods rebuke me, but it is tidings
The gods themselves do weep.
The gods, not the patricians, make it, and
The good patricians must be visited;
The grave of your deserving; Rome must know
The greatness he has got. I hourly learn
The helms o' th' state, who care for you like fathers,
The ingratitude of this Seleucus does
The juice of Egypt's grape shall moist this lip.
The kingly crowned head, the vigilant eye,
The ladies, her attendants of her chamber,
The like do you; so shall we pass along,
The like is on her arm.
The lioness had torn some flesh away,
The little O, the earth.
The luck of Caesar, which the gods give men
The man I speak of cannot in the world
The matter's in my head and in my heart;
The means of weakness and debility;
The melancholy Jaques grieves at that;
The mortal gate of th' city, which he painted
The motley fool thus moral on the time,
The mouse ne'er shunn'd the cat as they did budge
The napless vesture of humility;
The noblest; and do now not basely die,
The one side must have bale.
The opening of his mouth; but suddenly,
The other is daughter to the banish'd Duke,
The other makes you proud. He that trusts to you,
The owner of the house I did inquire for?
The parts and graces of the wrestler
The pauses that he makes.
The people mutinous; and it is rumour'd,
The prayers of priests nor times of sacrifice,
The present consul and last general
The quality of her passion shall require,
The rabble should have first unroof'd the city
The rank of osiers by the murmuring stream
The record of what injuries you did us,
The royal disposition of that beast
The seasons' difference; as the icy fang
The sight of lovers feedeth those in love.
The soil, the profit, and this kind of life,
The soldier's pole is fall'n! Young boys and girls
The stroke of death is as a lover's pinch,
The strongest nerves and small inferior veins
The theme of our assembly.
The thrifty hire I sav'd under your father,
The thunder-like percussion of thy sounds
The treasure in this field achiev'd and city,
The value of her own. 'Twere a concealment
The way it takes, cracking ten thousand curbs
The why is plain as way to parish church:
The wise man's folly is anatomiz'd
The world esteem'd thy father honourable,
The worthiest men have done't?
The wretched animal heav'd forth such groans
Their bands i' th' vaward are the Antiates,
Their counsels and their cares, digest things rightly
Their graces serve them but as enemies?
Their mediation- must I be unfolded
Their most absurd intents.
Their nicely gawded cheeks to th' wanton spoil
Their rotten privilege and custom 'gainst
Their very heart of hope.
Then he hath wrong'd himself; if he be free,
Then reason safely with you. Therefore be it known,
Then shall you know the wounds invisible
Then should I know you by description-
Then the whining school-boy, with his satchel
Then your hose should be ungarter'd, your bonnet unbanded, your
Then, good my liege, mistake me not so much
There be some women, Silvius, had they mark'd him
There is Aufidius. List what work he makes
There is a vent of blood, and something blown;
There is much matter to be heard and learn'd.
There is the man of my soul's hate, Aufidius,
There stripp'd himself, and here upon his arm
There then! how then? what then? Let me see wherein
There was a pretty redness in his lip,
There was no winter in't; an autumn 'twas
There's none within.
There's one thing wanting, which I doubt not but
Therefore devise with me how we may fly,
Therefore my age is as a lusty winter,
Therefore use thy discretion: I had as lief thou didst break his
Therefore, for Coriolanus neither to care whether they love or
These thoughts of horror further than you shall
These three lead on this preparation
They are as innocent as grace itself.
They are not such as you.
They do disdain us much beyond our thoughts,
They found the bed untreasur'd of their mistress.
They have plac'd their men of trust?
They have the gift to know it; and in his brain,
They have their exits and their entrances;
They most must laugh. And why, sir, must they so?
They needs must show themselves; which in the hatching,
They said they were an-hungry; sigh'd forth proverbs-
They vented their complainings; which being answer'd,
They'll open of themselves.  [Alarum far off]  Hark you far off!
They'll sit by th' fire and presume to know
Thinking that I mean him, but therein suits
This Charmian liv'd but now; she stood and spake.
This I must do, or know not what to do;
This case of that huge spirit now is cold.
This handkercher was stain'd.
This is a letter of your own device.
This is a man's invention, and his hand.
This is call'd the Reply Churlish. If again it was not well cut,
This is no place; this house is but a butchery;
This is the very false gallop of verses; why do you infect
This seen, Orlando did approach the man,
This was his basket.
This wide and universal theatre
Thither where more attends you; and you slander
Thither will I invite the Duke and all's contented followers. Go
Those centuries to our aid; the rest will serve
Thou an Egyptian puppet shall be shown
Thou art a fool. She robs thee of thy name;
Thou art not for the fashion of these times,
Thou art right welcome as thy master is.
Thou diest for it.
Thou hast not lov'd.
Thou hast not lov'd;
Thou hast not lov'd;
Thou mad'st thine enemies shake, as if the world
Thou mean'st to have him grant thee.
Thou offer'st fairly to thy brothers' wedding:
Thou rascal, that art worst in blood to run,
Thou shouldst have better pleas'd me with this deed,
Thou shouldst not scape me here.
Thou tell'st me there is murder in mine eye.
Thou wouldst have mercy on me.
Thou't not believe thy deeds; but I'll report it
Though I look old, yet I am strong and lusty;
Though Marcius earn'd them not; and all his faults
Though in thy youth thou wast as true a lover
Though thanks to all, must I select from all; the rest
Though they had wings. Slave, soulless villain, dog!
Though written in our flesh, we shall remember
Though you were born in Rome.' His bloody brow
Three or four miles about; else had I, sir,
Through th' ashes of my chance. Wert thou a man,
Thus most invectively he pierceth through
Thus must I from the smoke into the smother;
Thus we may see,' quoth he, 'how the world wags;
Thy company, which erst was irksome to me,
Thy exercise hath been too violent
Thy faith my fancy to thee doth combine.
Thy huntress' name that my full life doth sway.
Thy lands and all things that thou dost call thine
Thy news?
Thy palm some moment keeps; but now mine eyes,
Tickled with good success, disdains the shadow
Till I and my affairs are answered.
Till one can do no more.
Till that the wearer's very means do ebb?
Till they had stol'n our jewel. All's but nought;
Till thou canst quit thee by thy brother's mouth
Titus Lartius are set down before their city Corioli; they
To Marcius shall be honours, though indeed
To Rome of our success. You, Titus Lartius,
To answer all the city.
To answer us.
To be adopted heir to Frederick.
To be ungentle.
To bear your griefs yourself, and leave me out;
To blow on whom I please, for so fools have;
To break the heart of generosity
To bring again these foolish runaways.                Exeunt
To burn the lodging where you use to lie,
To do that thing that ends all other deeds,
To ease his breast with panting.
To excuse their after wrath. Husband, I come.
To fall in love with him; but, for my part,
To fool their preparation and to conquer
To fright the animals, and to kill them up
To give me conquer'd Egypt for my son,
To give my poor host freedom.
To glean the broken ears after the man
To gnaw their garners. Worshipful mutineers,
To gratify his noble service that
To hear Cominius speak?
To hear my nothings monster'd.                          Exit
To hear themselves rememb'red.
To help Cominius.
To help our fielded friends! Come, blow thy blast.
To hide us from pursuit that will be made
To hide your doings and to silence that
To him or our authorities. For an end,
To keep his daughter company; whose loves
To keep your great pretences veil'd till when
To kindle their dry stubble; and their blaze
To lay on me a cruelty by taking
To leave this place. Albeit you have deserv'd
To let him slip at will.
To liberty, and not to banishment.                    Exeunt
To make him worthy whose offence subdues him,
To make it clear, but do confess I have
To make thee consul.
To make these doubts all even.
To meet Mark Antony. Sirrah, Iras, go.
To myself nothing. Speak the truth, Seleucus.
To one so meek, that mine own servant should
To one, his lands withheld; and to the other,
To play till doomsday. Bring our crown and all.
To praise my noble act. I hear him mock
To prey on nothing that doth seem as dead.
To rush into the secret house of death
To see inherited my very wishes,
To see perform'd the dreaded act which thou
To seek a living in our territory.
To seem despiteful and ungentle to you.
To send for Titus Lartius, it remains,
To show the letter that I writ to you.
To speak my mind, and I will through and through
To spend the time to end it.
To spend upon his haters. If thou please
To stale't a little more.
To take in many towns ere almost Rome
To take me to thee, as I was to him
To tell them that this world did equal theirs
To tell this story, that you might excuse
To tell you what I was, since my conversion
To th' discontented members, the mutinous parts
To th' fairness of my power.
To th' people, beg their stinking breaths.
To th' utmost of a man, and giddy censure
To th' way she's forc'd to.
To that destruction which I'll guard them from,
To that which had too much.' Then, being there alone,
To the last gasp, with truth and loyalty.
To the which place a poor sequest'red stag,
To think my poverty is treacherous.
To think upon you.
To throw my sceptre at the injurious gods;
To undercrest your good addition
To us that give you truly. By your patience,
To vie strange forms with fancy; yet t' imagine
To wash the eyes of kings.
To win a vulgar station; our veil'd dames
To yield what passes here.
To-day my Lord of Amiens and myself
Too proud to be so valiant.
Took her own way. The manner of their deaths?
Touch their effects in this. Thyself art coming
Touching the weal o' th' common, you shall find
Treason is not inherited, my lord;
Tribunes of the People
True sword to sword, I'll potch at him some way,
Truly, I would the gods had made thee poetical.
Tullus Aufidius, is he within your walls?
Tullus Aufidius, that will put you to't.
Turn terror into sport; as weeds before
Turning again toward childish treble, pipes
Unclaim'd of any man. But who comes here?
Under Cominius.
Under an oak whose antique root peeps out
Under an oak, whose boughs were moss'd with age,
Under the gods, keep you in awe, which else
Under the shade of melancholy boughs,
Unpolicied!
Unreconciliable, should divide
Unto the appetite and affection common
Unwillingly to school. And then the lover,
Uplift us to the view; in their thick breaths,
Upon a pleasing treaty, and have hearts
Upon him as he pass'd; the nobles bended
Upon his peril, that I have reserv'd
Upon my party, I'd revolt, to make
Upon that poor and broken bankrupt there?'
Upon the brook that brawls along this wood!
Upon the caves of Nile.
Upon the sobbing deer.
Upon their ancient malice will forget
Upon this present action.
Upon your favours swims with fins of lead,
Valiant. If again it was not well cut, he would say I lie. This
Valiantly vanquish'd. Now my spirit is going
Very good orators, when they are out, they will spit; and for
Wag'd equal with him.
Walk'd crowns and crownets; realms and islands were
Was brow-bound with the oak. His pupil age
Was tim'd with dying cries. Alone he ent'red
Wash my fierce hand in's heart. Go you to th' city;
Wave thus to express his disposition,
We answer others' merits in our name,
We are fit to bid her welcome.              Exit GENTLEWOMAN
We are not to stay all together, but to come by him where he
We call a nettle but a nettle, and
We cannot keep the town.
We do request your kindest ears; and, after,
We have at disadvantage fought, and did
We have made to endure friends, that you directly
We have some old crab trees here at home that will not
We met here both to thank and to remember
We must be married or we must live in bawdry.
We must suggest the people in what hatred
We never yet made doubt but Rome was ready
We prove this very hour.
We purpose her no shame. Give her what comforts
We recommend to you, Tribunes of the People,
We render you the tenth; to be ta'en forth
We shall be bless'd to do, if he remember
We shall be charg'd again. Whiles we have struck,
We shall be short'ned in our aim, which was
We shall have shortly discord in the spheres.
We will extenuate rather than enforce.
We'll bury him; and then, what's brave, what's noble,
We'll have a swashing and a martial outside,
We'll hear him what he says. Whence are you?
We'll light upon some settled low content.
Wear this for me; one out of suits with fortune,
Wearing thy hearer in thy mistress' praise,
Wears this war's garland; in token of the which,
Wears yet a precious jewel in his head;
Welcome to Rome, renowned Coriolanus!             [Flourish]
Well might they fester 'gainst ingratitude
Were both extermin'd.
Were dolphin-like: they show'd his back above
Were feverous and did tremble.
Were he the butcher of my son, he should
Were he to stand for consul, never would he
Were man as rare as Phoenix. 'Od's my will!
Were not so rich a jewel. Thou wast a soldier
Were slily crept into his human powers,
What I can show in this.                              Exeunt
What authority surfeits on would relieve us; if they would yield
What could the belly answer?
What did he when thou saw'st him? What said he? How look'd he?
What ever have been thought on in this state
What good condition can a treaty find
What harm can your bisson conspectuities glean out of this
What is it? Coriolanus must I can thee?
What man I am, and how, and why, and where,
What poor an instrument
What says the other troop?
What should I stay-                                   [Dies]
What thou hast done thy master Caesar knows,
What woman in the city do I name
What you have done, before our army hear me.
What you have nobly done.
What's done i' th' Capitol, who's like to rise,
What's that to me? My father was no traitor.
What, art thou stiff? Stand'st out?
What, what! good cheer! Why, how now, Charmian!
What, you look merrily!
When Tarquin made a head for Rome, he fought
When blows have made me stay, I fled from words.
When by and by the din of war 'gan pierce
When from the first to last, betwixt us two,
When he might act the woman in the scene,
When he that speaks them pleases those that hear.
When service should in my old limbs lie lame,
When service sweat for duty, not for meed!
When she did suckle Hector, look'd not lovelier
When she does praise me grieves me. I have done
When she is gone. Then open not thy lips.
When such a one as she such is her neighbour?
When that I say the city-woman bears
When that the sleeping man should stir; for 'tis
When the alarum were struck than idly sit
When with his Amazonian chin he drove
When you curse them as enemies.
Where foxes, geese; you are no surer, no,
Where great patricians shall attend, and shrug,
Where he for grace is kneel'd to.
Where he should find you lions, finds you hares;
Where in the purlieus of this forest stands
Where is he? Call him hither.
Where is the enemy? Are you lords o' th' field?
Where it did mark, it took; from face to foot
Where mine his thoughts did kindle- that our stars,
Where none will sweat but for promotion,
Where senators shall mingle tears with smiles;
Where they shall know our mind. Away!                 Exeunt
Where's Dolabella, to second Proculeius?
Where, ere we do repose us, we will write
Where, meeting with an old religious man,
Whereby they live. And though that all at once
Wherefore's this noise?
Wherein I liv'd the greatest prince o' th' world,
Wherein thou seest me mask'd. For thy revenge
Wherein we play in.
Wherein went he? What makes he here? Did he ask for me? Where
Wherein you see me smear'd; if any fear
Whereof we have ta'en good, and good store- of all
Whether I blush or no. Howbeit, I thank you;
Whether for east or west. The dearth is great;
Which I did store to be my foster-nurse,
Which I have darted at thee, hurt thee not;
Which I have pass'd upon her; she is banish'd.
Which all this while had bled; and now he fainted,
Which he treads on at noon. But I do wonder
Which hurts and is desir'd. Dost thou lie still?
Which is as dry as the remainder biscuit
Which is my heaven to have. Come, thou mortal wretch,
Which makes me sweat with wrath. Come on, my fellows.
Which men are best inclin'd.
Which my love makes religion to obey,
Which ne'er came from the lungs, but even thus-
Which of the two was daughter of the Duke
Which our divines lose by 'em.
Which shackles accidents and bolts up change,
Which she did use as she was writing of it,
Which sleeps, and never palates more the dug,
Which teacheth thee that thou and I am one.
Which told me they had beat you to your trenches?
Which towards you are most gentle- you shall find
Which we devise him.
Which when it bites and blows upon my body,
Which would increase his evil. He that depends
Which writ his honour in the acts it did
Which yet seem shut, we have but pinn'd with rushes;
Which you do live upon; and fit it is,
Which, being advanc'd, declines, and then men die.
Which, like the toad, ugly and venomous,
Which, to the spire and top of praises vouch'd,
While she chats him; the kitchen malkin pins
Whiles, like a doe, I go to find my fawn,
Whilst I, with those that have the spirit, will haste
Whither 'tis bent. Most likely 'tis for you;
Whither to go, and what to bear with us;
Who after me hath many a weary step
Who can come in and say that I mean her,
Who gave me fresh array and entertainment,
Who has a charter to extol her blood,
Who is of Rome worse hated than of you,
Who is so full of grace that it flows over
Who is the sink o' th' body-
Who laid him down and bask'd him in the sun,
Who led me instantly unto his cave,
Who quickly fell before him; in which hurtling
Who sensibly outdares his senseless sword,
Who shut their coward gates on atomies,
Who thrives and who declines; side factions, and give out
Who with her head nimble in threats approach'd
Who you saw sitting by me on the turf,
Whom he reports to be a great magician,
Whom with all praise I point at, saw him fight
Whose heart th' accustom'd sight of death makes hard,
Why are you virtuous? Why do people love you?
Why so am I: we still have slept together,
Why then my taxing like a wild-goose flies,
Why then, my love adieu!
Why would you be so fond to overcome
Why writes she so to me? Well, shepherd, well,
Why, what means this? Why do you look on me?
Will catch at us like strumpets, and scald rhymers
Will have it thus; my master and my lord
Will kneel to him with thanks.
Will never let come forth.
Will not wait pinion'd at your master's court,
Will suddenly break forth. Sir, fare you well.
Will then cry out of Marcius 'O, if he
Will you go, sister? Shepherd, ply her hard.
Will you undo yourselves?
Wilt thou change fathers? I will give thee mine.
Win upon power and throw forth greater themes
Wish we all joy and honour.
With all his trim belonging; and from this time,
With all th' applause-and clamour of the host,
With bats and clubs? The matter? Speak, I pray you.
With every minute you do change a mind
With eyes severe and beard of formal cut,
With fame, a name to Caius Marcius; these
With flight and agued fear! Mend and charge home,
With greasy aprons, rules, and hammers, shall
With hearts more proof than shields. Advance, brave Titus.
With his mail'd hand then wiping, forth he goes,
With his most noble blood.
With honours like himself.                 [CORIOLANUS sits]
With measure heap'd in joy, to th' measures fall.
With observation, the which he vents
With one that I have bred? The gods! It smites me
With only suff'ring stain by him; for him
With other muniments and petty helps
With shunless destiny; aidless came off,
With spectacles on nose and pouch on side,
With tears as sovereign as the blood of hearts,
With the least cause these his new honours; which
With them he enters; who, upon the sudden,
With thousands of these quarter'd slaves, as high
With thy chaste eye, from thy pale sphere above,
With thy sharp teeth this knot intrinsicate
With variable complexions, all agreeing
Withal, as large a charter as the wind,
Within Corioli gates, where he hath won,
Within an hour; and, pacing through the forest,
Within these ten days if that thou beest found
Within this twelvemonth, or turn thou no more
Worse than a promise-breaker.
Worse than a theft, no less than a traducement,
Worth many babes and beggars!
Worth seizure do we seize into our hands,
Worthy Cominius, speak.
Would be eternal in our triumph. Go,
Would feed on one another? What's their seeking?
Would have a queen his beggar, you must tell him
Would he not be a comfort to our travel?
Would seem but modest. Therefore, I beseech you,
Would the nobility lay aside their ruth
Wouldst thou disgorge into the general world.
Wouldst thou have laugh'd had I come coffin'd home,
Wrench up thy power to th' highest.
Y'are fall'n into a princely hand; fear nothing.
Yare, yare, good Iras; quick. Methinks I hear
Yea, and of this our life; swearing that we
Yea, providently caters for the sparrow,
Yet I can make my audit up, that all
Yet are they passing cowardly. But, I beseech you,
Yet cam'st thou to a morsel of this feast,
Yet fortune cannot recompense me better
Yet heard too much of Phebe's cruelty.
Yet not the son; I will not call him son
Yet such is now the Duke's condition
Yet this I will not do, do how I can.
You are a thousand times a properer man
You are there follow'd by a faithful shepherd;
You are transported by calamity
You are very well met. Goddild you for your last company. I am
You cry against the noble Senate, who,
You foolish shepherd, wherefore do you follow her,
You have seen cruel proof of this man's strength; if you saw
You have, I know, petition'd all the gods
You know the cause, sir, of my standing here.
You lack a man's heart.
You laugh when boys or women tell their dreams;
You meet in some fresh cheek the power of fancy,
You must not speak of that. You must desire them
You say, if I bring in your Rosalind,
You shames of Rome! you herd of- Boils and plagues
You sooth'd not, therefore hurt not. But your people,
You were conducted to a gentle bath
You will bestow her on Orlando here?
You with your children will he send before.
You yours, Orlando, to receive his daughter;
You'll give yourself to this most faithful shepherd?
You, my good friends'- this says the belly; mark me.
You, the great toe of this assembly?
Your Grace was wont to laugh, is also missing.
Your brother is but young and tender; and, for your love, I would
Your brother- no, no brother; yet the son-
Your bugle eyeballs, nor your cheek of cream,
Your daughter and her cousin much commend
Your honour with your form.
Your knees to them, not arms, must help. Alack,
Your loss is, as yourself, great; and you bear it
Your loving motion toward the common body,
Your mistress shall be happy.
Your most grave belly was deliberate,
Your multiplying spawn how can he flatter-
Your only choice.
Your patience and your virtue well deserves it.
Your pleasure and my promise.
Your praise is come too swiftly home before you.
Your scutcheons and your signs of conquest, shall
Your suffering in this dearth, you may as well
Your sweet dependency, and you shall find
Your valour puts well forth; pray follow.
Your wisdom in the deed.
Yourself shall give us counsel. Feed and sleep.
[A shout and flourish]  Hark! the trumpets.
[Reads]  'They have press'd a power, but it is not known
[To CLEOPATRA] To Caesar I will speak what you shall please,
[To DUKE] You to your former honour I bequeath;
[To MARCIUS]  Follow Cominius; we must follow you;
[To OLIVER] You to your land, and love, and great allies
[To ORLANDO] To you I give myself, for I am yours.
[To ORLANDO] You to a love that your true faith doth merit;
[To PHEBE] I would love you if I could.- To-morrow meet me all
[To SILVIUS] You to a long and well-deserved bed;
[To TOUCHSTONE] And you to wrangling; for thy loving voyage
[To the TRIBUNES]  God save your good worships! Marcius is coming
a banished father, you must not learn me how to remember any
a beard neglected, which you have not; but I pardon you for that,
a cup of hot wine with not a drop of allaying Tiber in't; said to
a fall. But, turning these jests out of service, let us talk in
a father begot villains. Wert thou not my brother, I would not
a fool.' The heathen philosopher, when he had a desire to eat a
a foolish song. God buy you; and God mend your voices. Come,
a fosset-seller, and then rejourn the controversy of threepence
a gentleman of good conceit. I speak not this that you should
a she-lamb of a twelvemonth to crooked-pated, old, cuckoldly ram,
a very good report o' th' worm. But he that will believe all that
a woman; besides, he brings his destiny with him.
abilities are too infant-like for doing much alone. You talk of
acquainted with goldsmiths' wives, and conn'd them out of rings?
after a gilded butterfly; and when he caught it he let it go
again in affection. By mine honour, I will; and when I break that
again wonderful, and after that, out of all whooping!
again, and after it again, and over and over he comes, and up
again, catch'd it again; or whether his fall enrag'd him, or how
again? Answer me in one word.
against all patience, and, in roaring for a chamber-pot, dismiss
all the points o' th' compass.
allottery my father left me by testament; with that I will go buy
altogether misprised. But it shall not be so long; this wrestler
always the dullness of the fool is the whetstone of the wits. How
am a magician. Therefore put you in your best array, bid your
am he.
am not a woman, to be touch'd with so many giddy offences as he
am that he, that unfortunate he.
ambition, an envious emulator of every man's good parts, a secret
ambitious for poor knaves' caps and legs; you wear out a good
ambitious; nor the lawyer's, which is politic; nor the lady's,
an ape, more giddy in my desires than a monkey. I will weep for
an you'll tell me wherefore.
and I'll be married to-morrow. [To ORLANDO] I will satisfy you if
and I'll break your knave's pate.
and die a shepherd.
and fire to burn; that good pasture makes fat sheep; and that a
and fleet the time carelessly, as they did in the golden world.
and give it bountiful to the desirers. Therefore, beseech you I
and giving her them again, said with weeping tears 'Wear these
and like enough to consent. What would you say to me now, an I
and lovers are given to poetry; and what they swear in poetry may
and my heart of steel,
and my sister no sooner met but they look'd; no sooner look'd but
and parted.
and rebuke from every car that heard it.
and tell us his deeds, we are to put our tongues into those
and term, and then they perceive not how Time moves.
and the other lives merrily because he feels no pain; the one
and the rams together, and to offer to get your living by the
and thou shalt not die for lack of a dinner, if there live
and three or four loving lords have put themselves into voluntary
and tinder-like upon too trivial motion; one that converses more
and to cry like a woman; but I must comfort the weaker vessel, as
and to forswear, according as marriage binds and blood breaks. A
and under that habit play the knave with him.- Do you hear,
and villainous contriver against me his natural brother.
and weep, and thou must look pale and wonder.
and when a man thanks me heartily, methinks have given him a
and your heart both in an instant.
and, certainly, a woman's thought runs before her actions.
and, wooing, she should grant? and will you persever to enjoy
another trick, never come in my sight more.
any thing so sudden but the fight of two rams and Caesar's
any wholesome act established against the rich, and provide more
anything in this desert. Cheerly, good Adam!          Exeunt
apparel? Looks he as freshly as he did the day he wrestled?
appointed for the wrestling, and they are ready to perform it.
approbation.
are all lies: men have died from time to time, and worms have
are coming.
are dispos'd to be merry; I will laugh like a hyen, and that when
are not prisoner.
are rather point-device in your accoutrements, as loving yourself
are some brown, some black, some abram, some bald, but that our
are; neither do I labour for a greater esteem than may in some
arm's end. I will here be with the presently; and if I bring thee
as I. Besides this nothing that he so plentifully gives me, the
as foot can fall, he thinks himself too soon there.
as halfpence are; every one fault seeming monstrous till his
as lief be woo'd of a snail.
as mine is to thee.
ascent is not by such easy degrees as those who, having been
assembly but horn-beasts. But what though? Courage! As horns are
assure thee, and almost with tears I speak it, there is not one
at the casement; shut that, and 'twill out at the key-hole; stop
at the court, but you kiss your hands; that courtesy would be
away my blood, were there twenty brothers betwixt us. I have as
be chosen out of the gross band of the unfaithful. Therefore
be incontinent before marriage. They are in the very wrath of
be lam'd with reasons and the other mad without any.
be loath to foil him, as I must, for my own honour, if he come
be married.
be more jealous of thee than a Barbary cock-pigeon over his hen,
be said as lovers they do feign.
be something imperfect in favouring the first complaint, hasty
be true that good wine needs no bush, 'tis true that a good play
be wicked; and wickedness is sin, and sin is damnation. Thou art
bear a good opinion of my knowledge, insomuch I say I know you
bear with those that say you are reverend grave men, yet they lie
beards; and your beards deserve not so honourable a grave as to
been a rod to her friends. You have not indeed loved the common
before me is nearer to his reverence.
before; but come your ways.
begins my sadness. My brother Jaques he keeps at school, and
beholders take his part with weeping.
beholding; I, considering how honour would become such a person-
being ever from their cradles bred together, that she would have
being taken with the cramp, was drown'd; and the foolish
believe it; which, I warrant, she is apter to do than to confess
beloved; and, indeed, so much in the heart of the world, and
berhym'd since Pythagoras' time that I was an Irish rat, which I
best unto the purpose, it is not worth the wagging of your
better leer than you.
between party and party, if you chance to be pinch'd with the
beware my censure, and keep your promise.
bid me farewell.
bill, so wedlock would be nibbling.
birth that differs not from the stalling of an ox? His horses are
blessed? No; as a wall'd town is more worthier than a village, so
books for good manners. I will name you the degrees. The first,
branch of victory. Have you no song, forester, for this purpose?
bred better; for, besides that they are fair with their feeding,
breed it like a fool!
briers is this working-day world!
bring it for food to thee. Thy conceit is nearer death than thy
bring ourselves to be monstrous members.
brother's purpose herein, and have by underhand means laboured to
brother, Orlando, hath a disposition to come in disguis'd against
brother, and as much as in him lies, mines my gentility with my
brother, the people, to earn a dearer estimation of them; 'tis a
brothers. Your If is the only peace-maker; much virtue in If.
brow of a bachelor; and by how much defence is better than no
but as all is mortal in nature, so is all nature in love mortal
but he seeks their hate with greater devotion than they can
but in, as others do, to try with him the strength of my youth.
butter-women's rank to market.
by all pretty oaths that are not dangerous, if you break one jot
by your beards that I am a knave.
came; for look here what I found on a palm-tree. I was never so
can hardly remember.
caparison'd like a man, I have a doublet and hose in my
capricious poet, honest Ovid, was among the Goths.
case am I in then, that am neither a good epilogue, nor cannot
changeable, longing and liking, proud, fantastical, apish,
character, if I be known well enough too?
charg'd you in his will to give me good education: you have
charged my brother, on his blessing, to breed me well; and there
chastity is in them.
cheap estimation, is worth all your predecessors since Deucalion;
chests in Corioli and the gold that's in them. Is the Senate
choice is rather to have my hat than my heart, I will practise
christen'd.
chroniclers of that age found it was- Hero of Sestos. But these
cicatrices to show the people when he shall stand for his place.
clown, abandon- which is in the vulgar leave- the society- which
clown, thou perishest; or, to thy better understanding, diest;
colic, you make faces like mummers, set up the bloody flag
come again when you may.
come every day to my cote and woo me.
come.
comes here.
comes here?
comes not?
comfortable sort. If my son were my husband, I should freelier
coming to the ark. Here comes a pair of very strange beasts which
commands.
commonalty.
condition they account gentle; and since the wisdom of their
conscience' sake, to help to get thee a wife.
consenting; but say with me, I love Aliena; say with her that she
consulships?
content you?
contract of her marriage and the day it is solemniz'd; if the
copulation of cattle; to be bawd to a bell-wether, and to betray
could have taught my love to take thy father for mine; so wouldst
could to die before, and he is one of the patterns of love.
counterfeiting to him. Will you go?                   Exeunt
country is most mockable at the court. You told me you salute not
country?
coupled to beauty is to have honey a sauce to sugar.
court are as ridiculous in the country as the behaviour of the
court, shepherd?
court?
courtier's beard; he sent me word, if I said his beard was not
courtier's, which is proud; nor the soldier's, which is
cover'd.
cow's dugs that her pretty chopt hands had milk'd; and I remember
cut well, he was in the mind it was. This is call'd the Retort
danger.
daughter; and never two ladies loved as they do.
deadly that tell you you have good faces. If you see this in the
death, thy liberty into bondage. I will deal in poison with thee,
deed to have them at all, into their estimation and report; but
deer hath them as huge as the rascal. Is the single man therefore
deliver'd the matter well, when I find the ass in compound with
demonstrating a careless desolation. But you are no such man; you
deny him.
desire you to touch him, for his biting is immortal; those that
despite of my invention.
died in his own person, videlicet, in a love-cause. Troilus had
diest before I come, thou art a mocker of my labour. Well said!
diseases.
dishonest desire to desire to be a woman of the world. Here come
displeasure of the people is as bad as that which he dislikes- to
disposition, and out of his noble carelessness lets them plainly
disposition? One inch of delay more is a South Sea of discovery.
dispositions the reins, and be angry at your pleasures- at the
disputable for my company. I think of as many matters as he; but
dissuade him from it; but he is resolute. I'll tell thee,
divers persons. I'll tell you who Time ambles withal, who Time
do die of it do seldom or never recover.
do not become a man.
do. Look, here comes the Duke.
door and go along with us.
dost him any slight disgrace, or if he do not mightily grace
doublet and hose ought to show itself courageous to petticoat;
doubly.
down.
dropp'd acorn.
drunkards.
earthly, no nobler- whither do you follow your eyes so fast?
ease he is; and that he that wants money, means, and content, is
eaten them, but not for love.
education. This is it, Adam, that grieves me; and the spirit of
either too much at once or none at all. I prithee take the cork
embracements of his bed where he would show most love. When yet
emulation; nor the musician's, which is fantastical; nor the
encounter such ridiculous subjects as you are. When you speak
enough.
enterprise. We pray you, for your own sake, to embrace your own
especially of my own people, who best know him, that I am
ever I satisfied man, and you shall be married to-morrow. [To
every minute and groaning every hour would detect the lazy foot
every ten that they make the devils mar five.
exercises as may become a gentleman, or give me the poor
exile with him, whose lands and revenues enrich the new Duke;
extraordinary pleasure.
father dearly; yet I hate not Orlando.
fear of your adventure would counsel you to a more equal
feathers and fish have no fin.
feign.
fellow-fault came to match it.
fellows, and betray themselves to every modern censure worse than
fifty ways; therefore tremble and depart.
figure in rhetoric that drink, being pour'd out of cup into a
find I will most kindly requite. I had myself notice of my
first-born of Egypt.
flatter them for their love.
flatter'd the people, who ne'er loved them; and there be many
flattering tongue of yours won me. 'Tis but one cast away, and
flout at Fortune, hath not Fortune sent in this fool to cut off
flouting; we cannot hold.
fly?
fob off our disgrace with a tale. But, an't please you, deliver.
followed her exile, or have died to stay behind her. She is at
fool doth think he is wise, but the wise man knows himself to be
fool to make me merry than experience to make me sad- and to
foolery; if we walk not in the trodden paths, our very petticoats
fools have was silenced, the little foolery that wise men have
for I see love hath made thee tame snake, and say this to her-
for his verity in love, I do think him as concave as covered
for my sake.' We that are true lovers run into strange capers;
for simply your having in beard is a younger brother's revenue.
for the table than a necessary bencher in the Capitol.
for your society.
forest yield anything savage, I will either be food for it or
forester?
forswear the full stream of the world and to live in a nook
friends; for if you will be married to-morrow, you shall; and to
from many objects, and, indeed, the sundry contemplation of my
from the house I owe?
furnish'd like a beggar; therefore to beg will not become me. My
gain by you.
gain to them. Let us revenge this with our pikes ere we become
general is gone, with one part of our Roman power. Your lord and
gentleman that I have so often met in the forest. He hath been a
gentleman's saying.
gentleman-like qualities. The spirit of my father grows strong in
get you in. I will not long be troubled with you; you shall have
gifts to women.
glass, by filling the one doth empty the other; for all your
go sleep, if I can; if I cannot, I'll rail against all the
go?                                                   Exeunt
goblet or a worm-eaten nut.
good Marcius, I had rather had eleven die nobly for their country
good earnest. Is it possible, on such a sudden, you should fall
good pancakes, and swore by his honour the mustard was naught.
good plays prove the better by the help of good epilogues. What a
good sweet lady. Prithee, Virgilia, turn thy solemness out o'
good wit seconded with the forward child understanding, it
good youth, he went but forth to wash him in the Hellespont, and,
goose. But all's brave that youth mounts and folly guides. Who
got off.
grain; make edicts for usury, to support usurers; repeal daily
grape, would open his lips when he put it into his mouth; meaning
gravell'd for lack of matter, you might take occasion to kiss.
grease of a mutton as wholesome as the sweat of a man? Shallow,
great cause of the night is lack of the sun; that he that hath
great for any mouth of this age's size. To say ay and no to these
had in them more feet than the verses would bear.
had inkling this fortnight what we intend to do, which now we'll
had stay'd by him, I would not have been so fidius'd for all the
had, he had sworn it away before ever he saw those pancackes or
hang'd and carved upon these trees?
hangmen. God-den to your worships. More of your conversation
hangs the verses on the trees wherein Rosalind is so admired?
happiness through another man's eyes! By so much the more shall I
hate him manifests the true knowledge he has in their
hates nothing more than he. Yet he's gentle; never school'd and
hates them- that between you and the women the play may please.
hath generally tax'd their whole sex withal.
hath ta'en thy life by some indirect means or other; for, I
have come before.
have no money in your purse.
have not deserved nobly.
have you been all this while? You a lover! An you serve me such
have your doublet and hose pluck'd over your head, and show the
have; and, truly, when he dies thou shalt be his heir; for what
hawthorns and elegies on brambles; all, forsooth, deifying the
he durst not give me the Lie Direct; and so we measur'd swords
he hath faults, with surplus, to tire in repetition.  [Shouts
he hath so planted his honours in their eyes and his actions in
he hath taken away from thy father perforce, I will render thee
he was but tender-bodied, and the only son of my womb; when youth
he was to find fame. To a cruel war I sent him, from whence he
he waved indifferently 'twixt doing them neither good nor harm;
he would answer I spake not true. This is call'd the Reproof
he; so he laugh'd and let me go. But what talk we of fathers when
head; nay, prithee be cover'd. How old are you, friend?
health; in which time I will make a lip at the physician. The
heart.
heels. Will you sit down with me? and we two will rail against
her before your eyes to-morrow, human as she is, and without any
her?
here in the city- I mean of us o' th' right-hand file? Do you?
here, sir, amongst the rest of the country copulatives, to swear
here, where you are, they are coming to perform it.
hereafter to leave my wife.
hereafter.
him some good counsel, for he seems to have the quotidian of love
him their opposite. Now to seem to affect the malice and
him, ladies; see if you can move him.
him, now loathe him; then entertain him, then forswear him; now
him, sirrah.
him.
himself on thee, he will practise against thee by poison, entrap
himself will not eat a woman. I know that a woman is a dish for
hir'd; but I, his brother, gain nothing under him but growth; for
his brains dash'd out with a Grecian club; yet he did what he
his house on his head- a better jointure, I think, than you make
his pocket? The wounds become him.
his ribs, that there is little hope of life in him. So he serv'd
his sides? Is there yet another dotes upon rib-breaking? Shall we
his wife another; and I think there's one at home for you.
holy bread.
home I was in a better place; but travellers must be content.
home unkept; for call you that keeping for a gentleman of my
home; he has more cause to be proud. Where is he wounded?
honest.
honest; and those that she makes honest she makes very
honesty dwells like a miser, sir, in a poor house; as your pearl
honour, in giving him our own voices with our own tongues;
hope I shall see an end of him; for my soul, yet I know not why,
hour together; has such a confirm'd countenance! I saw him run
how to know a man in love; in which cage of rushes I am sure you
idle huswife with me this afternoon.
ill-favouredly.
ill-favouredly.
impossible to me, if it appear not inconvenient to you, to set
in a parlous state, shepherd.
in abundance?
in all tongues are call'd fools.
in folly.
in good earnest, nor no further in sport neither than with safety
in it, it goes much against my stomach. Hast any philosophy in
in love with my anger. If it be so, as fast as she answers thee
in that you are the first-born; but the same tradition takes not
in the boorish is company- of this female- which in the common is
in the world I fill up a place, which may be better supplied when
in this attempt; for here we have no temple but the wood, no
in your foul oyster.
in, it runs out.
in; therefore, out of my love to you, I came hither to acquaint
incline to the people, there was never a worthier man.
insinuate with you in the behalf of a good play! I am not
interim be but a se'nnight, Time's pace is so hard that it seems
into so strong a liking with old Sir Rowland's youngest son?
inventory to particularize their abundance; our sufferance is a
is call'd the Countercheck Quarrelsome. And so to the Lie
is the forehead of a married man more honourable than the bare
is, sir, I will counterfeit the bewitchment of some popular man
is, the old Duke is banished by his younger brother the new Duke;
is: the Volsces have an army forth; against whom Cominius the
it by counsel.
it is no more unhandsome than to see the lord the prologue. If it
it is not in the court, it is tedious. As it is a spare life,
it out, when your brother marries Aliena shall you marry her. I
it would do well to set the deer's horns upon his head for a
join you together as they join wainscot; then one of you will
judge.
justices could not take up a quarrel; but when the parties were
kind.
kings' entreaties, a mother should not sell him an hour from her
kiss.
knaves. You are a pair of strange ones.
knight, swearing by his honour, for he never had any; or if he
know how many fathom deep I am in love! But it cannot be sounded;
know into what straits of fortune she is driven; and it is not
know, are greasy.
know.
knowing no burden of heavy tedious penury. These Time ambles
knowledge of his chin.
lacking the burden of lean and wasteful learning, the other
ladies any thing. But let your fair eyes and gentle wishes go
ladyships, you may see the end; for the best is yet to do; and
last night.
lead thou first.
leanness that afflicts us, the object of our misery, is as an
learned no wit by nature nor art may complain of good breeding,
least, if you take it as a pleasure to you in being so. You blame
leg.                                          [They wrestle]
lest he catch cold on's feet.
letters from the general, wherein he gives my son the whole name
liberty 'twould sure southward.
lie with his mother earth?
lief have been myself alone.
liest in the bleak air. Come, I will bear thee to some shelter;
life; but in respect that it is a shepherd's life, it is nought.
like her? that but seeing you should love her? and loving woo?
lion.
little measure draw a belief from you, to do yourself good, and
little; comfort a little; cheer thyself a little. If this uncouth
longer than yesterday: a very honest woman, but something given
look you, it fits my humour well; but as there is no more plenty
lost?
love no woman, I'll meet. So, fare you well; I have left you
love of Juno, let's go.
love thee. If my uncle, thy banished father, had banished thy
love they know not why, they hate upon no better a ground.
love this maid?
love, and they will together. Clubs cannot part them.
love, his mistress; and I set him every day to woo me; at which
lover, and the most unworthy of her you call Rosalind, that may
lovers lacking- God warn us!- matter, the cleanliest shift is to
loves me; consent with both that we may enjoy each other. It
loves not the common people.
mad humour of love to a living humour of madness; which was, to
maid.
make a crooked face at it. I cannot say your worships have
make incision in thee! thou art raw.
makes a great show. Here comes Monsieur Le Beau.
mammock'd it!
man; one that knew courtship too well, for there he fell in love.
manners; if thou never saw'st good manners, then thy manners must
many, or else your actions would grow wondrous single: your
map of my microcosm, follows it that I am known well enough too?
married of him than of another; for he is not like to marry me
marry thee; and to that end I have been with Sir Oliver Martext,
matter in the ditty, yet the note was very untuneable.
matter.
matter. I am given, sir, secretly to understand that your younger
may be consul.
may.
me by will but poor a thousand crowns, and, as thou say'st,
me stay the growth of his beard, if thou delay me not the
me to try a fall. To-morrow, sir, I wrestle for my credit; and he
me who it is.
me, and I will no longer endure it; therefore allow me such
me. He lets me feed with his hinds, bars me the place of a
medlar. Then it will be the earliest fruit i' th' country; for
melancholy of mine own, compounded of many simples, extracted
men do foolishly.
men's good, content with my harm; and the greatest of my pride is
merely monastic. And thus I cur'd him; and this way will I take
merry men with him; and there they live like the old Robin Hood
met themselves, one of them thought but of an If, as: 'If you
might leave pricking it for pity. Come, you shall go with us.
minute into a thousand parts, and break but a part of the
mirth.
misplaced; and the bountiful blind woman doth most mistake in her
misprised: we will make it our suit to the Duke that the
monster of the multitude; of the which we being members should
monstrous, and for the multitude to be ingrateful were to make a
more clamorous than a parrot against rain, more new-fangled than
more of him; you'll be whipt for taxation one of these days.
more sounder instance; come.
more than he's worth to season.
morning. What I think I utter, and spend my malice in my breath.
most falliable, the worm's an odd worm.
most sovereign prescription in Galen is but empiricutic and, to
mountains may be remov'd with earthquakes, and so encounter.
much of my father in me as you, albeit I confess your coming
must also tell him our noble acceptance of them. Ingratitude is
must go visit the good lady that lies in.
my affection hath an unknown bottom, like the Bay of Portugal.
my eldest brother; and in the gentle condition of blood, you
my father, which I think is within me, begins to mutiny against
my fortunes.
my shins against it.
name of Rosalind. If I could meet that fancy-monger, I would give
neck as his finger. And thou wert best look to't; for if thou
necks, and make but an interior survey of your good selves! O
needs no epilogue. Yet to good wine they do use good bushes; and
no matter, the greater part carries it. I say, if he would
noble Marcius.
not Marcius.
not been common in my love. I will, sir, flatter my sworn
not something to eat, I will give thee leave to die; but if thou
not the gout; for the one sleeps easily because he cannot study,
not to call us the many-headed multitude.
not to grace me. Believe then, if you please, that I can do
not wounded? He was wont to come home wounded.
not; and, I am sure, as many as have good beards, or good faces,
nothing doubt prevailing and to make it brief wars. This is true,
nothing, like Diana in the fountain, and I will do that when you
now in first seeing he had proved himself a man.
now, if thou wert a poet, I might have some hope thou didst
now, wit! Whither wander you?
oath, let me turn monster; therefore, my sweet Rose, my dear
occasion will rob you of a great deal of patience. Give your
occasion, let her never nurse her child herself, for she will
odious, they are necessary. It is said: 'Many a man knows no end
of England. They say many young gentlemen flock to him every day,
of Time as well as a clock.
of a baser birth than tar- the very uncleanly flux of a cat. Mend
of a pure blush thou mayst in honour come off again.
of false reckonings. He attends here in the forest on the Duke,
of her, the small acquaintance, my sudden wooing, nor her sudden
of her.
of him that Cupid hath clapp'd him o' th' shoulder, but I'll
of him; but should I anatomize him to thee as he is, I must blush
of his goods.' Right! Many a man has good horns and knows no end
of me then- for now I speak to some purpose- that I know you are
of stairs to marriage, which they will climb incontinent, or else
of the war; he hath in this action outdone his former deeds
of them. Well, that is the dowry of his wife; 'tis none of his
of tune.
of wise people; for indeed there is no goodness in the worm.
of your husband.
of your promise, or come one minute behind your hour, I will
offenders, and let Time try. Adieu.             Exit ORLANDO
office and my name!
old men; tell me one thing that I shall ask you.
on a horse.
on mine honour; and so, I pray, go with us.
one side.
one.
or brook such disgrace well as he shall run into, in that it is
or comes of a very dull kindred.
or in bastinado, or in steel; I will bandy with thee in faction;
or sweet breaths, will, for my kind offer, when I make curtsy,
or, to wit, I kill thee, make thee away, translate thy life into
ordinary that the whippers are in love too. Yet I profess curing
our better mirth.
our mistress the world, and all our misery.
out of a song, as a weasel sucks eggs. More, I prithee, more.
out of all reasonable match. If thou beest not damn'd for this,
out of love with your nativity, and almost chide God for making
out of thy mouth that I may drink thy tidings.
out of thy mouth, as wine comes out of narrow-mouth'd bottle-
out upon thee, hind!
out- let him be judge how deep I am in love. I'll tell thee,
own getting. Horns? Even so. Poor men alone? No, no; the noblest
pack-saddle. Yet you must be saying Marcius is proud; who, in a
pardon.
particulars is more than to answer in a catechism.
partly proud, which he is, even to the altitude of his virtue.
passion something and for no passion truly anything, as boys and
patience, good people.'
penny, and he renders me the beggarly thanks. Come, sing; and you
people.
people.
perfum'd with civet.
peril on his forwardness.
piece of flesh indeed! Learn of the wise, and perpend: civet is
piercing statutes daily to chain up and restrain the poor. If the
plants with carving 'Rosalind' on their barks; hangs odes upon
pleas'd me, complexions that lik'd me, and breaths that I defied
plebeians. I will be bold to take my leave of you.
politic with my friend, smooth with mine enemy; I have undone
poor hands.
poor humour of mine, sir, to take that that man else will. Rich
poor unworthy brother of yours, with idleness.
poor virgin, sir, an ill-favour'd thing, sir, but mine own; a
possess'd her.
possess'd of this?
power that we have no power to do; for if he show us his wounds
powers. For my sake be comfortable; hold death awhile at the
prayers; but I cannot go thither.
presentation of that he shoots his wit:
pretty boy. O' my troth, I look'd upon him a Wednesday half an
price. Is't a verdict?
pride. O that you could turn your eyes toward the napes of your
priest that can tell you what marriage is; this fellow will but
prodigal portion have I spent that I should come to such penury?
proper?
propositions of a lover; but take a taste of my finding him, and
protest, her frown might kill me.
proud, violent, testy magistrates-alias fools- as any in Rome.
prove a shrunk panel, and like green timber warp, warp.
prove; my friends told me as much, and I thought no less. That
purchasing.
rakes; for the gods know I speak this in hunger for bread, not in
rascally boy, that abuses every one's eyes, because his own are
rejoice in that absence wherein he won honour than in the
rejoice in yours.
relish it with good observance. I found him under a tree, like a
remains he? How parted he with thee? And when shalt thou see him
remedy.
remembrance, be at accord.
render it him, and leaves nothing undone that may fully discover
renown made it not stir- was pleas'd to let him seek danger where
report for't but that he pays himself with being proud.
report speaks goldenly of his profit. For my part, he keeps me
requests by particulars, wherein every one of us has a single
respect it is in the fields, it pleaseth me well; but in respect
respect that it is private, it is a very vile life. Now in
return'd his brows bound with oak. I tell thee, daughter, I
right.
risen. Why stay we prating here? To th' Capitol!
rustically at home, or, to speak more properly, stays me here at
sad. I fear you have sold your own lands to see other men's; then
sadness.
safety and give over this attempt.
said so, then I said so.' And they shook hands, and swore
say you?
second, that have so mightily persuaded him from a first.
see the wrestling?
see this wrestling, cousin?
see't.
seeming, Audrey- as thus, sir. I did dislike the cut of a certain
send me word he cut it to please himself. This is call'd the Quip
seventh cause.
shadow, and sigh till he come.
shall be to your good; for my father's house and all the revenue
shall clear all. Nothing remains but that I kindle the boy
shall flout me out of my calling.                       Exit
shall think my brother happy in having what he wishes for.
shallow, inconstant, full of tears, full of smiles; for every
shallow. A better instance, I say; come.
sham'd that was never gracious; if kill'd, but one dead that is
she died of the biting of it, what pain she felt- truly she makes
she does. That is one of the points in the which women still give
she spun in Ulysses' absence did but fill Ithaca full of moths.
sheep; and would you have us kiss tar? The courtier's hands are
should so know me. The courtesy of nations allows you my better
should think my honesty ranker than my wit.
show 'em in deeds. They say poor suitors have strong breaths;
sick. There is a man haunts the forest that abuses our young
sir, and my name is Dromio.
sir; and words are but wind;
sister, you shall be the priest, and marry us. Give me your hand,
skill, by so much is horn more precious than to want. Here comes
sleeve unbutton'd, your shoe untied, and every thing about you
sluttishness may come hereafter. But be it as it may be, I will
so much were a kind of ingrateful injury; to report otherwise
so removed a dwelling.
so young and so villainous this day living. I speak but brotherly
so, come death! Two o'clock is your hour?
some part of your will. I pray you leave me.
something that nature gave me his countenance seems to take from
son?
sons, each in my love alike, and none less dear than thine and my
south, and their consent of one direct way should be at once to
spitting, or saying we are hoarse, which are the only prologues
sprang not more in joy at first hearing he was a man-child than
spurs his horse but on one side, breaks his staff like a noble
stands, by ones, by twos, and by threes. He's to make his
strains upon thee! Not to be endur'd! Well, go your way to her,
strange suits, disable all the benefits of your own country, be
strange things. I have, since I was three year old, convers'd
strikes a man more dead than a great reckoning in a little room.
stronger than the word of a tapster; they are both the confirmer
stuff a botcher's cushion or to be entomb'd in an ass's
such a woman? What, to make thee an instrument, and play false
such a word.
such fruit.
such goddesses, and hath sent this natural for our whetstone; for
suppers, and sleeping hours, excepted. It is the right
supple and courteous to the people, bonneted, without any further
swam in a gondola. [Exit JAQUES] Why, how now, Orlando! where
swear by that that not, you are not forsworn; no more was this
sword upon a stone, and bid him take that for coming a-night to
ta'en his bow and arrows, and is gone forth- to sleep. Look, who
take her without her answer, unless you take her without her
take this hand from thy throat till this other had pull'd out thy
than one voluptuously surfeit out of action.
than seeming the lover of any other.
that escapes me without some broken limb shall acquit him well.
that ever I heard breaking of ribs was sport for ladies.
that if she love me, I charge her to love thee; if she will not,
that it was no better than picture-like to hang by th' wall, if
that mustard.
that there shall not be one spot of love in 't.
that they call compliment is like th' encounter of two dog-apes;
that they have loved, they know not wherefore; so that, if they
that was old Sir Rowland's will I estate upon you, and here live
that will not, hold your tongues.
that you could!
that, 'twill fly with the smoke out at the chimney.
thatch'd house!
the Retort Courteous; the second, the Quip Modest; the third, the
the argument?
the controversy bleeding, the more entangled by your hearing. All
the court, and no less beloved of her uncle than his own
the devil himself will have no shepherds; I cannot see else how
the falcon her bells, so man hath his desires; and as pigeons
the feeding.
the forest, like fringe upon a petticoat.
the forest.
the gods, if the devil dress her not. But truly, these same
the ground.
the insinuating nod and be off to them most counterfeitly. That
the instance, shepherd.
the length of seven year.
the lie to their consciences. But, in good sooth, are you he that
the major part of your syllables; and though I must be content to
the oaken garland.
the peace you make in their cause is calling both the parties
the people.
the second, and so the third. Yonder they lie; the poor old man,
the seventh cause?
the seventh, the Lie Direct. All these you may avoid but the Lie
the slander of his wife.
the vicar of the next village, who hath promis'd to meet me in
the waywarder. Make the doors upon a woman's wit, and it will out
the which his animals on his dunghills are as much bound to him
the wooing of  peascod instead of her; from whom I took two cods,
thee by some treacherous device, and never leave thee till he
thee, shepherd?
thee.
their barks.
their father, making such pitiful dole over them that all the
their hearts that for their tongues to be silent and not confess
there is such a man as Orlando?
there is such odds in the man. In pity of the challenger's youth
thereby that grapes were made to eat and lips to open. You do
therefore follow me, and I'll direct you how you shall go by him.
therefore he gives them good leave to wander.
therefore, courage, good Aliena.
these presents'-
they are maids, but the sky changes when they are wives. I will
they are not so punish'd and cured is that the lunacy is so
they are taught their manage, and to that end riders dearly
they ask'd one another the reason; no sooner knew the reason but
they lov'd; no sooner lov'd but they sigh'd; no sooner sigh'd but
they relieved us humanely; but they think we are too dear. The
they say shall never be saved by half that they do. But this is
they shall know we have strong arms too.
they sought the remedy- and in these degrees have they made pair
thing of his own search and altogether against my will.
think you the most pathetical break-promise, and the most hollow
thirst for revenge.
this place of the forest, and to couple us.
this play as please you; and I charge you, O men, for the love
this preservative, of no better report than a horse-drench. Is he
this servitude. I will no longer endure it, though yet I know no
this was well counterfeited. I pray you tell your brother how
thither, which now I'll go about.                       Exit
thou are inclin'd to sleep.
thou could'st stammer, that thou mightst pour this conceal'd man
thou look'st cheerly; and I'll be with thee quickly. Yet thou
thou shouldst scape.
thou, if the truth of thy love to me were so righteously temper'd
though not with bag and baggage, yet with scrip and scrippage.
though peradventure some of the best of 'em were hereditary
thought, conceiv'd of spleen, and born of madness; that blind
thousand part of a minute in the affairs of love, it may be said
thousand years old, and in all this time there was not any man
thrasonical brag of 'I came, saw, and overcame.' For your brother
three tailors; I have had four quarrels, and like to have fought
throw some of them at me; come, lame me with reasons.
thy heart in a scarf!
till my lord return from the wars.
time would I, being but a moonish youth, grieve, be effeminate,
time.
to a bad voice?
to a second day of audience. When you are hearing a matter
to have seen much and to have nothing is to have rich eyes and
to lament me; the world no injury, for in it I have nothing; only
to lie, as a woman should not do but in the way of honesty; how
to put good meat into an unclean dish.
to see my ewes graze and my lambs suck.
to that end; though soft-conscienc'd men can be content to say it
to the charge of women?
to the nuptial. But, O, how bitter a thing it is to look into
to you.
to-morrow I'll give him his payment. If ever he go alone again,
to-morrow be at the height of heart-heaviness, by how much I
to-morrow the wrestling is.
together. [ To PHEBE ] I will marry you if ever I marry woman,
tongue for saying so. Thou has rail'd on thyself.
tongue. O, that woman that cannot make her fault her husband's
train'd me like a peasant, obscuring and hiding from me all
travel for it too.
travels; in which my often rumination wraps me in a most humorous
traverse, athwart the heart of his lover; as a puny tilter, that
trots withal, who Time gallops withal, and who he stands still
troubled with unruly boys.
true lover, hence, and not a word; for here comes more company.
turn'd nun, if it had not been for a hot midsummer night; for,
two of the banish'd Duke's pages.
uncle of mine taught me to speak, who was in his youth an inland
uncle, the Duke my father, so thou hadst been still with me, I
uncleanly if courtiers were shepherds.
under a bush, like a beggar? Get you to church and have a good
under this tree, or shall we go with you to your chapel?
unseasonably. He was furnish'd like a hunter.
up.                                           [ADAM retires]
upon him.
upon him.
upon his schoolmaster.
upon me to wash your liver as clean as a sound sheep's heart,
us but the superfluity while it were wholesome, we might guess
us.
very glad to see you. Even a toy in hand here, sir. Nay; pray be
vice in him. You must in no way say he is covetous.
virtue of the medlar.
voices that I may be consul, I have here the customary gown.
warrant him heart-whole.
wars eat us not up, they will; and there's all the love they bear
was for his country, he did it to please his mother and to be
was good, and yet was not the knight forsworn.
way is to conjure you; and I'll begin with the women. I charge
we that have good wits have much to answer for: we shall be
wear; owe no man hate, envy no man's happiness; glad of other
weary of you.
weep for him, then spit at him; that I drave my suitor from his
well I counterfeited. Heigh-ho!
well a dark house and a whip as madmen do; and the reason why
well; and not being well married, it will be a good excuse for me
were a malice that, giving itself the lie, would pluck reproof
were to issue out of one skull, they would fly east, west, north,
were your very very Rosalind?
what you will, I will grant it.
wheel, that her gifts may henceforth be bestowed equally.
when he show'd me your handkercher?
wherein I confess me much guilty to deny so fair and excellent
which is nice; nor the lover's, which is all these; but it is a
which you have not; an unquestionable spirit, which you have not;
whither wilt?' ROSALIND. Nay, you might keep that check for it, till you met your
wholesome forenoon in hearing a cause between an orange-wife and
whom I know most faults.
whoreson devils do the gods great harm in their women, for in
wife's wit going to your neighbour's bed.
will be your Rosalind in a more coming-on disposition; and ask me
will catch them.
will drink under this tree. He hath been all this day to look
will make much of your voices, and so trouble you no farther.
will o'er-run thee with policy; I will kill thee a hundred and
will serve; for once we stood up about the corn, he himself stuck
will- 'tis strongly wedg'd up in a block-head; but if it were at
willing to be so. I shall do my friends no wrong, for I have none
winter's sisterhood kisses not more religiously; the very ice of
wise remedy how to avoid it.
with a magician, most profound in his art and yet not damnable.
with begging.
with comeliness pluck'd all gaze his way; when, for a day of
with frowning looks, I'll sauce her with bitter words. Why look
with her father?
with me to my trial; wherein if I be foil'd there is but one
with the buttock of the night than with the forehead of the
with thee again.
withal.
withal.
within]  What shouts are these? The other side o' th' city is
without the verse, and therefore stood lamely in the verse.
without three good friends; that the property of rain is to wet,
wits are so diversely colour'd; and truly I think if all our wits
wolves against the moon. [To SILVIUS] I will help you if I can.
woman- which together is: abandon the society of this female; or,
women are for the most part cattle of this colour; would now like
word? Is it a true thing?
words, swears brave oaths, and breaks them bravely, quite
world what the bird hath done to her own nest.
world; here comes the man you mean.
would have found issue. Hear me profess sincerely: had I a dozen
would infect my brain, being the herdsmen of the beastly
would you yet I were merrier? Unless you could teach me to forget
wounds and speak for them; so, if he tell us his noble deeds, we
wrestler; which Charles in a moment threw him, and broke three of
wrestling might not go forward.
wrestling, which you have lost the sight of.
writers do consent that ipse is he; now, you are not ipse, for I
yet I should bear no cross if I did bear you; for I think you
yet it is not; it is but so so. Art thou wise?
yet learned; full of noble device; of all sorts enchantingly
yet. Suffer us to famish, and their storehouses cramm'd with
you and prepare Aliena; for, look you, here comes my Rosalind.
you bear to women- as I perceive by your simp'ring none of you
you have studied your questions.
you our voices heartily.
you sewing here? A fine spot, in good faith. How does your little
you shall be married to-morrow. [To ORLANDO] As you love
you shall tell me where in the forest you live. Will you go?
you sing?
you so upon me?
you that countenance you are; or I will scarce think you have
you wearied your parishioners withal, and never cried 'Have
you withal, that either you might stay him from his intendment,
you'll be rotten ere you be half ripe, and that's the right
you, O women, for the love you bear to men, to like as much of
you, which shall be yours in private. Your good voice, sir; what
you.
you.
you.
young man and an old in solemn talk.
your complexion that it was a passion of earnest.
your father.
your rankness, and yet give no thousand crowns neither. Holla,
your service. God be with my old master! He would not have spoke
your wives for; but he comes armed in his fortune, and prevents
yourself with them?
yourself with your eyes, or knew yourself with your judgment, the
cast up their caps and lances. COMINIUS and LARTIUS stand bare
melted away with rotten dews, the fourth would return for
"Tis dinner time' quoth I; 'My gold!' quoth he.
'I know' quoth he 'no house, no wife, no mistress.'
'My mistress, sir,' quoth I; 'Hang up thy mistress;
'The pig' quoth I 'is burn'd'; 'My gold!' quoth he.
'Tis double wrong to truant with your bed
'Tis holy sport to be a little vain
'Tis so, I am an ass; else it could never be
'Tis time, I think, to trudge, pack and be gone.
'Twixt thy seditious countrymen and us,
'Where is the thousand marks I gave thee, villain?'
'Will you come home?' quoth I; 'My gold!' quoth he.
'Your meat doth burn' quoth I; 'My gold!' quoth he.
A CITIZEN of Antium
A ROMAN HERALD
A back-friend, a shoulder-clapper, one that countermands
A chain, a chain. Do you not hear it ring?
A charitable duty of my order;
A devil in an everlasting garment hath him;
A doubtful warrant of immediate death;
A drop of water in the breaking gulf,
A fiend, a fairy, pitiless and rough;
A hound that runs counter, and yet draws dry-foot well;
A husband's office? Shall, Antipholus,
A joyful mother of two goodly sons;
A league from Epidamnum had we sail'd
A living dead man. This pernicious slave,
A man is master of his liberty;
A mean woman was delivered
A mere anatomy, a mountebank,
A most outrageous fit of madness took him,
A needy, hollow-ey'd, sharp-looking wretch,
A nut, a cherry-stone;
A person representing HYMEN
A ring he hath of mine worth forty ducats,
A rush, a hair, a drop of blood, a pin,
A sin prevailing much in youthful men
A sunny look of his would soon repair.
A table full of welcome makes scarce one dainty dish.
A threadbare juggler, and a fortune-teller,
A vulgar comment will be made of it,
A wolf, nay worse, a fellow all in buff;
A wretched soul, bruis'd with adversity,
ADAM,   servant to Oliver
ADAM. But do not so. I have five hundred crowns,
ADAM. Dear master, I can go no further. O, I die for food! Here lie
ADAM. Is 'old dog' my reward? Most true, I have lost my teeth in
ADAM. Master, go on; and I will follow the
ADAM. No matter whither, so you come not here.
ADAM. O unhappy youth!
ADAM. So had you need;
ADAM. What, my young master? O my gentle master!
ADAM. Yonder comes my master, your brother.
ADAM. [Coming forward] Sweet masters, be patient; for your father's
ADRIAN, a Volscian
AGRIPPA. A rarer spirit never
AGRIPPA. And strange it is
ALL. A heavy sight!
ALL. Caius Marcius Coriolanus!
ALL. Come, come.
ALL. Content, content.                         Exeunt citizens
ALL. Dolabella!
ALL. Farewell.                                           Exeunt
ALL. No more talking on't; let it be done. Away, away!
ALL. Resolv'd, resolv'd.
ALL. Slain, sir, doubtless.
ALL. Speak, speak.
ALL. The gods assist you!
ALL. To th' pot, I warrant him.             [Alarum continues]
ALL. We know't, we know't.
ALL. Welcome to Rome, renowned Coriolanus!
AMIENS, lord attending on the banished Duke
AMIENS.    Under the greenwood tree
AMIENS. And I'll go seek the Duke; his banquet is prepar'd.
AMIENS. And I'll sing it.
AMIENS. Happy is your Grace,
AMIENS. It will make you melancholy, Monsieur Jaques.
AMIENS. More at your request than to please myself.
AMIENS. My voice is ragged; I know I cannot please you.
AMIENS. Well, I'll end the song. Sirs, cover the while; the Duke
AMIENS. What you will, Monsieur Jaques.
AMIENS. What's that 'ducdame'?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Come on, sir knave, have done your foolishness,
ANTONY. Gentle, hear me:
ANTONY. I am dying, Egypt, dying.
ANTONY. One word, sweet queen:
ANTONY. The miserable change now at my end
AUDREY, a country wench
AUDREY. Ay, I know who 'tis; he hath no interest in me in the
AUDREY. Do you wish, then, that the gods had made me poetical?
AUDREY. Do, good William.
AUDREY. Faith, the priest was good enough, for all the old
AUDREY. God ye good ev'n, William.
AUDREY. I am not a slut, though I thank the gods I am foul.
AUDREY. I do desire it with all my heart; and I hope it is no
AUDREY. I do not know what 'poetical' is. Is it honest in deed and
AUDREY. Well, I am not fair; and therefore I pray the gods make me
AUDREY. Well, the gods give us joy!
AUDREY. Would you not have me honest?
AUDREY. Your features! Lord warrant us! What features?
AUFIDIUS. And keep your honours safe!
AUFIDIUS. Bolder, though not so subtle. My valour's poison'd
AUFIDIUS. Condition!
AUFIDIUS. I am attended at the cypress grove; I pray you-
AUFIDIUS. If I fly, Marcius,
AUFIDIUS. Is it not yours?
AUFIDIUS. Nor did you think it folly
AUFIDIUS. O, doubt not that!
AUFIDIUS. The town is ta'en.
AUFIDIUS. We hate alike:
AUFIDIUS. Wert thou the Hector
Abetting him to thwart me in my mood!
According to the statute of the town,
After his brother, and importun'd me
After so long grief, such nativity!
After you first forswore it on the mart;
Again, if any Syracusian born
Against my crown, my oath, my dignity,
Against my soul's pure truth why labour you
Against the laws and statutes of this town,
Against thee presently, if thou dar'st stand.
Against your yet ungalled estimation
Ah, do not tear away thyself from me;
Alas, poor women! make us but believe,
Albeit my wrongs might make one wiser mad.
All these old witnesses-I cannot err-
Alone, it was the subject of my theme;
Am I your man? Am I myself?
Am better than thy dear self's better part.
Among my wife and her confederates,
An if the wind blow any way from shore,
And Dromio my man did bring them me.
And I denied to enter in my house?
And I to thee engag'd a prince's word,
And I was ta'en for him, and he for me,
And I will please you what you will demand.
And I'll be gone, sir, and not trouble you.
And I, to blame, have held him here too long.
And Lapland sorcerers inhabit here.
And afterward consort you till bed time.
And all that are assembled in this place
And all the conduits of my blood froze up,
And art confederate with a damned pack
And as a bed I'll take them, and there he;
And at her heels a huge infectious troop
And bear him home for his recovery.
And bid the Lady Abbess come to me,
And break it with a deep-divorcing vow?
And bring thy master home immediately.
And buy a rope's end; that will I bestow
And by me, had not our hap been bad.
And by the doom of death end woes and all.
And careful hours with time's deformed hand
And charg'd him with a thousand marks in gold,
And doubt not, sir, but she will well excuse
And draw within the compass of suspect
And dwell upon your grave when you are dead;
And ever, as it blaz'd, they threw on him
And every one doth call me by my name.
And fashion your demeanour to my looks,
And feeds from home; poor I am but his stale.
And fetch the chain; by this I know 'tis made.
And for the same he promis'd me a chain;
And for what cause thou cam'st to Ephesus.
And from my false hand cut the wedding-ring,
And from the mart he's somewhere gone to dinner;
And gain a husband by his liberty.
And gazing in mine eyes, feeling my pulse,
And go indeed, having so good a mean.
And happy were I in my timely death,
And hear at large discoursed all our fortunes;
And here the Abbess shuts the gates on us,
And here we wander in illusions.
And hurl the name of husband in my face,
And ill it doth beseem your holiness
And in a dark and dankish vault at home
And in despite of mirth mean to be merry.
And in his company that gentleman.
And in our sight they three were taken up
And in that glorious supposition think
And in the instant that I met with you
And in this mist at all adventures go.
And is not that your bondman Dromio?
And it shall privilege him from your hands
And left the ship, then sinking-ripe, to us;
And let her read it in thy looks at board;
And let us to the Tiger all to dinner;
And live; if no, then thou art doom'd to die.
And make a common of my serious hours.
And many such-like liberties of sin;
And me they left with those of Epidamnum.
And much different from the man he was;
And never rise until my tears and prayers
And now he's there, past thought of human reason.
And now let's go hand in hand, not one before another.
And passed sentence may not be recall'd
And pay the sum that may deliver me.
And piteous plainings of the pretty babes,
And prays that you will hie you home to dinner.
And show'd me silks that he had bought for me,
And shrive you of a thousand idle pranks.
And since I have not much importun'd you;
And so of these. Which is the natural man,
And so tell your master.
And soon and safe arrived where I was.
And soon at supper-time I'll visit you,
And speak unto the same Aemilia!
And stay there, Dromio, till I come to thee.
And strike you home without a messenger.
And sure, unless you send some present help,
And take perforce my husband from the Abbess.
And take unmingled thence that drop again
And teach your ears to list me with more heed.
And tear the stain'd skin off my harlot-brow,
And tell his wife that, being lunatic,
And tell me how thou hast dispos'd thy charge.
And that I did deny my wife and house.
And that is false thou dost report to us.
And that shall bail me; hie thee, slave, be gone.
And that supposed by the common rout
And that this body, consecrate to thee,
And that to-morrow you will bring it home.
And the great care of goods at random left,
And the twin Dromio, all were taken up;
And then go to my inn and dine with me?
And then receive my money for the chain.
And then return and sleep within mine inn;
And then you fled into this abbey here,
And then, sir, she bears away. Our fraughtage, sir,
And therefore 'tis high time that I were hence.
And therefore homeward did they bend their course.
And therefore let me have him home with me.
And thereof comes it that his head is light.
And thereupon I drew my sword on you,
And thereupon these ERRORS are arose.
And therewithal took measure of my body.
And these two Dromios, one in semblance-
And this fair gentlewoman, her sister here,
And this is false you burden me withal.
And this it was, for other means was none:
And to thy state of darkness hie thee straight.
And told thee to what purpose and what end.
And told'st me of a mistress and a dinner;
And wander up and down to view the city.
And we shall make full satisfaction.
And what's a fever but a fit of madness?
And which the spirit? Who deciphers them?
And why dost thou deny the bag of gold?
And will have no attorney but myself;
And will not lightly trust the messenger.
And will not suffer us to fetch him out,
And with his mad attendant and himself,
And with no face, as 'twere, outfacing me,
And with you take the chain, and bid my wife
And would have reft the fishers of their prey,
And yet would herein others' eyes were worse.
And you the calendars of their nativity,
And, I think, if my breast had not been made of faith,
And, about evening, come yourself alone
And, by the benefit of his wished light,
And, coasting homeward, came to Ephesus;
And, floating straight, obedient to the stream,
And, knowing how the debt grows, I will pay it.
And, knowing whom it was their hap to save,
And, not being able to buy out his life,
And, not without some scandal to yourself,
And, which was strange, the one so like the other
And, yielding to him, humours well his frenzy.
Anon, I wot not by what strong escape,
Anon, I'm sure, the Duke himself in person
Antipholus, thou cam'st from Corinth first?
Apparel vice like virtue's harbinger;
Are masters to their females, and their lords;
Are my discourses dull? Barren my wit?
Are penitent for your default to-day.
Are their males' subjects, and at their controls.
Are you a god? Would you create me new?
Arrest me, foolish fellow, if thou dar'st.
As all the metal in your shop will answer.
As could not be disdnguish'd but by names.
As if I were their well-acquainted friend;
As much, or more, we should ourselves complain.
As strange unto your town as to your talk,
As take from me thyself, and not me too.
As this is false he burdens me withal!
As you love strokes, so jest with me again.
As, nimble jugglers that deceive the eye,
At board, he fed not for my urging it;
At eighteen years became inquisitive
At length another ship had seiz'd on us;
At length the sun, gazing upon the earth,
At your important letters-this ill day
Ay, and break it in your face, so he break it not behind.
BOTH CITIZENS. The gods give you joy, sir, heartily!
BOTH TRIBUNES. Well, sir.
BOTH TRIBUNES. Well, well, sir, well.
BOTH TRIBUNES. What then, sir?
BOTH TRIBUNES. Why, how are we censur'd?
BRUTUS. 'Tis most like he will.
BRUTUS. All tongues speak of him and the bleared sights
BRUTUS. And topping all others in boasting.
BRUTUS. Being mov'd, he will not spare to gird the gods.
BRUTUS. Come, come, you are well understood to be a perfecter giber
BRUTUS. Come, sir, come, we know you well enough.
BRUTUS. Come, we'll inform them
BRUTUS. Come.
BRUTUS. Fame, at the which he aims-
BRUTUS. Good or bad?
BRUTUS. He has no equal.
BRUTUS. He's a lamb indeed, that baes like a bear.
BRUTUS. He's poor in no one fault, but stor'd with all.
BRUTUS. I heard him swear,
BRUTUS. In that there's comfort.
BRUTUS. It was his word. O, he would miss it rather
BRUTUS. Let's along.                                    Exeunt
BRUTUS. Let's to the Capitol,
BRUTUS. Mark you that?
BRUTUS. Mark'd you his lip and eyes?
BRUTUS. Most willingly.
BRUTUS. Sir, I hope
BRUTUS. So it must fall out
BRUTUS. The present wars devour him! He is grown
BRUTUS. Then our office may
BRUTUS. We do it not alone, sir.
BRUTUS. What's the matter?
BRUTUS. Which the rather
BRUTUS. You see how he intends to use the people.
Be it for nothing but to spite my wife-
Be it my wrong you are from me exempt,
Be mad, good master; cry 'The devil!'
Be not thy tongue thy own shame's orator;
Be rul'd by me: depart in patience,
Be secret-false. What need she be acquainted?
Be seen at any Syracusian marts and fairs;
Bear a fair presence, though your heart be tainted;
Bear me forthwith unto his creditor,
Beaten the maids a-row and bound the doctor,
Before herself, almost at fainting under
Before the always-wind-obeying deep
Beg thou, or borrow, to make up the sum,
Beheaded publicly for his offence.
Behind the ditches of the abbey here.
Being compact of credit, that you love us;
Being forbid? There, take you that, sir knave.
Being strumpeted by thy contagion.
Belike his wife, acquainted with his fits,
Belike you thought our love would last too long,
Beshrew his hand, I scarce could understand it.
Beside the charge, the shame, imprisonment,
Besides her urging of her wreck at sea-
Besides this present instance of his rage,
Besides, I have some business in the town.
Better cheer may you have, but not with better heart.
Between them they will kill the conjurer.
Between you I shall have a holy head.
Beyond imagination is the wrong
Bind Dromio too, and bear them to my house.
Blows fair from land; they stay for nought at an
Both by the Syracusians and ourselves,
Both one and other he denies me now.
Both wind and tide stays for this gentleman,
Bring it, I pray you, to the Porpentine;
Buried some dear friend? Hath not else his eye
But I confess, sir, that we were lock'd out.
But I pray, sir, why am I beaten?
But I protest he had the chain of me,
But I should know her as well as she knows me.
But by and by rude fishermen of Corinth
But creep in crannies when he hides his beams.
But ere they came-O, let me say no more!
But for their owner, master, and yourself.
But hath his bound, in earth, in sea, in sky.
But he's in a suit of buff which 'rested him, that can I tell.
But he, I thank him, gnaw'd in two my cords
But here must end the story of my life;
But here's a villain that would face me down
But if that I am I, then well I know
But if thou live to see like right bereft,
But longer did we not retain much hope,
But moody and dull melancholy,
But neither chain nor goldsmith came to me.
But not a thousand marks between you both.
But she tells to your Highness simple truth!
But she, more covetous, would have a chain.
But surely, master, not a rag of money.
But tell me yet, dost thou not know my voice?
But this I think, there's no man is so vain
But though my cates be mean, take them in good part;
But though thou art adjudged to the death,
But till this afternoon his passion
But to our honour's great disparagement,
But to procrastinate his lifeless end.
But we, that know what 'tis to fast and pray,
But were we burd'ned with like weight of pain,
But with these nails I'll pluck out these false eyes
But wrong not that wrong with a more contempt.
But, lest myself be guilty to self-wrong,
But, like a shrew, you first begin to brawl.
But, sirrah, you shall buy this sport as dear
But, soft, I see the goldsmith. Get thee gone;
But, soft, my door is lock'd; go bid them let us in.
But, sure, he is stark mad.
But, too unruly deer, he breaks the pale,
Buy thou a rope, and bring it home to me.
By Dromio here, who came in haste for it.
By Dromio; but I think he brought it not.
By computation and mine host's report
By falsehood and corruption doth it shame.
By fishermen of Corinth, as we thought.
By force took Dromio and my son from them,
By him not ruin'd? Then is he the ground
By prosperous voyages I often made
By ruffian lust should be contaminate!
By rushing in their houses, bearing thence
By th' way we met my wife, her sister, and a rabble more
By the wrongs I suffer and the blows I bear.
CAESAR. Arise, you shall not kneel.
CAESAR. Bid her have good heart.
CAESAR. Bravest at the last,
CAESAR. Cleopatra,
CAESAR. Cleopatra, know
CAESAR. Come hither, Proculeius. Go and say
CAESAR. Forbear, Seleucus.                       Exit SELEUCUS
CAESAR. Gallus, go you along.                      Exit GALLUS
CAESAR. Go to him, Dolabella, bid him yield;
CAESAR. Good Queen, let us entreat you.
CAESAR. Let him alone, for I remember now
CAESAR. Look you sad, friends?
CAESAR. Most probable
CAESAR. Nay, blush not, Cleopatra; I approve
CAESAR. Not so. Adieu.
CAESAR. O Antony,
CAESAR. O noble weakness!
CAESAR. Poison'd then.
CAESAR. Take to you no hard thoughts.
CAESAR. The breaking of so great a thing should make
CAESAR. What is't thou say'st?
CAESAR. Wherefore is that? And what art thou that dar'st
CAESAR. Which is the Queen of Egypt?
CAESAR. You shall advise me in all for Cleopatra.
CAIUS MARCIUS, afterwards CAIUS MARCIUS CORIOLANUS
CELIA, daughter to Frederick
CELIA.   'Why should this a desert be?
CELIA. 'Tis true; for those that she makes fair she scarce makes
CELIA. 'Was' is not 'is'; besides, the oath of a lover is no
CELIA. Alas, he is too young; yet he looks successfully.
CELIA. Alas, poor shepherd!
CELIA. All the better; we shall be the more marketable. Bon jour,
CELIA. An excellent colour: your chestnut was ever the only colour.
CELIA. And I'll sleep.                                  Exeunt
CELIA. And a chain, that you once wore, about his neck.
CELIA. And mine to eke out hers.
CELIA. And we will mend thy wages. I like this place,
CELIA. Are you his brother?
CELIA. As good cause as one would desire; therefore weep.
CELIA. Ay. Fare you well, fair gentleman.
CELIA. But didst thou hear without wondering how thy name should be
CELIA. But is all this for your father?
CELIA. By my troth, thou sayest true; for since the little wit that
CELIA. By our beards, if we had them, thou art.
CELIA. Call him hither, good Monsieur Le Beau.
CELIA. Come, come, wrestle with thy affections.
CELIA. Come, you look paler and paler; pray you draw homewards.
CELIA. Cry 'Holla' to thy tongue, I prithee; it curvets
CELIA. Dear sovereign, hear me speak.
CELIA. Didst thou hear these verses?
CELIA. Do, I prithee; but yet have the grace to consider that tears
CELIA. Doth it therefore ensue that you should love his son dearly?
CELIA. Gentle cousin,
CELIA. Give me audience, good madam.
CELIA. Go to. Will you, Orlando, have to wife this Rosalind?
CELIA. He hath bought a pair of cast lips of Diana. A nun of
CELIA. He'll go along o'er the wide world with me;
CELIA. Hem them away.
CELIA. Herein I see thou lov'st me not with the full weight that I
CELIA. How now! Back, friends; shepherd, go off a little; go with
CELIA. How prove you that, in the great heap of your knowledge?
CELIA. I cannot say the words.
CELIA. I could match this beginning with an old tale.
CELIA. I did not then entreat to have her stay;
CELIA. I pray thee, Rosalind, sweet my coz, be merry.
CELIA. I pray you bear with me; I cannot go no further.
CELIA. I pray you, one of you question yond man
CELIA. I pray you, tell it.
CELIA. I warrant you, with pure love and troubled brain, he hath
CELIA. I would I were invisible, to catch the strong fellow by the
CELIA. I would sing my song without a burden; thou bring'st me out
CELIA. I' faith, coz, 'tis he.
CELIA. I'll put myself in poor and mean attire,
CELIA. If I had a thunderbolt in mine eye, I can tell who should
CELIA. Is it possible?
CELIA. It is as easy to count atomies as to resolve the
CELIA. It is no boast, being ask'd, to say we are.
CELIA. It is young Orlando, that tripp'd up the wrestler's heels
CELIA. It pleases him to call you so; but he hath a Rosalind of a
CELIA. Let us sit and mock the good housewife Fortune from her
CELIA. Marry, I prithee, do, to make sport withal; but love no man
CELIA. My father's love is enough to honour him. Enough, speak no
CELIA. Nay, certainly, there is no truth in him.
CELIA. Nay, he hath but a little beard.
CELIA. No, hath not? Rosalind lacks, then, the love
CELIA. No, thy words are too precious to be cast away upon curs;
CELIA. No; when Nature hath made a fair creature, may she not by
CELIA. O Lord, Lord! it is a hard matter for friends to meet; but
CELIA. O my poor Rosalind! Whither wilt thou go?
CELIA. O wonderful, wonderful, most wonderful wonderful, and yet
CELIA. O, I have heard him speak of that same brother;
CELIA. O, a good wish upon you! You will try in time, in despite of
CELIA. O, that's a brave man! He writes brave verses, speaks brave
CELIA. Or I, I promise thee.
CELIA. Or rather, bottomless; that as fast as you pour affection
CELIA. Orlando.
CELIA. Peradventure this is not Fortune's work neither, but
CELIA. Prithee, who is't that thou mean'st?
CELIA. Pronounce that sentence, then, on me, my liege;
CELIA. So you may put a man in your belly.
CELIA. Something browner than Judas's.
CELIA. Something that hath a reference to my state:
CELIA. Sport! of what colour?
CELIA. That's no matter; the feet might bear the verses.
CELIA. There is more in it. Cousin Ganymede!
CELIA. There lay he, stretch'd along like a wounded knight.
CELIA. They are but burs, cousin, thrown upon thee in holiday
CELIA. Thou hast not, cousin.
CELIA. To seek my uncle in the Forest of Arden.
CELIA. Trow you who hath done this?
CELIA. Was't you that did so oft contrive to kill him?
CELIA. We'll lead you thither.
CELIA. Well said; that was laid on with a trowel.
CELIA. Well, and what of him?
CELIA. Well, the beginning, that is dead and buried.
CELIA. Were I my father, coz, would I do this?
CELIA. Were you made the messenger?
CELIA. West of this place, down in the neighbour bottom.
CELIA. What shall I call thee when thou art a man?
CELIA. Which he will put on us as pigeons feed their young.
CELIA. Why should I not? Doth he not deserve well?
CELIA. Why, cousin! why, Rosalind! Cupid have mercy!
CELIA. Why, how now, Ganymede! sweet Ganymede!
CELIA. Will you go, coz?
CELIA. With his eyes full of anger.
CELIA. Yes, when he is in; but I think he is not in.
CELIA. Yes; I think he is not a pick-purse nor a horse-stealer; but
CELIA. Yonder, sure, they are coming. Let us now stay and see it.
CELIA. You bring me out. Soft! comes he not here?
CELIA. You have simply misus'd our sex in your love-prate. We must
CELIA. You know my father hath no child but I, nor none is like to
CELIA. You must borrow me Gargantua's mouth first; 'tis a word too
CELIA. Young gentleman, your spirits are too bold for your years.
CELIA. Your heart's desires be with you!
CHARLES, wrestler to Frederick
CHARLES. Come, where is this young gallant that is so desirous to
CHARLES. Good morrow to your worship.
CHARLES. I am heartily glad I came hither to you. If he come
CHARLES. Marry, do I, sir; and I came to acquaint you with a
CHARLES. No, I warrant your Grace, you shall not entreat him to a
CHARLES. O, no; for the Duke's daughter, her cousin, so loves her,
CHARLES. There's no news at the court, sir, but the old news; that
CHARLES. They say he is already in the Forest of Arden, and a many
CHARMIAN. Behold, sir.                                    Exit
CHARMIAN. Dissolve, thick cloud, and rain, that I may say
CHARMIAN. In this vile world? So, fare thee well.
CHARMIAN. It is well done, and fitting for a princes
CHARMIAN. Lady!
CHARMIAN. Madam, I will.
CHARMIAN. O Cleopatra! thou art taken, Queen!
CHARMIAN. O Eastern star!
CHARMIAN. O madam, madam, madam!
CHARMIAN. O, break! O, break!
CHARMIAN. O, quietness, lady!
CHARMIAN. Peace, peace, Iras!
CHARMIAN. Speak softly, wake her not.
CHARMIAN. Too slow a messenger.               [Applies an asp]
CLEOPATRA. And may, through all the world. 'Tis yours, and we,
CLEOPATRA. Antony
CLEOPATRA. As sweet as balm, as soft as air, as gentle-
CLEOPATRA. Avoid, and leave him.                Exit GUARDSMAN
CLEOPATRA. Ay, ay; farewell.
CLEOPATRA. Be it known that we, the greatest, are misthought
CLEOPATRA. Dolabella!
CLEOPATRA. Dolabella,
CLEOPATRA. Farewell, and thanks.                Exit DOLABELLA
CLEOPATRA. Farewell.
CLEOPATRA. Get thee hence; farewell.
CLEOPATRA. Give me my robe, put on my crown; I have
CLEOPATRA. He words me, girls, he words me, that I should not
CLEOPATRA. He'll lead me, then, in triumph?
CLEOPATRA. Hie thee again.
CLEOPATRA. His face was as the heav'ns, and therein stuck
CLEOPATRA. His legs bestrid the ocean; his rear'd arm
CLEOPATRA. I cannot tell.
CLEOPATRA. I dreamt there was an Emperor Antony-
CLEOPATRA. I thank you, sir.
CLEOPATRA. Let him come in.                     Exit GUARDSMAN
CLEOPATRA. My desolation does begin to make
CLEOPATRA. My master and my lord!
CLEOPATRA. My resolution and my hands I'll trust;
CLEOPATRA. Nay, 'tis most certain, Iras. Saucy lictors
CLEOPATRA. Nay, pray you, sir.
CLEOPATRA. Nay, that's certain.
CLEOPATRA. No matter, sir, what I have heard or known.
CLEOPATRA. No more but e'en a woman, and commanded
CLEOPATRA. No, let me speak; and let me rail so high
CLEOPATRA. Noblest of men, woo't die?
CLEOPATRA. O Caesar, what a wounding shame is this,
CLEOPATRA. Peace, peace!
CLEOPATRA. Pray you tell him
CLEOPATRA. Quick, quick, good hands.        [Drawing a dagger]
CLEOPATRA. Remember'st thou any that have died on't?
CLEOPATRA. Say I would die.
CLEOPATRA. See, Caesar! O, behold,
CLEOPATRA. Sir, I will eat no meat; I'll not drink, sir;
CLEOPATRA. Sir, the gods
CLEOPATRA. Sole sir o' th' world,
CLEOPATRA. Take thou no care; it shall be heeded.
CLEOPATRA. They do not go together.
CLEOPATRA. Think you there was or might be such a man
CLEOPATRA. This is my treasurer; let him speak, my lord,
CLEOPATRA. This is the brief of money, plate, and jewels,
CLEOPATRA. This proves me base.
CLEOPATRA. Well, get thee gone; farewell.
CLEOPATRA. What have I kept back?
CLEOPATRA. What's thy name?
CLEOPATRA. What, of death too,
CLEOPATRA. Where art thou, death?
CLEOPATRA. Why, that's the way
CLEOPATRA. Will it eat me?
CLEOPATRA. You lie, up to the hearing of the gods.
CLOWN. I wish you all joy of the worm.
CLOWN. Look you, the worm is not to be trusted but in the keeping
CLOWN. Truly, I have him. But I would not be the party that should
CLOWN. Very good. Give it nothing, I pray you, for it is not worth
CLOWN. Very many, men and women too. I heard of one of them no
CLOWN. Yes, forsooth. I wish you joy o' th' worm.         Exit
CLOWN. You must not think I am so simple but I know the devil
CLOWN. You must think this, look you, that the worm will do his
COMINIUS
COMINIUS. 'Tis not a mile; briefly we heard their drums.
COMINIUS. As I guess, Marcius,
COMINIUS. Ay, if you come not in the blood of others,
COMINIUS. Breathe you, my friends. Well fought; we are come off
COMINIUS. But how prevail'd you?
COMINIUS. Ever right.
COMINIUS. Flower of warriors,
COMINIUS. Go we to our tent.
COMINIUS. I shall lack voice; the deeds of Coriolanus
COMINIUS. If I should tell thee o'er this thy day's work,
COMINIUS. It is your former promise.
COMINIUS. Look, sir, your mother!
COMINIUS. March on, my fellows;
COMINIUS. Marcius,
COMINIUS. Noble Marcius!
COMINIUS. O, well begg'd!
COMINIUS. On, to the Capitol.
COMINIUS. Our spoils he kick'd at,
COMINIUS. Should they not,
COMINIUS. So, to our tent;
COMINIUS. Take't- 'tis yours; what is't?
COMINIUS. The shepherd knows not thunder from a tabor
COMINIUS. Though I could wish
COMINIUS. Though thou speak'st truth,
COMINIUS. Too modest are you;
COMINIUS. Where is that slave
COMINIUS. Who's yonder
COMINIUS. You have fought together?
COMINIUS. You shall not be
CONSPIRATORS, With Aufidius
CORIN,    shepherd
CORIN. And how like you this shepherd's life, Master Touchstone?
CORIN. And they are often tarr'd over with the surgery of our
CORIN. And to you, gentle sir, and to you all.
CORIN. Assuredly the thing is to be sold.
CORIN. Besides, our hands are hard.
CORIN. Else are they very wretched.
CORIN. Fair sir, I pity her,
CORIN. For not being at court? Your reason.
CORIN. Here comes young Master Ganymede, my new mistress's brother.
CORIN. I partly guess; for I have lov'd ere now.
CORIN. If you will see a pageant truly play'd
CORIN. Into a thousand that I have forgotten.
CORIN. Mistress and master, you have oft enquired
CORIN. Nay, I hope.
CORIN. No more but that I know the more one sickens the worse at
CORIN. No, truly.
CORIN. Not a whit, Touchstone. Those that are good manners at the
CORIN. Our master and mistress seeks you; come away, away.
CORIN. Sir, I am a true labourer: I earn that I eat, get that I
CORIN. That is the way to make her scorn you still.
CORIN. That young swain that you saw here but erewhile,
CORIN. Who calls?
CORIN. Why, we are still handling our ewes; and their fells, you
CORIN. You have too courtly a wit for me; I'll rest.
CORIOLANUS.  [To his wife and mother]  Your hand, and yours.
CORIOLANUS. A match, sir. There's in all two worthy voices begg'd.
CORIOLANUS. And live you yet?  [To VALERIA]  O my sweet lady,
CORIOLANUS. Ay, not mine own desire.
CORIOLANUS. Bid them wash their faces
CORIOLANUS. By Jupiter, forgot!
CORIOLANUS. I do beseech you
CORIOLANUS. I do owe them still
CORIOLANUS. I had rather have one scratch my head i' th' sun
CORIOLANUS. I sometime lay here in Corioli
CORIOLANUS. I will go wash;
CORIOLANUS. I will not seal your knowledge with showing them. I
CORIOLANUS. It is a part
CORIOLANUS. Kindly, sir, I pray let me ha't. I have wounds to show
CORIOLANUS. Know, good mother,
CORIOLANUS. Menenius ever, ever.
CORIOLANUS. Mine own desert.
CORIOLANUS. Most sweet voices!
CORIOLANUS. My gracious silence, hail!
CORIOLANUS. No more of this, it does offend my heart.
CORIOLANUS. No, sir, 'twas never my desire yet to trouble the poor
CORIOLANUS. No, sir; yet oft,
CORIOLANUS. O,
CORIOLANUS. Pray you now, if it may stand with the tune of your
CORIOLANUS. The gods begin to mock me. I, that now
CORIOLANUS. Think upon me? Hang 'em!
CORIOLANUS. To brag unto them 'Thus I did, and thus!'
CORIOLANUS. Well then, I pray, your price o' th' consulship?
CORIOLANUS. What must I say?
CORIOLANUS. You should account me the more virtuous, that I have
CORIOLANUS. Your Honours' pardon.
CORIOLANUS. Your enigma?
Came to my house, and took away my ring-
Cannot amount unto a hundred marks;
Chas'd us away; till, raising of more aid,
Come not near her.
Come to the bay of Ephesus-he dies,
Come, I will fasten on this sleeve of thine;
Come, gaoler, bring me where the goldsmith is;
Come, go with us; we'll look to that anon.
Come, sir, to dinner. Dromio, keep the gate.
Come, sister. Dromio, play the porter well.
Come, sister; I am press'd down with conceit-
Come, where's the chain? I pray you let me see it.
Comes this way to the melancholy vale,
Comfort my sister, cheer her, call her wife.
Commends me to the thing I cannot get.
Conceit, my comfort and my injury.
Consider how it stands upon my credit.
Could all my travels warrant me they live.
Could witness it, for he was with me then;
Cries out I was possess'd. Then all together
DENNIS,     "     "   "
DENNIS. Calls your worship?
DENNIS. So please you, he is here at the door and importunes access
DERCETAS. He is dead, Caesar,
DERCETAS. I am call'd Dercetas;
DERCETAS. I say, O Caesar, Antony is dead.
DOLABELLA. Assuredly you know me.
DOLABELLA. Caesar, I shall.                               Exit
DOLABELLA. Caesar, thy thoughts
DOLABELLA. Cleopatra-
DOLABELLA. Gentle madam, no.
DOLABELLA. Hear me, good madam.
DOLABELLA. Here on her breast
DOLABELLA. How goes it here?
DOLABELLA. I am loath to tell you what I would you knew.
DOLABELLA. I understand not, madam.
DOLABELLA. I your servant.
DOLABELLA. If it might please ye-
DOLABELLA. It is the Emperor, madam.        [CLEOPATPA kneels]
DOLABELLA. Madam, as thereto sworn by your command,
DOLABELLA. Madam, he will. I know't.                [Flourish]
DOLABELLA. Most noble Empress, you have heard of me?
DOLABELLA. Most sovereign creature-
DOLABELLA. O sir, you are too sure an augurer:
DOLABELLA. Proculeius,
DOLABELLA. Though he be honourable-
DOLABELLA. Where's the Queen?
DOLABELLA. Who was last with them?
DUKE SENIOR. And did you leave him in this contemplation?
DUKE SENIOR. Art thou thus bolden'd, man, by thy distress?
DUKE SENIOR. But what said Jaques?
DUKE SENIOR. By my faith, he is very swift and sententious.
DUKE SENIOR. Come, shall we go and kill us venison?
DUKE SENIOR. Dost thou believe, Orlando, that the boy
DUKE SENIOR. Fie on thee! I can tell what thou wouldst do.
DUKE SENIOR. Go find him out.
DUKE SENIOR. He uses his folly like a stalking-horse, and under the
DUKE SENIOR. I do remember in this shepherd boy
DUKE SENIOR. I like him very well.
DUKE SENIOR. I think he be transform'd into a beast;
DUKE SENIOR. If he, compact of jars, grow musical,
DUKE SENIOR. If that you were the good Sir Rowland's son,
DUKE SENIOR. If there be truth in sight, you are my daughter.
DUKE SENIOR. Most Mischievous foul sin, in chiding sin;
DUKE SENIOR. Now, my co-mates and brothers in exile,
DUKE SENIOR. O my dear niece, welcome thou art to me!
DUKE SENIOR. Proceed, proceed. We will begin these rites,
DUKE SENIOR. Show me the place;
DUKE SENIOR. Sit down and feed, and welcome to our table.
DUKE SENIOR. Stay, Jaques, stay.
DUKE SENIOR. That would I, had I kingdoms to give with her.
DUKE SENIOR. Thou seest we are not all alone unhappy:
DUKE SENIOR. Thou shalt have one.
DUKE SENIOR. True is it that we have seen better days,
DUKE SENIOR. Welcome, young man.
DUKE SENIOR. Welcome. Set down your venerable burden.
DUKE SENIOR. Welcome; fall to. I will not trouble you
DUKE SENIOR. What fool is this?
DUKE SENIOR. What would you have? Your gentleness shall force
DUKE SENIOR. Why, how now, monsieur! what a life is this,
DUKE, living in exile
Dark-working sorcerers that change the mind,
Deep scars to save thy life; even for the blood
Denied my house for his, me for his wife.
Denies that saying. Sirrah, what say you?
Did but convey unto our fearful minds
Did call me brother.  [To LUCIANA]  What I told you then,
Did this companion with the saffron face
Didst thou deliver to me on the mart.
Dies ere the weary sun set in the west.
Diet his sickness, for it is my office,
Disburse the sum on the receipt thereof.
Disguised cheaters, prating mountebanks,
Dispers'd those vapours that offended us;
Do me the favour to dilate at full
Do outrage and displeasure to himself?
Do their gay vestments his affections bait?
Do use you for my fool and chat with you,
Doing displeasure to the citizens
Dost thou conjure for wenches, that thou call'st for such store,
Doth for a wife abhor. But her fair sister,
Drew me from kind embracements of my spouse:
Dromio, thou drone, thou snail, thou slug, thou sot!
Dromio; swore I was assur'd to her; told me what privy
Duke Menaphon, your most renowned uncle.
During which time he ne'er saw Syracuse.
EGYPTIAN. A poor Egyptian, yet the Queen, my mistress,
EGYPTIAN. So the gods preserve thee!                      Exit
Each one with ireful passion, with drawn swords,
Either consent to pay this sum for me,
Either get thee from the door, or sit down at the hatch.
Either send the chain or send by me some token.
Else would he never so demean himself.
Embrace thy brother there; rejoice with him.
Establish him in his true sense again,
Even for the service that long since I did thee,
Even in the spring of love, thy love-springs rot?
Even in the strength and height of injury.
Even now a tailor call'd me in his shop,
Even now we hous'd him in the abbey here,
Excludes all pity from our threat'ning looks.
FIFTH CITIZEN. We hope to find you our friend; and therefore give
FIRST CITIZEN. Against him first; he's a very dog to the
FIRST CITIZEN. And to make us no better thought of, a little help
FIRST CITIZEN. Ay, sir; well, well.
FIRST CITIZEN. Before we proceed any further, hear me speak.
FIRST CITIZEN. Care for us! True, indeed! They ne'er car'd for us
FIRST CITIZEN. First, you know Caius Marcius is chief enemy to the
FIRST CITIZEN. He's one honest enough; would all the rest were so!
FIRST CITIZEN. I say unto you, what he hath done famously he did it
FIRST CITIZEN. I the great toe? Why the great toe?
FIRST CITIZEN. If I must not, I need not be barren of accusations;
FIRST CITIZEN. It was an answer. How apply you this?
FIRST CITIZEN. Let us kill him, and we'll have corn at our own
FIRST CITIZEN. Once, if he do require our voices, we ought not to
FIRST CITIZEN. Our business is not unknown to th' Senate; they have
FIRST CITIZEN. Should by the cormorant belly be restrain'd,
FIRST CITIZEN. Soft! who comes here?
FIRST CITIZEN. The former agents, if they did complain,
FIRST CITIZEN. The price is to ask it kindly.
FIRST CITIZEN. Very well, and could be content to give him good
FIRST CITIZEN. We are accounted poor citizens, the patricians good.
FIRST CITIZEN. We cannot, sir; we are undone already.
FIRST CITIZEN. We have ever your good word.
FIRST CITIZEN. Well, I'll hear it, sir; yet you must not think to
FIRST CITIZEN. Well, sir, what answer made the belly?
FIRST CITIZEN. Y'are long about it.
FIRST CITIZEN. YOU are all resolv'd rather to die than to famish?
FIRST CITIZEN. Your belly's answer- What?
FIRST GUARD. A simple countryman that brought her figs.
FIRST GUARD. Approach, ho! All's not well: Caesar's beguil'd.
FIRST GUARD. Caesar hath sent-
FIRST GUARD. O Caesar,
FIRST GUARD. This is an aspic's trail; and these fig-leaves
FIRST GUARD. What work is here! Charmian, is this well done?
FIRST GUARD. Where's the Queen?
FIRST LORD. He saves my labour by his own approach.
FIRST LORD. I cannot hear of any that did see her.
FIRST LORD. I'll bring you to him straight.             Exeunt
FIRST LORD. Indeed, my lord,
FIRST LORD. My lord, he is but even now gone hence;
FIRST LORD. O, yes, into a thousand similes.
FIRST OFFICER. Come, come, they are almost here. How many stand for
FIRST OFFICER. If he did not care whether he had their love or no,
FIRST OFFICER. No more of him; he's a worthy man. Make way, they
FIRST OFFICER. That's a brave fellow; but he's vengeance proud and
FIRST PAGE. Shall we clap into't roundly, without hawking, or
FIRST PAGE. Well met, honest gentleman.
FIRST PAGE. YOU are deceiv'd, sir; we kept time, we lost not our
FIRST ROMAN. This will I carry to Rome.
FIRST SENATOR.  [To the Citizens]  Hence to your homes; be gone.
FIRST SENATOR. Call Coriolanus.
FIRST SENATOR. Farewell.
FIRST SENATOR. He cannot but with measure fit the honours
FIRST SENATOR. Marcius, 'tis true that you have lately told us:
FIRST SENATOR. No, nor a man that fears you less than he:
FIRST SENATOR. Our army's in the field;
FIRST SENATOR. Sit, Coriolanus, never shame to hear
FIRST SENATOR. So, your opinion is, Aufidius,
FIRST SENATOR. Speak, good Cominius.
FIRST SENATOR. Then, worthy Marcius,
FIRST SENATOR. Your company to th' Capitol; where, I know,
FIRST SOLDIER. 'Twill be deliver'd back on good condition.
FIRST SOLDIER. Following the fliers at the very heels,
FIRST SOLDIER. Fool-hardiness; not I.
FIRST SOLDIER. He's the devil.
FIRST SOLDIER. I shall, sir.                            Exeunt
FIRST SOLDIER. Look, sir.
FIRST SOLDIER. See, they have shut him in.
FIRST SOLDIER. Will not you go?
FOURTH CITIZEN. You have been a scourge to her enemies; you have
FOURTH CITIZEN. You have deserved nobly of your country, and you
FOURTH CITIZEN. You have received many wounds for your country.
FREDERICK, his brother, and usurper of his dominions
FREDERICK. Ay, Celia; we stay'd her for your sake,
FREDERICK. Bear him away. What is thy name, young man?
FREDERICK. Can it be possible that no man saw them?
FREDERICK. Come on; since the youth will not be entreated, his own
FREDERICK. Do so; I'll not be by.
FREDERICK. How dost thou, Charles?
FREDERICK. How now, daughter and cousin! Are you crept hither to
FREDERICK. I would thou hadst been son to some man else.
FREDERICK. Mistress, dispatch you with your safest haste,
FREDERICK. More villain thou. Well, push him out of doors;
FREDERICK. No more, no more.
FREDERICK. Not see him since! Sir, sir, that cannot be.
FREDERICK. Send to his brother; fetch that gallant hither.
FREDERICK. She is too subtle for thee; and her smoothness,
FREDERICK. Thou art thy father's daughter; there's enough.
FREDERICK. Thus do all traitors;
FREDERICK. You are a fool. You, niece, provide yourself.
FREDERICK. You shall try but one fall.
FREDERICK. You will take little delight in it, I can tell you,
FREDERICK. You, cousin.
Far from her nest the lapwing cries away;
Far more, far more, to you do I decline.
Fast'ned ourselves at either end the mast,
Fie on thee, wretch! 'tis pity that thou liv'st
First he did praise my beauty, then my speech.
Five summers have I spent in farthest Greece,
Fixing our eyes on whom our care was fix'd,
For God's sake, send some other messenger.
For a fish without a fin, there's a fowl without a feather;
For certain ducats; he with none return'd.
For ever hous'd where it gets possession.
For fear you ne'er see chain nor money more.
For forty ducats is too much to lose.
For he is bound to sea, and stays but for it.
For if we two be one, and thou play false,
For know, my love, as easy mayst thou fall
For lately we were bound as you are now.
For locking me out of my doors by day.
For servants must their masters' minds fulfil.
For she will score your fault upon my pate.
For slander lives upon succession,
For there's the house. That chain will I bestow-
For these deep shames and great indignities.
For urging it the second time to me.
For we may pity, though not pardon thee.
For what obscured light the heavens did grant
For which, I hope, thou felt'st I was displeas'd.
For with long travel I am stiff and weary.
For, ere the ships could meet by twice five leagues,
For, in conclusion, he did beat me there.
For, since the mortal and intestine jars
Forc'd me to seek delays for them and me.
Forsooth, took on him as a conjurer,
Fortune had left to both of us alike
Free from these slanders and this open shame!
From my poor cheek? Then he hath wasted it.
From whence, I think, you are come by miracle.
From whom my absence was not six months old,
GALLUS. You see how easily she may be surpris'd.
GENTLEWOMAN attending on Virgilia
GENTLEWOMAN. Madam, the Lady Valeria is come to visit you.
GUARDSMAN. Here is a rural fellow
GUARDSMAN. This is the man.
Gaoler, take him to thy custody.
Gather the sequel by that went before.
Gave any tragic instance of our harm:
Gave healthful welcome to their ship-wreck'd guests,
Get thee away.
Give her this key, and tell her in the desk
Give me thy hand.
Go home with it, and please your wife withal;
Go to a gossips' feast, and go with me;
Go, some of you, knock at the abbey gate,
Good Doctor Pinch, you are a conjurer:
Good Master Doctor, see him safe convey'd
Good people, enter, and lay hold on him.
Good signior, take the stranger to my house,
Good sir, draw near to me, I'll speak to him.
Good sir, say whe'r you'll answer me or no;
Good sister, let us dine, and never fret.
Great pails of puddled mire to quench the hair.
HERALD. Give way there, and go on.
HERALD. Know, Rome, that all alone Marcius did fight
HYMEN.    Peace, ho! I bar confusion;
Had fast'ned him unto a small spare mast,
Had hoisted sail and put to sea to-day.
Had made provision for her following me,
Had not their bark been very slow of sail;
Haply I see a friend will save my life
Hark, hark, I hear him, mistress; fly, be gone!
Hast thou delight to see a wretched man
Hast thou so crack'd and splitted my poor tongue
Hath almost made me traitor to myself;
Hath he not reason to turn back an hour in a day?
Hath homely age th' alluring beauty took
Hath oftentimes upbraided me withal;
Hath scar'd thy husband from the use of wits.
Have I been patron to Antipholus,
Have at you with a proverb: Shall I set in my staff?
Have seal'd his rigorous statutes with their bloods,
Have suffer'd wrong, go keep us company,
Have won his Grace to come in person hither
Have written strange defeatures in my face.
He ask'd me for a thousand marks in gold.
He broke from those that had the guard of him,
He cries for you, and vows, if he can take you,
He did arrest me with an officer.
He gains by death that hath such means to die.
He had of me a chain; at five o'clock
He is deformed, crooked, old, and sere,
He is my prisoner, and you shall not have him.
He met me on the mart, and that I beat him,
He rush'd into my house and took perforce
He shall not die; so much we tender him.
Heard you confess you had the chain of him,
Her part, poor soul, seeming as burdened
Her sober virtue, years, and modesty,
Here comes my man; I think he brings the money.
Here comes the almanac of my true date.
Here comes your man, now is your husband nigh.
Herein you war against your reputation,
His goods confiscate to the Duke's dispose,
His man with scissors nicks him like a fool;
His word might bear my wealth at any time.
Home to my house. O most unhappy day!
Home to the Centaur, with the gold you gave me.
Home to your house, the Phoenix, sir, to dinner.
Hopeless to find, yet loath to leave unsought
How comes it now, my husband, O, how comes it,
How dearly would it touch thee to the quick,
How much your chain weighs to the utmost carat,
How now, sir! Have you that I sent you for?
How now, sir, is your merry humour alter'd?
Husband, I'll dine above with you to-day,
I am not Adriana, nor thy wife.
I am not partial to infringe our laws.
I am possess'd with an adulterate blot;
I am thy prisoner. Wilt thou suffer them
I bought, and brought up to attend my sons.
I conjure thee by all the saints in heaven.
I conjure thee to leave me and be gone.
I could not speak with Dromio since at first
I crave your pardon. Soon at five o'clock,
I did obey, and sent my peasant home
I do digest the poison of thy flesh,
I from my mistress come to you in post;
I gain'd my freedom, and immediately
I greatly fear my money is not safe.
I have but lean luck in the match, and yet is she a
I have convey'd aboard; and I have bought
I have not breath'd almost since I did see it.
I hazarded the loss of whom I lov'd.
I hope I shall have leisure to make good;
I hope you do not mean to cheat me so.
I know a wench of excellent discourse,
I know his eye doth homage otherwhere;
I know it by their pale and deadly looks.
I know not thy mistress; out on thy mistress.'
I know thou canst, and therefore see thou do it.
I live dis-stain'd, thou undishonoured.
I long that we were safe and sound aboard.
I long to know the truth hereof at large.
I ne'er saw Syracuse in my life.
I never saw the chain, so help me Heaven!
I pray you see him presently discharg'd,
I promised your presence and the chain;
I see a man here needs not live by shifts,
I see by you I am a sweet-fac'd youth.
I see my son Antipholus, and Dromio.
I see the jewel best enamelled
I see thy age and dangers make thee dote.
I see we still did meet each other's man,
I see, sir, you have found the goldsmith now.
I sent him from the mart. See, here he comes.
I shall beg with it from door to door.
I shall receive the money for the same.
I should have chid you for not bringing it,
I should kick, being kick'd; and being at that pass,
I tell you 'twill sound harshly in her cars.
I thank him, I bare home upon my shoulders;
I think you all have drunk of Circe's cup.
I think you are all mated or stark mad.
I thought to have ta'en you at the Porpentine;
I to the world am like a drop of water
I to this fortune that you see me in.
I warrant, her rags and the tallow in them will burn
I went to seek him. In the street I met him,
I will determine this before I stir.
I will discharge my bond, and thank you too.
I will not harbour in this town to-night.
I would not spare my brother in this case,
I'll entertain the offer'd fallacy.
I'll fetch my sister to get her good will.
I'll give thee, ere I leave thee, so much money,
I'll knock elsewhere, to see if they'll disdain me.
I'll prove mine honour and mine honesty
I'll say as they say, and persever so,
I'll stop mine ears against the mermaid's song.
I'll to the Centaur to go seek this slave.
I'll to the mart, and there for Dromio stay;
I'll utter what my sorrow gives me leave.
I'll weep what's left away, and weeping die.
IRAS. Finish, good lady; the bright day is done,
IRAS. I'll never see't, for I am sure mine nails
IRAS. Madam!
IRAS. O the good gods!
IRAS. Royal Egypt, Empress!
IRAS. Royal Queen!
IRAS. She's dead too, our sovereign.
IRAS. The gods forbid!
If 'a be in debt and theft, and a sergeant in the way,
If I last in this service, you must case me in leather.
If I return, I shall be post indeed,
If I should pay your worship those again,
If a crow help us in, sirrah, we'll pluck a crow together.
If any bark put forth, come to the mart,
If any friend will pay the sum for him,
If any ship put out, then straight away.
If aught possess thee from me, it is dross,
If by strong hand you offer to break in
If every one knows us, and we know none,
If he should scorn me so apparently.
If he were mad, he would not plead so coldly.
If here you hous'd him, here he would have been;
If it prove so, I will be gone the sooner.
If it were chain'd together, and therefore came not.
If not, I'll leave him to the officer.
If the skin were parchment, and the blows you gave were ink,
If this be not a dream I see and hear.
If thou art she, tell me where is that son
If thou hadst been Dromio to-day in my place,
If voluble and sharp discourse be marr'd,
If we obey them not, this will ensue:
If you did wed my sister for her wealth,
If you will jest with me, know my aspect,
Ill deeds is doubled with an evil word.
Ill-fac'd, worse bodied, shapeless everywhere;
In Ephesus I am but two hours old,
In Syracuse was I born, and wed
In bed, he slept not for my urging it;
In company, I often glanced it;
In food, in sport, and life-preserving rest,
In quest of them, unhappy, lose myself.
In sap-consuming winter's drizzled snow,
In seven short years that here my only son
In this the madman justly chargeth them.
In what safe place you have bestow'd my money,
Indu'd with intellectual sense and souls,
Infect thy sap, and live on thy confusion.
Into this abbey, whither we pursu'd them;
Is a mad tale he told to-day at dinner
Is apprehended for arrival here;
Is growing to me by Antipholus;
Is that the chain you promis'd me to-day?
Is wand'red forth in care to seek me out.
It cannot be that she hath done thee wrong.
It hath in solemn synods been decreed,
It is a branch and parcel of mine oath,
It is thyself, mine own self's better part;
It seems he hath great care to please his wife.
It seems his sleeps were hind'red by thy railing,
It was two ere I left him, and now the clock strikes one.
It would make a man mad as a buck to be so bought and sold.
JAQUES DE BOYS. He hath.
JAQUES de BOYS. Let me have audience for a word or two.
JAQUES,   "      "       "  "     "      "
JAQUES,   "   "  "    "     "  "
JAQUES. 'Tis a Greek invocation, to call fools into a circle. I'll
JAQUES. A fool, a fool! I met a fool i' th' forest,
JAQUES. All the world's a stage,
JAQUES. An you will not be answer'd with reason, I must die.
JAQUES. And I have been all this day to avoid him. He is to
JAQUES. And how oft did you say his beard was not well cut?
JAQUES. And how was that ta'en up?
JAQUES. And will you, being a man of your breeding, be married
JAQUES. But, for the seventh cause: how did you find the quarrel on
JAQUES. By my troth, I was seeking for a fool when I found you.
JAQUES. Can you nominate in order now the degrees of the lie?
JAQUES. Go thou with me, and let me counsel thee.
JAQUES. God buy you; let's meet as little as we can.
JAQUES. Good my lord, bid him welcome. This is the motley-minded
JAQUES. How seventh cause? Good my lord, like this fellow.
JAQUES. I am so; I do love it better than laughing.
JAQUES. I do not desire you to please me; I do desire you to sing.
JAQUES. I do not like her name.
JAQUES. I have neither the scholar's melancholy, which is
JAQUES. I pray you mar no more trees with writing love songs in
JAQUES. I prithee, pretty youth, let me be better acquainted with
JAQUES. I thank it. More, I prithee, more. I can suck melancholy
JAQUES. I thank you for your company; but, good faith, I had as
JAQUES. I'll give you a verse to this note that I made yesterday in
JAQUES. I'll tarry no longer with you; farewell, good Signior Love.
JAQUES. Is not this a rare fellow, my lord?
JAQUES. It is my only suit,
JAQUES. Let's present him to the Duke, like a Roman conqueror; and
JAQUES. More, more, I prithee, more.
JAQUES. Nay, I care not for their names; they owe me nothing. Will
JAQUES. Nay, then, God buy you, an you talk in blank verse.
JAQUES. O worthy fool! One that hath been a courtier,
JAQUES. Of what kind should this cock come of?
JAQUES. Rosalind is your love's name?
JAQUES. Sing it; 'tis no matter how it be in tune, so it make noise
JAQUES. Sir, by your patience. If I heard you rightly,
JAQUES. The worst fault you have is to be in love.
JAQUES. There I shall see mine own figure.
JAQUES. There is, sure, another flood toward, and these couples are
JAQUES. Thus it goes:
JAQUES. To him will I. Out of these convertites
JAQUES. To see no pastime I. What you would have
JAQUES. Well then, if ever I thank any man, I'll thank you; but
JAQUES. What stature is she of?
JAQUES. What, for a counter, would I do but good?
JAQUES. Which is he that killed the deer?
JAQUES. Why, 'tis good to be sad and say nothing.
JAQUES. Why, I have eat none yet.
JAQUES. Why, who cries out on pride
JAQUES. Will you be married, motley?
JAQUES. Yes, I have gain'd my experience.
JAQUES. You are full of pretty answers. Have you not been
JAQUES. You have a nimble wit; I think 'twas made of Atalanta's
JAQUES. [Aside] A material fool!
JAQUES. [Aside] I would fain see this meeting.
JAQUES. [Aside] O knowledge ill-inhabited, worse than Jove in a
JAQUES. [Discovering himself] Proceed, proceed; I'll give her.
JUNIUS BRUTUS
Keep then fair league and truce with thy true bed;
Kinsman to grim and comfortless despair,
Known unto these, and to myself disguis'd!
Knows not my feeble key of untun'd cares?
LARTIUS.  [To COMINIUS]  Lead you on.
LARTIUS. Agreed.
LARTIUS. Hence, and shut your gates upon's.
LARTIUS. I shall, my lord.
LARTIUS. Marcius, his name?
LARTIUS. My horse to yours- no.
LARTIUS. No, Caius Marcius;
LARTIUS. No, I'll nor sell nor give him; lend you him I will
LARTIUS. Now the fair goddess, Fortune,
LARTIUS. O General,
LARTIUS. O noble fellow!
LARTIUS. O, 'tis Marcius!
LARTIUS. So, let the ports be guarded; keep your duties
LARTIUS. So, the good horse is mine.
LARTIUS. Their noise be our instruction. Ladders, ho!
LARTIUS. Thou worthiest Marcius!                  Exit MARCIUS
LARTIUS. What is become of Marcius?
LARTIUS. Worthy sir, thou bleed'st;
LE BEAU, a courtier attending upon Frederick
LE BEAU. Even he, madam.
LE BEAU. Fair Princess, you have lost much good sport.
LE BEAU. Good sir, I do in friendship counsel you
LE BEAU. He cannot speak, my lord.
LE BEAU. I will tell you the beginning, and, if it please your
LE BEAU. Monsieur the Challenger, the Princess calls for you.
LE BEAU. Neither his daughter, if we judge by manners;
LE BEAU. The eldest of the three wrestled with Charles, the Duke's
LE BEAU. There comes an old man and his three sons-
LE BEAU. Three proper young men, of excellent growth and presence.
LE BEAU. What colour, madam? How shall I answer you?
LE BEAU. Why, this that I speak of.
LE BEAU. You amaze me, ladies. I would have told you of good
LE BEAU. You must, if you stay here; for here is the place
LIEUTENANT, to Aufidius
LIEUTENANT. Fear not our care, sir.
LORD. Sir, it was I.
LORD. Yes, sir.
Lay open to my earthy-gross conceit,
Less in your knowledge and your grace you show not
Lest that your goods too soon be confiscate.
Let Love, being light, be drowned if she sink.
Let him be brought forth and borne hence for help.
Let not my sister read it in your eye;
Let us come in, that we may bind him fast,
Let's call more help to have them bound again.
Lightens my humour with his merry jests.
Look sweet, speak fair, become disloyalty;
Look'd he or red or pale, or sad or merrily?
Lord of the wide world and wild wat'ry seas,
Lords, Pages, Foresters, and Attendants
MAECENAS. His taints and honours
MAECENAS. When such a spacious mirror's set before him,
MARCIUS. 'Tis done.
MARCIUS. All the contagion of the south light on you,
MARCIUS. As with a man busied about decrees:
MARCIUS. Come I too late?
MARCIUS. Come I too late?
MARCIUS. Five tribunes, to defend their vulgar wisdoms,
MARCIUS. Go get you home, you fragments.
MARCIUS. Hang 'em! They say!
MARCIUS. He that will give good words to thee will flatter
MARCIUS. Here. What's the matter?
MARCIUS. How far off lie these armies?
MARCIUS. How lies their battle? Know you on which side
MARCIUS. I am glad on't; then we shall ha' means to vent
MARCIUS. I do beseech you,
MARCIUS. I have some wounds upon me, and they smart
MARCIUS. I thank you, General,
MARCIUS. I'll buy him of you.
MARCIUS. I'll fight with none but thee, for I do hate thee
MARCIUS. Let him alone;
MARCIUS. Let the first budger die the other's slave,
MARCIUS. Nay, let them follow.
MARCIUS. O! let me clip ye
MARCIUS. O, they are at it!
MARCIUS. Pray now, no more; my mother,
MARCIUS. Say, has our general met the enemy?
MARCIUS. See here these movers that do prize their hours
MARCIUS. Sir, it is;
MARCIUS. Sir, praise me not;
MARCIUS. Thanks. What's the matter, you dissentious rogues
MARCIUS. Then shall we hear their 'larum, and they ours.
MARCIUS. They are dissolv'd. Hang 'em!
MARCIUS. They fear us not, but issue forth their city.
MARCIUS. They have a leader,
MARCIUS. Those are they
MARCIUS. Thy friend no less
MARCIUS. Were half to half the world by th' ears, and he
MARCIUS. Will the time serve to tell? I do not think.
MARCIUS. Within these three hours, Tullus,
MARCIUS. Yonder comes news; a wager- they have met.
MARTEXT. 'Tis no matter; ne'er a fantastical knave of them all
MARTEXT. Is there none here to give the woman?
MARTEXT. Truly, she must be given, or the marriage is not lawful.
MENENIUS AGRIPPA, friend to Coriolanus
MENENIUS. 'Though all at once cannot
MENENIUS. A hundred thousand welcomes. I could weep
MENENIUS. A letter for me! It gives me an estate of seven years'
MENENIUS. And 'twas time for him too, I'll warrant him that; an he
MENENIUS. Ay, to devour him, as the hungry plebeians would the
MENENIUS. Because you talk of pride now- will you not be angry?
MENENIUS. Do not stand upon't.
MENENIUS. Either you must
MENENIUS. For corn at their own rates, whereof they say
MENENIUS. For that, being one o' th' lowest, basest, poorest,
MENENIUS. Ha! Marcius coming home?
MENENIUS. Has he disciplin'd Aufidius soundly?
MENENIUS. Having determin'd of the Volsces, and
MENENIUS. He loves your people;
MENENIUS. He's a bear indeed, that lives fike a lamb. You two are
MENENIUS. He's right noble;
MENENIUS. I am known to be a humorous patrician, and one that loves
MENENIUS. I know you can do very little alone; for your helps are
MENENIUS. I tell you, friends, most charitable care
MENENIUS. I will make my very house reel to-night. A letter for me?
MENENIUS. I will tell you;
MENENIUS. In what enormity is Marcius poor in that you two have not
MENENIUS. It then remains
MENENIUS. Masters of the people,
MENENIUS. Nay, these are almost thoroughly persuaded;
MENENIUS. Not according to the prayer of the people, for they love
MENENIUS. Note me this, good friend:
MENENIUS. Now it's twenty-seven; every gash was an enemy's grave.
MENENIUS. Now the gods crown thee!
MENENIUS. O me, the gods!
MENENIUS. O sir, you are not right; have you not known
MENENIUS. O, true bred!
MENENIUS. One i' th' neck and two i' th' thigh- there's nine that I
MENENIUS. Our very priests must become mockers, if they shall
MENENIUS. Pray now, sit down.
MENENIUS. Pray you, who does the wolf love?
MENENIUS. Put them not to't.
MENENIUS. Sir, I shall tell you. With a kind of smile,
MENENIUS. So do I too, if it be not too much. Brings a victory in
MENENIUS. Take my cap, Jupiter, and I thank thee. Hoo!
MENENIUS. That's off, that's off;
MENENIUS. The Senate, Coriolanus, are well pleas'd
MENENIUS. The augurer tells me we shall have news tonight.
MENENIUS. The senators of Rome are this good belly,
MENENIUS. There was a time when all the body's members
MENENIUS. This is strange now. Do you two know how you are censured
MENENIUS. This is strange.
MENENIUS. True! I'll be sworn they are true. Where is he wounded?
MENENIUS. Well, what then?
MENENIUS. What is granted them?
MENENIUS. What then?
MENENIUS. What work's, my countrymen, in hand? Where go you
MENENIUS. Why, 'tis no great matter; for a very little thief of
MENENIUS. Why, masters, my good friends, mine honest neighbours,
MENENIUS. Why, then you should discover a brace of unmeriting,
MENENIUS. Wondrous! Ay, I warrant you, and not without his true
MENENIUS. Worthy man!
MENENIUS. You know neither me, yourselves, nor any thing. You are
MENENIUS. You'll mar all.
MESSENGER. Above an hour, my lord.
MESSENGER. Spies of the Volsces
MESSENGER. The citizens of Corioli have issued
MESSENGER. The news is, sir, the Volsces are in arms.
MESSENGER. They lie in view, but have not spoke as yet.
MESSENGER. Where's Caius Marcius?
MESSENGER. Within this mile and half.
MESSENGER. You are sent for to the Capitol. 'Tis thought
Made daily motions for our home return;
Makes me with thy strength to communicate.
Man, more divine, the master of all these,
Master, be wise; an if you give it her,
May answer my good will and your good welcome here.
Met us again and, madly bent on us,
Methinks your maw, like mine, should be your clock,
Might bear him company in the quest of him;
Might'st thou perceive austerely in his eye
Mine eye's clear eye, my dear heart's dearer heart,
Muffle your false love with some show of blindness;
My blood is mingled with the crime of lust;
My dull deaf ears a little use to hear;
My food, my fortune, and my sweet hope's aim,
My heart prays for him, though my tongue do curse.
My heavy burden ne'er delivered.
My house was at the Phoenix! Wast thou mad,
My master and his man are both broke loose,
My master preaches patience to him, and the while
My master stays in the street.
My mistress and her sister stays for you.
My mistress made it one upon my cheek;
My present business calls me from you now.
My ring away. This course I fittest choose,
My sole earth's heaven, and my heaven's claim.
My soul should sue as advocate for thee.
My tongue, though not my heart, shall have his will.
My wasting lamps some fading glimmer left,
My way is now to hie home to his house,
My wife is in a wayward mood to-day,
My wife is shrewish when I keep not hours.
My wife, more careful for the latter-born,
My wife, not meanly proud of two such boys,
My wife-but, I protest, without desert-
My woes end likewise with the evening sun.
NICANOR, a Roman
Namely, some love that drew him oft from home.
Nay, an you will not, sir, I'll take my heels.
Nay, he's a thief too: have you not heard men say
Nay, more: if any born at Ephesus
Ne'er brake into extremity of rage.
Neither disturbed with the effect of wine,
No evil lost is wail'd when it is gone.
Nor by what wonder you do hit of mine-
Nor ever didst thou draw thy sword on me;
Nor heady-rash, provok'd with raging ire,
Nor now I had not, but that I am bound
Nor send him forth that we may bear him hence.
Nor to her bed no homage do I owe;
Now am I Dromio and his man unbound.
Now in the stirring passage of the day,
Now, trust me, were it not against our laws,
O, if thou be'st the same Aegeon, speak,
O, train me not, sweet mermaid, with thy note,
OLIVER, son of Sir Rowland de Boys
OLIVER. 'Twas I; but 'tis not I. I do not shame
OLIVER. And well he might so do,
OLIVER. And what wilt thou do? Beg, when that is spent? Well, sir,
OLIVER. And you, fair sister.                             Exit
OLIVER. Be of good cheer, youth. You a man!
OLIVER. By and by.
OLIVER. Call him in. [Exit DENNIS] 'Twill be a good way; and
OLIVER. Can you tell if Rosalind, the Duke's daughter, be banished
OLIVER. Charles, I thank thee for thy love to me, which thou shalt
OLIVER. Farewell, good Charles. Now will I stir this gamester. I
OLIVER. Get you with him, you old dog.
OLIVER. Good Monsieur Charles! What's the new news at the new
OLIVER. Good morrow, fair ones; pray you, if you know,
OLIVER. If that an eye may profit by a tongue,
OLIVER. Is it even so? Begin you to grow upon me? I will physic
OLIVER. Know you before whom, sir?
OLIVER. Know you where you are, sir?
OLIVER. Let me go, I say.
OLIVER. Look, he recovers.
OLIVER. Many will swoon when they do look on blood.
OLIVER. Marry, sir, be better employed, and be nought awhile.
OLIVER. Neither call the giddiness of it in question, the poverty
OLIVER. Now, sir! what make you here?
OLIVER. O that your Highness knew my heart in this!
OLIVER. Orlando doth commend him to you both;
OLIVER. Some of my shame; if you will know of me
OLIVER. That will I, for I must bear answer back
OLIVER. This was not counterfeit; there is too great testimony in
OLIVER. Twice did he turn his back, and purpos'd so;
OLIVER. Well then, take a good heart and counterfeit to be a man.
OLIVER. What mar you then, sir?
OLIVER. What, boy!                               [Strikes him]
OLIVER. What, you wrestle to-morrow before the new Duke?
OLIVER. When last the young Orlando parted from you,
OLIVER. Where will the old Duke live?
OLIVER. Wilt thou lay hands on me, villain?
OLIVER. not Charles, the Duke's wrestler, here to speak with me?
ORLANDO,  "   "  "    "     "  "
ORLANDO. 'Tis a fault I will not change for your best virtue. I am
ORLANDO. A man that had a wife with such a wit, he might say 'Wit,
ORLANDO. And I for Rosalind.
ORLANDO. And I for Rosalind.
ORLANDO. And so am I for Rosalind.
ORLANDO. And so had I; but yet, for fashion sake, I thank you too
ORLANDO. And what wit could wit have to excuse that?
ORLANDO. And why not the swift foot of Time? Had not that been as
ORLANDO. And wilt thou have me?
ORLANDO. Are you native of this place?
ORLANDO. As I remember, Adam, it was upon this fashion bequeathed
ORLANDO. Ay, and greater wonders than that.
ORLANDO. Ay, better than him I am before knows me. I know you are
ORLANDO. Ay, sweet Rosalind.
ORLANDO. But will my Rosalind do so?
ORLANDO. Can I not say 'I thank you'? My better parts
ORLANDO. Can you remember any of the principal evils that he laid
ORLANDO. Come, come, elder brother, you are too young in this.
ORLANDO. Did you ever cure any so?
ORLANDO. Fair youth, I would I could make thee believe I love.
ORLANDO. For ever and a day.
ORLANDO. For these two hours, Rosalind, I will leave thee.
ORLANDO. Forbear, and eat no more.
ORLANDO. Go apart, Adam, and thou shalt hear how he will shake me
ORLANDO. Good day, and happiness, dear Rosalind!
ORLANDO. Hang there, my verse, in witness of my love;
ORLANDO. He is drown'd in the brook; look but in, and you shall see
ORLANDO. How if the kiss be denied?
ORLANDO. I almost die for food, and let me have it.
ORLANDO. I am glad of your departure; adieu, good Monsieur
ORLANDO. I am he that is so love-shak'd; I pray you tell me your
ORLANDO. I am more proud to be Sir Rowland's son,
ORLANDO. I am no villain; I am the youngest son of Sir Rowland de
ORLANDO. I attend them with all respect and duty.
ORLANDO. I beseech you, punish me not with your hard thoughts,
ORLANDO. I can live no longer by thinking.
ORLANDO. I do desire we may be better strangers.
ORLANDO. I hope so.
ORLANDO. I must attend the Duke at dinner; by two o'clock I will be
ORLANDO. I no further offend you than becomes me for my good.
ORLANDO. I pray you mar no more of my verses with reading them
ORLANDO. I prithee recount some of them.
ORLANDO. I prithee, who doth he trot withal?
ORLANDO. I rest much bounden to you; fare you well.
ORLANDO. I sometimes do believe and sometimes do not:
ORLANDO. I swear to thee, youth, by the white hand of Rosalind, I
ORLANDO. I take some joy to say you are, because I would be talking
ORLANDO. I take thee, Rosalind, for wife.
ORLANDO. I thank ye; and be blest for your good comfort!
ORLANDO. I thank you most for him.
ORLANDO. I thank you, sir; and pray you tell me this:
ORLANDO. I will chide no breather in the world but myself, against
ORLANDO. I will not, till I please; you shall hear me. My father
ORLANDO. I will.
ORLANDO. I would kiss before I spoke.
ORLANDO. I would not be cured, youth.
ORLANDO. I would not have my right Rosalind of this mind; for, I
ORLANDO. If there be truth in sight, you are my Rosalind.
ORLANDO. If this be so, why blame you me to love you?
ORLANDO. Is't possible that on so little acquaintance you should
ORLANDO. It is my arm.
ORLANDO. Just as high as my heart.
ORLANDO. Marry, sir, I am helping you to mar that which God made, a
ORLANDO. My fair Rosalind, I come within an hour of my promise.
ORLANDO. My lord, the first time that I ever saw him
ORLANDO. Neither rhyme nor reason can express how much.
ORLANDO. No, fair Princess; he is the general challenger. I come
ORLANDO. Nor I.                                         Exeunt
ORLANDO. Nor shalt not, till necessity be serv'd.
ORLANDO. Not so; but I answer you right painted cloth, from whence
ORLANDO. Nothing; I am not taught to make any thing.
ORLANDO. Now, by the faith of my love, I will. Tell me where it is.
ORLANDO. O good old man, how well in thee appears
ORLANDO. O, but she is wise.
ORLANDO. O, sir, very well; here in your orchard.
ORLANDO. Of a snail!
ORLANDO. Orlando, my liege; the youngest son of Sir Rowland de
ORLANDO. Pardon me, dear Rosalind.
ORLANDO. Pray thee, marry us.
ORLANDO. Ready, sir; but his will hath in it a more modest working.
ORLANDO. Shall I keep your hogs, and eat husks with them? What
ORLANDO. So do all thoughts; they are wing'd.
ORLANDO. Speak you so gently? Pardon me, I pray you;
ORLANDO. Speak'st thou in sober meanings?
ORLANDO. That would I, were I of all kingdoms king.
ORLANDO. Then but forbear your food a little while,
ORLANDO. Then love me, Rosalind.
ORLANDO. Then, in mine own person, I die.
ORLANDO. There was no thought of pleasing you when she was
ORLANDO. They shall be married to-morrow; and I will bid the Duke
ORLANDO. To her that is not here, nor doth not hear.
ORLANDO. Very well; what would you?
ORLANDO. Virtue is no horn-maker; and my Rosalind is virtuous.
ORLANDO. What passion hangs these weights upon my tongue?
ORLANDO. What sayest thou?
ORLANDO. What were his marks?
ORLANDO. What's that?
ORLANDO. What, of my suit?
ORLANDO. What, wouldst thou have me go and beg my food,
ORLANDO. Where dwell you, pretty youth?
ORLANDO. Which I take to be either a fool or a cipher.
ORLANDO. Who ambles Time withal?
ORLANDO. Who could be out, being before his beloved mistress?
ORLANDO. Who doth he gallop withal?
ORLANDO. Who stays it still withal?
ORLANDO. Who's there?
ORLANDO. Why, how now, Adam! No greater heart in thee? Live a
ORLANDO. Why, now; as fast as she can marry us.
ORLANDO. Why, what's the matter?
ORLANDO. Why, whither, Adam, wouldst thou have me go?
ORLANDO. With all my heart, good youth.
ORLANDO. With no less religion than if thou wert indeed my
ORLANDO. Wounded it is, but with the eyes of a lady.
ORLANDO. Yes, I beseech your Grace; I am not yet well breath'd.
ORLANDO. Yes, just.
ORLANDO. You have my consent. Let your wedding be to-morrow.
ORLANDO. You mean to mock me after; you should not have mock'd me
ORLANDO. You should ask me what time o' day; there's no clock in
ORLANDO. You touch'd my vein at first: the thorny point
ORLANDO. Your accent is something finer than you could purchase in
Of Corinth that, of Epidaurus this.
Of credit infinite, highly belov'd,
Of his heart's meteors tilting in his face?
Of his own doors being shut against his entrance.
Of more pre-eminence than fish and fowls,
Of my defeatures. My decayed fair
Of pale distemperatures and foes to life?
Of such a burden, male twins, both alike.
Of such enchanting presence and discourse,
Of vile confederates. Along with them
Of whom I hope to make much benefit;
Of you, my sons; and till this present hour
On purpose shut the doors against his way.
On, officer, to prison till it come.
Once did I get him bound and sent him home,
Once this-your long experience of her wisdom,
One that, before the Judgment, carries poor souls to hell.
One whose hard heart is button'd up with steel;
Or I attach you by this officer.
Or I shall break that merry sconce of yours,
Or I will beat this method in your sconce.
Or I'll attach you by this officer.
Or else what lets it but he would be here?
Or else you may return without your money.
Or lose my labour in assaying it.
Or sleep I now, and think I hear all this?
Or that or any place that harbours men.
Or, for my diamond, the chain you promis'd,
Or, if you like elsewhere, do it by stealth;
Our dinner done, and he not coming thither,
Our helpful ship was splitted in the midst;
PHEBE, a shepherdes
PHEBE. And I for Ganymede.
PHEBE. And I for Ganymede.
PHEBE. And so am I for Ganymede.
PHEBE. But till that time
PHEBE. Dead shepherd, now I find thy saw of might:
PHEBE. For no ill will I bear you.
PHEBE. Good shepherd, tell this youth what 'tis to love.
PHEBE. Ha! what say'st thou, Silvius?
PHEBE. I will not eat my word, now thou art mine;
PHEBE. I would not be thy executioner;
PHEBE. I'll write it straight;
PHEBE. If sight and shape be true,
PHEBE. If this be so, why blame you me to love you?
PHEBE. Know'st thou the youth that spoke to me erewhile?
PHEBE. Nor I.
PHEBE. So is the bargain.
PHEBE. Sweet youth, I pray you chide a year together;
PHEBE. That will I, should I die the hour after.
PHEBE. Think not I love him, though I ask for him;
PHEBE. Thou hast my love; is not that neighbourly?
PHEBE. Why, I arn sorry for thee, gentle Silvius.
PHEBE. Why, that were covetousness.
PHEBE. Youth, you have done me much ungentleness
PROCULEIUS. Be of good cheer;
PROCULEIUS. Caesar sends greetings to the Queen of Egypt,
PROCULEIUS. Caesar, I shall.                              Exit
PROCULEIUS. Cleopatra,
PROCULEIUS. Hold, worthy lady, hold,             [Disarms her]
PROCULEIUS. My name is Proculeius.
PROCULEIUS. O, temperance, lady!
PROCULEIUS. So, Dolabella,
PROCULEIUS. This I'll report, dear lady.
PROCULEIUS. You do extend
Perchance I will be there as soon as you.
Perchance you will not bear them patiently.
Peruse the traders, gaze upon the buildings,
Plead on her part some cause to you unknown;
Please you, I'll meet with you upon the mart,
Pleaseth you walk with me down to his house,
Poisons more deadly than a mad dog's tooth.
Poland winter. If she lives till doomsday, she'll burn
Possess'd with such a gentle sovereign grace,
Pretty and witty; wild, and yet, too, gentle;
Promising to bring it to the Porpentine,
ROSALIND, daughter to the banished Duke
ROSALIND.   'From the east to western Inde,
ROSALIND. 'Tis he; slink by, and note him.
ROSALIND. 'Why, thy godhead laid apart,
ROSALIND. A lean cheek, which you have not; a blue eye and sunken,
ROSALIND. A traveller! By my faith, you have great reason to be
ROSALIND. Alas the day! what shall I do with my doublet and hose?
ROSALIND. Alas!
ROSALIND. Alas, dear love, I cannot lack thee two hours!
ROSALIND. Alas, poor shepherd! searching of thy wound,
ROSALIND. Alas, what danger will it be to us,
ROSALIND. And I am your Rosalind.
ROSALIND. And I for no woman.
ROSALIND. And I for no woman.
ROSALIND. And his kissing is as full of sanctity as the touch of
ROSALIND. And so am I for no woman.
ROSALIND. And you say you will have her when I bring her?
ROSALIND. And your experience makes you sad. I had rather have a
ROSALIND. Are you not good?
ROSALIND. As the coney that you see dwell where she is kindled.
ROSALIND. As wit and fortune will.
ROSALIND. Ay, and twenty such.
ROSALIND. Ay, be so, good Touchstone. Look you, who comes here, a
ROSALIND. Ay, but the feet were lame, and could not bear themselves
ROSALIND. Ay, but when?
ROSALIND. Ay, go your ways, go your ways. I knew what you would
ROSALIND. Ay, marry, now unmuzzle your wisdom.
ROSALIND. Ay, my liege; so please you give us leave.
ROSALIND. Ay, of a snail; for though he comes slowly, he carries
ROSALIND. Break an hour's promise in love! He that will divide a
ROSALIND. But are you so much in love as your rhymes speak?
ROSALIND. But doth he know that I am in this forest, and in man's
ROSALIND. But for the bloody napkin?
ROSALIND. But have I not cause to weep?
ROSALIND. But if you do refuse to marry me,
ROSALIND. But is there any else longs to see this broken music in
ROSALIND. But why did he swear he would come this morning, and
ROSALIND. But, cousin, what if we assay'd to steal
ROSALIND. But, to Orlando: did he leave him there,
ROSALIND. By my life, I do; which I tender dearly, though I say I
ROSALIND. By my life, she will do as I do.
ROSALIND. By my troth, and in good earnest, and so God mend me, and
ROSALIND. By no means, sir. Time travels in divers paces with
ROSALIND. By this hand, it will not kill a fly. But come, now I
ROSALIND. Come, come, you are a fool,
ROSALIND. Come, woo me, woo me; for now I am in a holiday humour,
ROSALIND. Counterfeit, I assure you.
ROSALIND. Dear Celia, I show more mirth than I am mistress of; and
ROSALIND. Did your brother tell you how I counterfeited to swoon
ROSALIND. Do you not know I am a woman? When I think, I must speak.
ROSALIND. Do you pity him? No, he deserves no pity. Wilt thou love
ROSALIND. Do you think so?
ROSALIND. Do, young sir; your reputation shall not therefore be
ROSALIND. Fare you well. Pray heaven I be deceiv'd in you!
ROSALIND. Farewell, Monsieur Traveller; look you lisp and wear
ROSALIND. From henceforth I will, coz, and devise sports.
ROSALIND. Gentleman,        [Giving him a chain from her neck]
ROSALIND. Go with me to it, and I'll show it you; and, by the way,
ROSALIND. God save you, brother.
ROSALIND. Good my complexion! dost thou think, though I am
ROSALIND. Have with you. Fare you well.
ROSALIND. He calls us back. My pride fell with my fortunes;
ROSALIND. He's fall'n in love with your foulness, and she'll fall
ROSALIND. His very hair is of the dissembling colour.
ROSALIND. How say you now? Is it not past two o'clock?
ROSALIND. I am. What must we understand by this?
ROSALIND. I care not if I have. It is my study
ROSALIND. I could find in my heart to disgrace my man's apparel,
ROSALIND. I could shake them off my coat: these burs are in my
ROSALIND. I do beseech your Grace,
ROSALIND. I do so, I confess it. Ah, sirrah, a body would think
ROSALIND. I have been told so of many; but indeed an old religious
ROSALIND. I have more cause.
ROSALIND. I have promis'd to make all this matter even.
ROSALIND. I met the Duke yesterday, and had much question with him.
ROSALIND. I might ask you for your commission; but- I do take thee,
ROSALIND. I pray thee, if it stand with honesty,
ROSALIND. I pray you do not fall in love with me,
ROSALIND. I pray you, what is't o'clock?
ROSALIND. I prithee, shepherd, if that love or gold
ROSALIND. I prithee, who?
ROSALIND. I shall devise something; but, I pray you, commend my
ROSALIND. I thought thy heart had been wounded with the claws of a
ROSALIND. I was seven of the nine days out of the wonder before you
ROSALIND. I will weary you, then, no longer with idle talking. Know
ROSALIND. I would I were at home.
ROSALIND. I would cure you, if you would but call me Rosalind, and
ROSALIND. I would try, if I could cry 'hem' and have him.
ROSALIND. I would we could do so; for her benefits are mightily
ROSALIND. I' faith, his hair is of a good colour.
ROSALIND. I'll graff it with you, and then I shall graff it with a
ROSALIND. I'll have no father, if you be not he;
ROSALIND. I'll have no worse a name than Jove's own page,
ROSALIND. Indeed, there is Fortune too hard for Nature, when
ROSALIND. Is he of God's making? What manner of man?
ROSALIND. Is it a man?
ROSALIND. Is yonder the man?
ROSALIND. It is not the fashion to see the lady the epilogue; but
ROSALIND. It may well be call'd Jove's tree, when it drops forth
ROSALIND. Jove, Jove! this shepherd's passion
ROSALIND. Let me love him for that; and do you love him because I
ROSALIND. Love is merely a madness; and, I tell you, deserves as
ROSALIND. Marry, he trots hard with a young maid between the
ROSALIND. Marry, that should you, if I were your mistress; or I
ROSALIND. Marry, to say she came to seek you there. You shall never
ROSALIND. Me believe it! You may as soon make her that you love
ROSALIND. Me, uncle?
ROSALIND. My father lov'd Sir Rowland as his soul,
ROSALIND. Nay, I prithee now, with most petitionary vehemence, tell
ROSALIND. Nay, an you be so tardy, come no more in my sight. I had
ROSALIND. Nay, but the devil take mocking! Speak sad brow and true
ROSALIND. Nay, but who is it?
ROSALIND. Nay, you must call me Rosalind. Come, sister, will you
ROSALIND. Nay, you were better speak first; and when you were
ROSALIND. Nay; now thou goest from Fortune's office to Nature's:
ROSALIND. Never talk to me; I will weep.
ROSALIND. No, faith, die by attorney. The poor world is almost six
ROSALIND. No, faith, hate him not, for my sake.
ROSALIND. No, some of it is for my child's father. O, how full of
ROSALIND. No; I will not cast away my physic but on those that are
ROSALIND. No; that same wicked bastard of Venus, that was begot of
ROSALIND. Not one to throw at a dog.
ROSALIND. Not out of your apparel, and yet out of your suit.
ROSALIND. Not true in love?
ROSALIND. Now tell me how long you would have her, after you have
ROSALIND. Now, Hercules be thy speed, young man!
ROSALIND. O Jupiter, how weary are my spirits!
ROSALIND. O coz, coz, coz, my pretty little coz, that thou didst
ROSALIND. O excellent young man!
ROSALIND. O most gentle pulpiter! What tedious homily of love have
ROSALIND. O, I know where you are. Nay, 'tis true. There was never
ROSALIND. O, come, let us remove!
ROSALIND. O, my dear Orlando, how it grieves me to see thee wear
ROSALIND. O, ominous! he comes to kill my heart.
ROSALIND. O, they take the part of a better wrestler than myself.
ROSALIND. O, yes, I heard them all, and more too; for some of them
ROSALIND. Or else she could not have the wit to do this. The wiser,
ROSALIND. Orlando?
ROSALIND. Out, fool!
ROSALIND. Patience herself would startle at this letter,
ROSALIND. Patience once more, whiles our compact is urg'd:
ROSALIND. Peace!
ROSALIND. Peace, I say. Good even to you, friend.
ROSALIND. Peace, fool; he's not thy Ensman.
ROSALIND. Peace, you dull fool! I found them on a tree.
ROSALIND. Pray you, no more of this; 'tis like the howling of Irish
ROSALIND. Proceed.
ROSALIND. SO was I when your Highness took his dukedom;
ROSALIND. Say 'a day' without the 'ever.' No, no, Orlando; men are
ROSALIND. She Phebes me: mark how the tyrant writes.
ROSALIND. So I do; but, i' faith, I should have been a woman by
ROSALIND. That he hath not.
ROSALIND. The Duke my father lov'd his father dearly.
ROSALIND. The little strength that I have, I would it were with
ROSALIND. Then shall we be news-cramm'd.
ROSALIND. Then she puts you to entreaty, and there begins new
ROSALIND. Then there is no true lover in the forest, else sighing
ROSALIND. Then there were two cousins laid up, when the one should
ROSALIND. Then you must say 'I take thee, Rosalind, for wife.'
ROSALIND. There is none of my uncle's marks upon you; he taught me
ROSALIND. There were none principal; they were all like one another
ROSALIND. They say you are a melancholy fellow.
ROSALIND. Those that are in extremity of either are abominable
ROSALIND. Thou losest thy old smell.
ROSALIND. Thou speak'st wiser than thou art ware of.
ROSALIND. Though it be pity to see such a sight, it well becomes
ROSALIND. Was't you he rescu'd?
ROSALIND. Well, I will forget the condition of my estate, to
ROSALIND. Well, Time is the old justice that examines all such
ROSALIND. Well, in her person, I say I will not have you.
ROSALIND. Well,. this is the Forest of Arden.
ROSALIND. Were it not better,
ROSALIND. What is he that shall buy his flock and pasture?
ROSALIND. What shall be our sport, then?
ROSALIND. Where learned you that oath, fool?
ROSALIND. Why do you speak too, 'Why blame you me to love you?'
ROSALIND. Why then, 'tis good to be a post.
ROSALIND. Why then, can one desire too much of a good thing? Come,
ROSALIND. Why, 'tis a boisterous and a cruel style;
ROSALIND. Why, God will send more if the man will be thankful. Let
ROSALIND. Why, horns; which such as you are fain to be beholding to
ROSALIND. Why, then, to-morrow I cannot serve your turn for
ROSALIND. Why, whither shall we go?
ROSALIND. With a priest that lacks Latin and a rich man that hath
ROSALIND. With a thief to the gallows; for though he go as softly
ROSALIND. With bills on their necks: 'Be it known unto all men by
ROSALIND. With his mouth full of news.
ROSALIND. With lawyers in the vacation; for they sleep between term
ROSALIND. With this shepherdess, my sister; here in the skirts of
ROSALIND. Yes, faith, will I, Fridays and Saturdays, and all.
ROSALIND. Yes, one; and in this manner. He was to imagine me his
ROSALIND. Yet tell us the manner of the wrestling.
ROSALIND. Yet your mistrust cannot make me a traitor.
ROSALIND. You have heard him swear downright he was.
ROSALIND. You must begin 'Will you, Orlando'-
ROSALIND. You say that you'll have Phebe, if she will?
ROSALIND. You say you'll marry me, if I be willing?
ROSALIND. Young man, have you challeng'd Charles the wrestler?
ROSALIND. [Advancing] And why, I pray you? Who might be your
ROSALIND. [Aside to CELIA] I will speak to him like a saucy lackey,
ROSALIND. [To DUKE] To you I give myself, for I am yours.
Ran hither to your Grace; whom I beseech
Reft of his brother, but retain'd his name-
Reserve them till a merrier hour than this.
Revel and feast it at my house to-day,
Rings, jewels, anything his rage did like.
Roaming clean through the bounds of Asia,
Roman and Volscian Senators, Patricians, Aediles, Lictors,
SECOND CITIZEN. An 'twere to give again- but 'tis no matter.
SECOND CITIZEN. Consider you what services he has done for his
SECOND CITIZEN. Nay, but speak not maliciously.
SECOND CITIZEN. One word, good citizens.
SECOND CITIZEN. Think you so? Which way do you judge my wit would
SECOND CITIZEN. We may, sir, if we will.
SECOND CITIZEN. What he cannot help in his nature you account a
SECOND CITIZEN. Why that way?
SECOND CITIZEN. Worthy Menenius Agrippa; one that hath always lov'd
SECOND CITIZEN. Would you proceed especially against Caius Marcius?
SECOND CITIZEN. YOU are never without your tricks; you may, you
SECOND CITIZEN. You shall ha' it, worthy sir.
SECOND CITIZEN. Your own desert?
SECOND GUARD. All dead.
SECOND GUARD. There's Dolabella sent from Caesar; call him.
SECOND LORD. My lord, the roynish clown, at whom so oft
SECOND LORD. We did, my lord, weeping and commenting
SECOND OFFICER. Faith, there have been many great men that have
SECOND OFFICER. He hath deserved worthily of his country; and his
SECOND OFFICER. Three, they say; but 'tis thought of every one
SECOND PAGE. I'faith, i'faith; and both in a tune, like two gipsies
SECOND PAGE. We are for you; sit i' th' middle.
SECOND ROMAN. And I this.
SECOND SENATOR. Farewell.
SECOND SENATOR. Noble Aufidius,
SECOND SOLDIER. Not I.                    [MARCIUS is shut in]
SELEUCUS. Enough to purchase what you have made known.
SELEUCUS. Here, madam.
SELEUCUS. Madam,
SENATORS. To Coriolanus come all joy and honour!
SICINIUS VELUTUS
SICINIUS. 'Tis right.
SICINIUS. Bemock the modest moon.
SICINIUS. Besides, if things go well,
SICINIUS. Doubt not
SICINIUS. Especially in pride.
SICINIUS. Have with you.                                Exeunt
SICINIUS. He cannot temp'rately transport his honours
SICINIUS. I wish no better
SICINIUS. It shall be to him then as our good wills:
SICINIUS. Let's hence and hear
SICINIUS. May they perceive's intent! He will require them
SICINIUS. Menenius, you are known well enough too.
SICINIUS. Nature teaches beasts to know their friends.
SICINIUS. Nay, but his taunts!
SICINIUS. On the sudden
SICINIUS. Sir, the people
SICINIUS. Such a nature,
SICINIUS. The lamb.
SICINIUS. This, as you say, suggested
SICINIUS. Was ever man so proud as is this Marcius?
SICINIUS. We are convented
SICINIUS. When we were chosen tribunes for the people-
SILVIUS,     "
SILVIUS. Call you this chiding?
SILVIUS. Call you this railing?
SILVIUS. I would have you.
SILVIUS. I'll not fail, if I live.
SILVIUS. If this be so, why blame you me to love you?
SILVIUS. It is to be all made of faith and service;
SILVIUS. It is to be all made of fantasy,
SILVIUS. It is to be all made of sighs and tears;
SILVIUS. My errand is to you, fair youth;
SILVIUS. No, Corin, being old, thou canst not guess,
SILVIUS. No, I protest, I know not the contents;
SILVIUS. Not very well; but I have met him oft;
SILVIUS. O Corin, that thou knew'st how I do love her!
SILVIUS. O dear Phebe,
SILVIUS. O, thou didst then never love so heartily!
SILVIUS. Phebe, with all my heart.
SILVIUS. So holy and so perfect is my love,
SILVIUS. So please you, for I never heard it yet;
SILVIUS. Sure, it is hers.
SILVIUS. Sweet Phebe, do not scorn me; do not, Phebe.
SILVIUS. Sweet Phebe, pity me.
SILVIUS. Sweet Phebe.
SILVIUS. Though to have her and death were both one thing.
SILVIUS. Wherever sorrow is, relief would be.
SIR OLIVER MARTEXT, a vicar
Safe at the Centaur, and the heedful slave
Say he dines forth, and let no creature enter.
Say now, whose suit is he arrested at?
Say that I linger'd with you at your shop
Second to none that lives here in the city;
Shall love, in building, grow so ruinous?
Shame hath a bastard fame, well managed;
She had transform'd me to a curtal dog, and made me turn i' th' wheel.
She is so hot because the meat is cold,
She is too big, I hope, for me to compass.
She now shall be my sister, not my wife.
She sent for you by Dromio home to dinner.
She that doth call me husband, even my soul
She that doth fast till you come home to dinner,
She whom thou gav'st to me to be my wife,
Should'st thou but hear I were licentious,
Signior Andpholus, I wonder much
Since mine own doors refuse to entertain me,
Since that my beauty cannot please his eye,
Sing, siren, for thyself, and I will dote;
Sirrah, if any ask you for your master,
Sister, you know he promis'd me a chain;
Sleeping or waking, mad or well-advis'd?
Smoth'red in errors, feeble, shallow, weak,
So I, to find a mother and a brother,
So fly I from her that would be my wife.
So great a charge from thine own custody?
So he would keep fair quarter with his bed!
So that my errand, due unto my tongue,
So that, in this unjust divorce of us,
So thou, that hast no unkind mate to grieve thee,
Some blessed power deliver us from hence!
Some get within him, take his sword away;
Some of my mistress' marks upon my shoulders,
Some offer me commodities to buy;
Some other give me thanks for kindnesses,
Some other mistress hath thy sweet aspects;
Some tender money to me, some invite me,
Soul-killing witches that deform the body,
Speak, old Aegeon, if thou be'st the man
Spread o'er the silver waves thy golden hairs,
Sprung from the rancorous outrage of your duke
Stigmatical in making, worse in mind.
Still did I tell him it was vile and bad.
Straight after did I meet him with a chain.
Stray'd his affection in unlawful love?
Such as sea-faring men provide for storms;
Sure, Luciana, it is two o'clock.
Sure, these are but imaginary wiles,
Sweet recreation barr'd, what doth ensue
THIRD CITIZEN. Are you all resolv'd to give your voices? But that's
THIRD CITIZEN. But this is something odd.
THIRD CITIZEN. How, not your own desire?
THIRD CITIZEN. Nay, your wit will not so soon out as another man's
THIRD CITIZEN. To lose itself in a fog; where being three parts
THIRD CITIZEN. We do, sir; tell us what hath brought you to't.
THIRD CITIZEN. We have been call'd so of many; not that our heads
THIRD CITIZEN. We have power in ourselves to do it, but it is a
THIRD CITIZEN. YOU MUST think, if we give you anything, we hope to
THIRD ROMAN. A murrain on 't! I took this for silver.
TITUS LARTIUS
TOUCHSTONE, the court jester
TOUCHSTONE.   For a taste:
TOUCHSTONE. 'So so' is good, very good, very excellent good; and
TOUCHSTONE. 'Thank God.' A good answer.
TOUCHSTONE. A fair name. Wast born i' th' forest here?
TOUCHSTONE. A most wicked Sir Oliver, Audrey, a most vile Martext.
TOUCHSTONE. A ripe age. Is thy name William?
TOUCHSTONE. According to the fool's bolt, sir, and such dulcet
TOUCHSTONE. Amen. A man may, if he were of a fearful heart, stagger
TOUCHSTONE. And I mine. I remember, when I was in love, I broke my
TOUCHSTONE. And mine; but it grows something stale with me.
TOUCHSTONE. As the ox hath his bow, sir, the horse his curb, and
TOUCHSTONE. Ay, now am I in Arden; the more fool I; when I was at
TOUCHSTONE. But what is the sport, monsieur, that the ladies have
TOUCHSTONE. By my knavery, if I had it, then I were. But if you
TOUCHSTONE. By my troth, well met. Come sit, sit, and a song.
TOUCHSTONE. By my troth, yes; I count it but time lost to hear such
TOUCHSTONE. Come apace, good Audrey; I will fetch up your goats,
TOUCHSTONE. Come, shepherd, let us make an honourable retreat;
TOUCHSTONE. Come, sweet Audrey;
TOUCHSTONE. Faith, we met, and found the quarrel was upon the
TOUCHSTONE. For my part, I had rather bear with you than bear you;
TOUCHSTONE. Give me your hand. Art thou learned?
TOUCHSTONE. God 'ild you, sir; I desire you of the like. I press in
TOUCHSTONE. Good ev'n, gentle friend. Cover thy head, cover thy
TOUCHSTONE. Good even, good Master What-ye-call't; how do you, sir?
TOUCHSTONE. He, sir, that must marry this woman. Therefore, you
TOUCHSTONE. Holla, you clown!
TOUCHSTONE. I Care not for my spirits, if my legs were not weary.
TOUCHSTONE. I am here with thee and thy goats, as the most
TOUCHSTONE. I do, truly, for thou swear'st to me thou art honest;
TOUCHSTONE. I durst go no further than the Lie Circumstantial, nor
TOUCHSTONE. I will not take her on gift of any man.
TOUCHSTONE. I'll rhyme you so eight years together, dinners, and
TOUCHSTONE. If any man doubt that, let him put me to my purgation.
TOUCHSTONE. Instance, briefly; come, instance.
TOUCHSTONE. It is meat and drink to me to see a clown. By my troth,
TOUCHSTONE. Mistress, you must come away to your father.
TOUCHSTONE. Most shallow man! thou worm's meat in respect of a good
TOUCHSTONE. Nay, I shall ne'er be ware of mine own wit till I break
TOUCHSTONE. Nay, if I keep not my rank-
TOUCHSTONE. No, by mine honour; but I was bid to come for you.
TOUCHSTONE. No, truly, unless thou wert hard-favour'd; for honesty
TOUCHSTONE. No, truly; for the truest poetry is the most feigning,
TOUCHSTONE. O, sir, we quarrel in print by the book, as you have
TOUCHSTONE. Of a certain knight that swore by his honour they were
TOUCHSTONE. One that old Frederick, your father, loves.
TOUCHSTONE. Or as the Destinies decrees.
TOUCHSTONE. Salutation and greeting to you all!
TOUCHSTONE. Stand you both forth now: stroke your chins, and swear
TOUCHSTONE. Such a one is a natural philosopher. Wast ever in
TOUCHSTONE. That is another simple sin in you: to bring the ewes
TOUCHSTONE. The more pity that fools may not speak wisely what wise
TOUCHSTONE. Then learn this of me: to have is to have; for it is a
TOUCHSTONE. Then thou art damn'd.
TOUCHSTONE. Thus men may grow wiser every day. It is the first time
TOUCHSTONE. To-morrow is the joyful day, Audre'y; to-morrow will we
TOUCHSTONE. Trip, Audrey, trip, Audrey. I attend, I attend.
TOUCHSTONE. Truly, and to cast away honesty upon a foul slut were
TOUCHSTONE. Truly, shepherd, in respect of itself, it is a good
TOUCHSTONE. Truly, the tree yields bad fruit.
TOUCHSTONE. Truly, thou art damn'd, like an ill-roasted egg, all on
TOUCHSTONE. Truly, young gentlemen, though there was no great
TOUCHSTONE. Upon a lie seven times removed- bear your body more
TOUCHSTONE. We shall find a time, Audrey; patience, gentle Audrey.
TOUCHSTONE. Well, praised be the gods for thy foulness;
TOUCHSTONE. When a man's verses cannot be understood, nor a man's
TOUCHSTONE. Why, do not your courtier's hands sweat? And is not the
TOUCHSTONE. Why, if thou never wast at court thou never saw'st good
TOUCHSTONE. Why, thou say'st well. I do now remember a saying: 'The
TOUCHSTONE. Wilt thou rest damn'd? God help thee, shallow man! God
TOUCHSTONE. You have said; but whether wisely or no, let the forest
TOUCHSTONE. Your betters, sir.
TOUCHSTONE. Your lips will feel them the sooner. Shallow again. A
TOUCHSTONE. [Aside] I am not in the mind but I were better to be
TULLUS AUFIDIUS, General of the Volscians
TWO VOLSCIAN GUARDS
Teach me, dear creature, how to think and speak;
Teach sin the carriage of a holy saint;
Tell her I am arrested in the street,
Tell me thou art my son Antipholus.
Tell me, and dally not, where is the money?
Tell me, was he arrested on a band?
Th' unviolated honour of your wife.
Than I stand debted to this gentleman.
Than I to speak my griefs unspeakable;
Than our earth's wonder-more than earth, divine.
That I should be attach'd in Ephesus,
That I this day of him receiv'd the chain,
That I was sent for nothing but a rope!
That Time comes stealing on by night and day?
That bore thee at a burden two fair sons.
That by misfortunes was my life prolong'd,
That by this sympathized one day's error
That desp'rately he hurried through the street,
That floated with thee on the fatal raft?
That goldsmith there, were he not pack'd with her,
That hadst a wife once call'd Aemilia,
That hath abused and dishonoured me
That he did buffet thee, and in his blows
That he did plead in earnest? Yea or no?
That he din'd not at home, but was lock'd out.
That he is borne about invisible.
That here and there his fury had committed.
That his attendant-so his case was like,
That in such haste I sent to seek his master!
That in the ocean seeks another drop,
That kitchen'd me for you to-day at dinner;
That like a football you do spurn me thus?
That may with foul intrusion enter in
That mourn'd for fashion, ignorant what to fear,
That never meat sweet-savour'd in thy taste,
That never object pleasing in thine eye,
That never touch well welcome to thy hand,
That never words were music to thine ear,
That others touch and, often touching, will
That she this day hath shameless thrown on me.
That since have felt the vigour of his rage.
That stands on tricks when I am undispos'd.
That stays but till her owner comes aboard,
That then I lost for thee, now grant me justice.
That thou art then estranged from thyself?
That thus so madly thou didst answer me?
That very hour, and in the self-same inn,
That would behold in me this shameful sport.
That would refuse so fair an offer'd chain.
That you beat me at the mart I have your hand to show;
That you would put me to this shame and trouble;
That's cover'd o'er with Turkish tapestry
That's not my fault; he's master of my state.
That, undividable, incorporate,
The Duke, my husband, and my children both,
The beasts, the fishes, and the winged fowls,
The capon burns, the pig falls from the spit;
The chain unfinish'd made me stay thus long.
The children thus dispos'd, my wife and I,
The clock hath strucken twelve upon the bell-
The consequence is, then, thy jealous fits
The debt he owes will be requir'd of me.
The devil will shake her chain, and fright us with it.
The enmity and discord which of late
The fineness of the gold, and chargeful fashion,
The folded meaning of your words' deceit.
The meat is cold because you come not home,
The oil, the balsamum, and aqua-vitx.
The one ne'er got me credit, the other mickle blame.
The passages of alleys, creeks, and narrow lands;
The place of death and sorry execution,
The pleasing punishment that women bear,
The reason that I gather he is mad,
The ring I saw upon his finger now-
The saddler had it, sir; I kept it not.
The sailors sought for safety by our boat,
The seas wax'd calm, and we discovered
The ship is in her trim; the merry wind
The time was once when thou unurg'd wouldst vow
The venom clamours of a jealous woman
The villain is o'erraught of all my money.
Thee will I love, and with thee lead my life;
Then fairly I bespoke the officer
Then for her wealth's sake use her with more kindness;
Then let your will attend on their accords.
Then, gentle brother, get you in again;
There did this perjur'd goldsmith swear me down
There had she not been long but she became
There is a purse of ducats; let her send it.
There is your money that I had to keep.
There left me and my man, both bound together;
There will we dine. This woman that I mean,
There's nothing situate under heaven's eye
Therefore away, to get our stuff aboard.
Therefore by law thou art condemn'd to die.
Therefore depart, and leave him here with me.
Therefore make present satisfaction,
Therefore, merchant, I'll limit thee this day
Therefore, most gracious Duke, with thy command
Thereof the raging fire of fever bred;
These are the parents to these children,
These people saw the chain about his neck.
These two Antipholus', these two so like,
They brought one Pinch, a hungry lean-fac'd villain,
They can be meek that have no other cause.
They fell upon me, bound me, bore me thence,
They must be bound, and laid in some dark room.
They say this town is full of cozenage;
They'll go or come. If so, be patient, sister.
They'll suck our breath, or pinch us black and blue.
Think'st thou I jest? Hold, take thou that, and that.
Thirty-three years have I but gone in travail
This chain you had of me; can you deny it?
This chain, which now you wear so openly.
This fool-begg'd patience in thee will be left.
This is some priory. In, or we are spoil'd.
This is the fairy land. O spite of spites!
This very day a Syracusian merchant
This woman lock'd me out this day from dinner;
Thither I must, although against my will,
Those, for their parents were exceeding poor,
Thou art an elm, my husband, I a vine,
Thou art, as you are all, a sorceress;
Thou drunkard, thou, what didst thou mean by this?
Thou hast no husband yet, nor I no wife.
Thou know'st we parted; but perhaps, my son,
Thou say'st his meat was sauc'd with thy upbraidings:
Thou say'st his sports were hind'red by thy brawls.
Thou sham'st to acknowledge me in misery.
Thou wouldst have chang'd thy face for a name, or thy name for an ass.
Though most dishonestly he doth deny it.
Though now this grained face of mine be hid
Though others have the arm, show us the sleeve;
Thus have you heard me sever'd from my bliss,
Thus he unknown to me should be in debt.
Thy substance, valued at the highest rate,
Thyself I call it, being strange to me,
Till I have brought him to his wits again,
Till I have us'd the approved means I have,
Till that, I'll view the manners of the town,
Till, gnawing with my teeth my bonds in sunder,
Time is their master, and when they see time,
To Adriana, villain, hie thee straight;
To Epidamnum; till my factor's death,
To Persia, and want guilders for my voyage.
To admit no traffic to our adverse towns;
To be disturb'd would mad or man or beast.
To bear the extremity of dire mishap!
To counterfeit thus grossly with your slave,
To do him all the grace and good I could.
To drown me in thy sister's flood of tears.
To give me ample satisfaction
To go in person with me to my house.
To go with us into the abbey here,
To her will we to dinner.  [To ANGELO]  Get you home
To him one of the other twins was bound,
To know the reason of this strange restraint.
To make a loathsome abject scorn of me;
To make a rescue?
To make it wander in an unknown field?
To make of him a formal man again.
To merchants, our well-dealing countrymen,
To pay the saddler for my mistress' crupper?
To put the finger in the eye and weep,
To quit the penalty and to ransom him.
To scorch your face, and to disfigure you.
To see the making of her carcanet,
To seek thy help by beneficial hap.
To separate the husband and the wife.
To tell sad stories of my own mishaps.
To walk where any honest men resort.
To warrant thee, as I am 'rested for.
To yield possession to my holy prayers,
To your notorious shame, I doubt it not.
To-day did dine together. So befall my soul
Transform me, then, and to your pow'r I'll yield.
Try all the friends thou hast in Ephesus;
Two ships from far making amain to us-
Unkindness blunts it more than marble hard.
Unless I spake, or look'd, or touch'd, or carv'd to thee.
Unless a thousand marks be levied,
Unless it be by inspiration?
Unquiet meals make ill digestions;
Unseen, inquisitive, confounds himself.
Until I know this sure uncertainty,
Unto a woman, happy but for me,
Unwilling, I agreed. Alas! too soon
Upon mine hostess there; good sir, make haste.
Upon what bargain do you give it me?
Usurping ivy, brier, or idle moss;
VALERIA, friend to Virgilia
VALERIA. Come, lay aside your stitchery; I must have you play the
VALERIA. Fie, you confine yourself most unreasonably; come, you
VALERIA. How do you both? You are manifest housekeepers. What are
VALERIA. In earnest, it's true; I heard a senator speak it. Thus it
VALERIA. In troth, I think she would. Fare you well, then. Come,
VALERIA. In troth, there's wondrous things spoke of him.
VALERIA. In truth, la, go with me; and I'll tell you excellent news
VALERIA. Indeed, la, 'tis a noble child.
VALERIA. My ladies both, good day to you.
VALERIA. Not out of doors!
VALERIA. O' my word, the father's son! I'll swear 'tis a very
VALERIA. Verily, I do not jest with you; there came news from him
VALERIA. Well then, farewell.                           Exeunt
VALERIA. You would be another Penelope; yet they say all the yarn
VIRGILIA, wife to Coriolanus
VIRGILIA. 'Tis not to save labour, nor that I want love.
VIRGILIA. A crack, madam.
VIRGILIA. Beseech you give me leave to retire myself.
VIRGILIA. But had he died in the business, madam, how then?
VIRGILIA. Give me excuse, good madam; I will obey you in everything
VIRGILIA. Heavens bless my lord from fell Aufidius!
VIRGILIA. His bloody brow? O Jupiter, no blood!
VIRGILIA. I am glad to see your ladyship.
VIRGILIA. I thank your ladyship; well, good madam.
VIRGILIA. I will wish her speedy strength, and visit her with my
VIRGILIA. Indeed, madam?
VIRGILIA. Indeed, no, by your patience; I'll not over the threshold
VIRGILIA. No, at a word, madam; indeed I must not. I wish you much
VIRGILIA. No, good madam, pardon me; indeed I will not forth.
VIRGILIA. No, good madam; I will not out of doors.
VIRGILIA. O, good madam, there can be none yet.
VIRGILIA. O, no, no, no.
VIRGILIA. The gods grant them true!
VIRGILIA. Yes, certain, there's a letter for you; I saw't.
VOLUMNIA, VIRGILIA. Nay, 'tis true.
VOLUMNIA, mother to Coriolanus
VOLUMNIA. Away, you fool! It more becomes a man
VOLUMNIA. Ay, worthy Menenius, and with most prosperous
VOLUMNIA. Good ladies, let's go. Yes, yes, yes: the Senate has
VOLUMNIA. He had before this last expedition twenty-five wounds
VOLUMNIA. He had rather see the swords and hear a drum than look
VOLUMNIA. He'll beat Aufidius' head below his knee
VOLUMNIA. Honourable Menenius, my boy Marcius approaches; for the
VOLUMNIA. I have lived
VOLUMNIA. I know not where to turn.
VOLUMNIA. I pray you, daughter, sing, or express yourself in a more
VOLUMNIA. I' th' shoulder and i' th' left arm; there will be large
VOLUMNIA. Indeed you shall not.
VOLUMNIA. Let her alone, lady; as she is now, she will but disease
VOLUMNIA. Look, here's a letter from him; the state hath another,
VOLUMNIA. Nay, my good soldier, up;
VOLUMNIA. O, he is wounded, I thank the gods for't.
VOLUMNIA. On's brows, Menenius, he comes the third time home with
VOLUMNIA. One on's father's moods.
VOLUMNIA. She shall, she shall.
VOLUMNIA. Sweet madam!
VOLUMNIA. Then his good report should have been my son; I therein
VOLUMNIA. These are the ushers of Marcius. Before him he carries
VOLUMNIA. Titus Lartius writes they fought together, but Aufidius
VOLUMNIA. True! pow, waw.
VOLUMNIA. Why, I pray you?
Vicious, ungentle, foolish, blunt, unkind;
WILLIAM, a country fellow, in love with Audrey
WILLIAM. And good ev'n to you, sir.
WILLIAM. Ay, sir, I have a pretty wit.
WILLIAM. Ay, sir, I thank God.
WILLIAM. Faith, sir, so so.
WILLIAM. Five and twenty, sir.
WILLIAM. God rest you merry, sir.                         Exit
WILLIAM. Good ev'n, Audrey.
WILLIAM. I do, sir.
WILLIAM. No, sir.
WILLIAM. Which he, sir?
WILLIAM. William, sir.
Wants wit in all one word to understand.
Was carried towards Corinth, as we thought.
Was carried with more speed before the wind;
Was wrought by nature, not by vile offence,
We being strangers here, how dar'st thou trust
We bid be quiet when we hear it cry;
We came aboard.
We came again to bind them. Then they fled
We came into the world like brother and brother,
We in your motion turn, and you may move us.
We talk with goblins, owls, and sprites.
We were encount'red by a mighty rock,
Weeping before for what she saw must come,
Well, sir, I thank you.
What error drives our eyes and ears amiss?
What have befall'n of them and thee till now.
What is the course and drift of your compact?
What means this jest? I pray you, master, tell me.
What now? How chance thou art return'd so soon?
What observation mad'st thou in this case
What ruins are in me that can be found
What ship of Epidamnum stays for me?
What simple thief brags of his own attaint?
What then became of them I cannot tell;
What to delight in, what to sorrow for.
What, was I married to her in my dream?
What, will you walk with me about the town,
When I am dull with care and melancholy,
When I bestrid thee in the wars, and took
When I desir'd him to come home to dinner,
When he demean'd himself rough, rude, and wildly.
When in the streets he meets such golden gifts.
When in the why and the wherefore is neither rhyme nor reason?
When one is one too many? Go get thee from the door.
When the sun shines let foolish gnats make sport,
When the sweet breath of flattery conquers strife.
When thou didst make him master of thy bed,
When were you wont to use my sister thus?
Where Balthazar and I did dine together.
Where Dowsabel did claim me for her husband.
Where I will walk till thou return to me.
Where gold; and no man that hath a name
Where have you left the money that I gave you?
Where is the gold I gave in charge to thee?
Where is the thousand marks thou hadst of me?
Where would you had remain'd until this time,
Which accidentally are met together.
Which being violently borne upon,
Which doth amount to three odd ducats more
Which he forswore most monstrously to have.
Which of these sorrows is he subject to?
Which princes, would they, may not disannul,
Which though myself would gladly have embrac'd,
Which, God he knows, I saw not; for the which
While she with harlots feasted in my house.
Whilst I at home starve for a merry look.
Whilst I had been like heedful of the other.
Whilst man and master laughs my woes to scorn.
Whilst to take order for the wrongs I went,
Whilst upon me the guilty doors were shut,
Who I made lord of me and all I had
Who all, for want of pruning, with intrusion
Who give their eyes the liberty of gazing.
Who parted with me to go fetch a chain,
Who put unluckily into this bay
Who, but for staying on our controversy,
Who, every word by all my wit being scann'd,
Who, falling there to find his fellow forth,
Who, wanting guilders to redeem their lives,
Whom whilst I laboured of a love to see,
Whose beard they have sing'd off with brands of fire;
Whose weakness, married to thy stronger state,
Why at this time the doors are made against you.
Why bear you these rebukes, and answer not?
Why thou departed'st from thy native home,
Will lose his beauty; yet the gold bides still
Will you go with me? We'll mend our dinner here.
Will you send him, mistress, redemption, the money in his desk?
Will you walk in to see their gossiping?
With circumstance and oaths so to deny
With her I liv'd in joy; our wealth increas'd
With him his bondman all as mad as he,
With lesser weight, but not with lesser woe,
With urging helpless patience would relieve me;
With wholesome syrups, drugs, and holy prayers,
Within this hour it will be dinner-time;
Without addition or diminishing,
Worthily term'd them merciless to us!
Would that alone a love he would detain,
Wouldst thou not spit at me and spurn at me,
YOUNG MARCIUS, son to Coriolanus
Yet hath my night of life some memory,
Yet the incessant weepings of my wife,
Yet will I favour thee in what I can.
Yet, that the world may witness that my end
You are not Pinch's patient, are you, sir?
You come not home because you have no stomach,
You have done wrong to this my honest friend;
You have no stomach, having broke your fast;
You know no Centaur! You receiv'd no gold!
You say he din'd at home: the goldsmith here
You sent me to the bay, sir, for a bark.
You spurn me hence, and he will spurn me hither;
You would keep from my heels, and beware of an ass.
Your breach of promise to the Porpentine;
Your cake here is warm within; you stand here in the cold;
Your mistress sent to have me home to dinner!
Your own handwriting would tell you what I think.
Your sauciness will jest upon my love,
Your weeping sister is no wife of mine,
adversity.
amaz'd, ran from her as a witch.
and all grease; and I know not what use to put her to but
and therefore to the world's end will have bald followers.
another dry basting.
as a man may not speak of without he say 'Sir-reverence.'
as much to say 'God make me a light wench!' It is written
ballast at her nose.
beating; when I am warm he cools me with beating. I am
beggar wont her brat; and I think, when he hath lam'd me,
being a very beastly creature, lays claim to me.
blows, and so is an ass.
boy Delay. Here are the angels that you sent for to deliver you.
but that Adam that keeps the prison; he that goes in the
but words.
by my long 'ears. I have served him from the hour of my
calf's skin that was kill'd for the Prodigal; he that came behind
chin, by the salt rheum that ran between France and it.
conclude: this drudge or diviner laid claim to me; call'd me
could find in my heart to stay here still and turn witch.
could find no whiteness in them; but I guess it stood in her
could not do it.
dam, and here she comes in the habit of a light wench; and
dost thou mad me?
ears can witness.
every why hath a wherefore.
exploits with his mace than a morris-pike.
for. What, have you got the picture of old Adam new-apparell'd?
from hip to hip: she is spherical, like a globe; I could find
give you nothing for something. But say, sir, is it dinnertime?
given them in wit.
go over shoes in the grime of it.
gold; methinks they are such a gentle nation that, but for
good cheer.
hair lost by nature.
hair, being, as it is, so plentiful an excrement?
hath more hair than wit.
her breath.
her from hip to hip.
his hair that grows bald by nature.
hot breath of Spain; who sent whole armadoes of caracks to be
hour since that the bark Expedition put forth to-night; and
insconce it too; or else I shall seek my wit in my shoulders.
is no time for all things.
lay to your horse; and she would have me as a beast: not
leave battering, I had rather have it a head. An you use
making war against her heir.
man, thou art thyself.
marks I had about me, as, the mark of my shoulder, the
me for nothing.
men plain dealers without wit.
might not feel your blows.
mole in my neck, the great wart on my left arm, that I,
my service but blows. When I am cold he heats me with
myself.
nativity to this instant, and have nothing at his hands for
nothing like so clean kept; for why, she sweats, a man may
now, make haste.
of fire, and fire will burn; ergo, light wenches will burn.
on beasts, and what he hath scanted men in hair he hath
or bespeak a long spoon.
out countries in her.
out of doors with it when I go from home; welcom'd home
plain bald pate of Father Time himself.
porridge.
quarters, that's an ell and three quarters, will not measure
rather, to prophesy like the parrot, 'Beware the rope's-end.'
recover the lost hair of another man.
return'd.
rubies, carbuncles, sapphires, declining their rich aspect to the
scarce understand them.
so fast?
soft, who wafts us yonder?
surely do us no harm; you saw they speak us fair, give us
that brings any man to answer it that breaks his band; on
that must eat with the devil.
that thinks a man always going to bed, and says 'God give
that will have me.
that, I being a beast, she would have me; but that she,
that, when gentlemen are tired, gives them a sob, and rest
the bogs.
the city Can witness with me that it is not so:
the mountain of mad flesh that claims marriage of me,
the palm of the hand.
them suits of durance; he that sets up his rest to do more
them; he, sir, that takes pity on decayed men, and give
then were you hind'red by the sergeant, to tarry for the
there any ship puts forth to-night? May we be gone?
there is no time to recover.
there's a time for all things.
thereof comes that the wenches say 'God damn me!' That's
these blows long, I must get a sconce for my head, and
they appear to men like angels of light; light is an effect
tiring; the other, that at dinner they should not drop in his
to a woman-one that claims me, one that haunts me, one
to make a lamp of her and run from her by her own light.
wak'd with it when I sleep; rais'd with it when I sit; driven
week longer than the whole world.
well feel his blows; and withal so doubtfully that I could
went, like a bass-viol, in a case of leather; the man, sir,
were so choleric.
whatsoever a man denies, you are now bound to believe him.
wit to lose his hair.
with it when I return; nay, I bear it on my shoulders as
wondrous fat marriage.
yet he loseth it in a kind of jollity.
you good rest!'
you, sir, like an evil angel, and bid you forsake your liberty.
Exit
Exit
1593
1601
1608
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<Exeunt
<Exeunt
<Exeunt
<Exeunt
<Exeunt
<Exeunt
<Exeunt
<Exeunt ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE and ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS
<Exeunt ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE and DROMIO OF SYRACUSE
<Exeunt ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE and DROMIO OF SYRACUSE to the priory
<Exeunt all but ADRIANA, LUCIANA, OFFICERS, and COURTEZAN
<Exeunt all but ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE and
<Exeunt all but ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE, ANTIPHOLUS OF
<Exeunt all but DROMIO
<Exit
<Exit
<Exit
<Exit
<Exit
<Exit
<Exit
<Exit
<Exit
<Exit
<Exit DROMIO
<Exit FIRST MERCHANT
<Exit LUCIANA
<Exit one to the ABBESS
A COURTEZAN
A field of battle between the Roman and the Volscian camps
A flourish. Cornets. Enter TULLUS AUFIDIUS bloody, with two or three soldiers
A hall in the DUKE'S palace
A lawn before the DUKE'S palace
A public place
A street
A street before a priory
A table set out. Enter DUKE SENIOR, AMIENS, and LORDS, like outlaws
ABBESS. And thereof came it that the man was mad.
ABBESS. Ay, but not enough.
ABBESS. Ay, but not rough enough.
ABBESS. Be patient; for I will not let him stir
ABBESS. Be quiet, and depart; thou shalt not have him.
ABBESS. Be quiet, people. Wherefore throng you hither?
ABBESS. By men of Epidamnum he and I
ABBESS. Haply in private.
ABBESS. Hath he not lost much wealth by wreck of sea?
ABBESS. How long hath this possession held the man?
ABBESS. Most mighty Duke, behold a man much wrong'd.
ABBESS. Neither; he took this place for sanctuary,
ABBESS. No, not a creature enters in my house.
ABBESS. Renowned Duke, vouchsafe to take the pains
ABBESS. Whoever bound him, I will loose his bonds,
ABBESS. You should for that have reprehended him.
ACT I. SCENE 1
ACT I. SCENE I.
ACT I. SCENE I.
ACT II. SCENE I.
ACT II. SCENE I.
ACT III. SCENE 1
ACT III. SCENE I.
ACT IV. SCENE 1
ACT IV. SCENE I.
ACT Il. SCENE 1
ACT V. SCENE 1
ACT V. SCENE I.
ACT_5|SC_1
ACT_5|SC_2
ADRIANA, wife to Antipholus of Ephesus
ADRIANA.  [Within]  Who is that at the door, that keeps all this noise?
ADRIANA.  [Within]  Your wife, sir knave! Go get you from the door.
ADRIANA. Ah, Luciana, did he tempt thee so?
ADRIANA. Ah, but I think him better than I say,
ADRIANA. Alas, I sent you money to redeem you,
ADRIANA. And are not you my husband?
ADRIANA. And come with naked swords.
ADRIANA. And in assemblies too.
ADRIANA. And true he swore, though yet forsworn he were.
ADRIANA. And what said he?
ADRIANA. As if Time were in debt! How fondly dost thou reason!
ADRIANA. As roughly as my modesty would let me.
ADRIANA. Ay me, it is my husband! Witness you
ADRIANA. Ay, ay, Antipholus, look strange and frown.
ADRIANA. Ay; and let none enter, lest I break your pate.
ADRIANA. Back, slave, or I will break thy pate across.
ADRIANA. But say, I prithee, is he coming home?
ADRIANA. But, were you wedded, you would bear some sway.
ADRIANA. By thee; and this thou didst return from him-
ADRIANA. Come, come, no longer will I be a fool,
ADRIANA. Come, go; I will fall prostrate at his feet,
ADRIANA. Didst speak him fair?
ADRIANA. Dissembling villain, thou speak'st false in both.
ADRIANA. Go back again, thou slave, and fetch him home.
ADRIANA. Go bear him hence. Sister, go you with me.
ADRIANA. Go fetch it, sister.  [Exit LUCIANA]  This I wonder at:
ADRIANA. Go, Dromio, there's the money; bear it straight,
ADRIANA. He came to me, and I deliver'd it.
ADRIANA. He did bespeak a chain for me, but had it not.
ADRIANA. He meant he did me none-the more my spite.
ADRIANA. Hence, prating peasant! Fetch thy master home.
ADRIANA. His company must do his minions grace,
ADRIANA. His incivility confirms no less.
ADRIANA. Hold, hurt him not, for God's sake! He is mad.
ADRIANA. Horn-mad, thou villain!
ADRIANA. How if your husband start some other where?
ADRIANA. How ill agrees it with your gravity
ADRIANA. I cannot, nor I will not hold me still;
ADRIANA. I did not, gentle husband, lock thee forth.
ADRIANA. I know the man. What is the sum he owes?
ADRIANA. I see two husbands, or mine eyes deceive me.
ADRIANA. I sent you money, sir, to be your bail,
ADRIANA. I will attend my husband, be his nurse,
ADRIANA. I will discharge thee ere I go from thee;
ADRIANA. I will not hence and leave my husband here;
ADRIANA. Is't good to soothe him in these contraries?
ADRIANA. It may be so, but I did never see it.
ADRIANA. It was the copy of our conference.
ADRIANA. Justice, most sacred Duke, against the Abbess!
ADRIANA. Look when I serve him so, he takes it ill.
ADRIANA. May it please your Grace, Antipholus, my husband,
ADRIANA. Neither my husband nor the slave return'd
ADRIANA. No, my good lord. Myself, he, and my sister,
ADRIANA. O husband, God doth know you din'd at home,
ADRIANA. O, bind him, bind him; let him not come near me.
ADRIANA. O, that thou wert not, poor distressed soul!
ADRIANA. Patience unmov'd! no marvel though she pause:
ADRIANA. Peace, fool! thy master and his man are here,
ADRIANA. Say, didst thou speak with him? Know'st thou his mind?
ADRIANA. Say, how grows it due?
ADRIANA. Say, is your tardy master now at hand?
ADRIANA. She did betray me to my own reproof.
ADRIANA. The hours come back! That did I never hear.
ADRIANA. Then let your servants bring my husband forth.
ADRIANA. There's none but asses will be bridled so.
ADRIANA. This servitude makes you to keep unwed.
ADRIANA. This week he hath been heavy, sour, sad,
ADRIANA. To fetch my poor distracted husband hence.
ADRIANA. To none of these, except it be the last;
ADRIANA. Unfeeling fools can with such wrongs dispense.
ADRIANA. What wilt thou do, thou peevish officer?
ADRIANA. What, is he arrested? Tell me, at whose suit?
ADRIANA. What, the chain?
ADRIANA. Where is thy master, Dromio? Is he well?
ADRIANA. Which of you two did dine with me to-day?
ADRIANA. Why should their liberty than ours be more?
ADRIANA. Why, man, what is the matter?
ADRIANA. Why, so I did.
ADRIANA. With what persuasion did he tempt thy love?
AEGEON, a merchant of Syracuse
AEGEON. A heavier task could not have been impos'd
AEGEON. But seven years since, in Syracuse, boy,
AEGEON. Dromio, nor thou?
AEGEON. Hopeless and helpless doth Aegeon wend,
AEGEON. I am sure thou dost.
AEGEON. I am sure you both of you remember me.
AEGEON. If I dream not, thou art Aemilia.
AEGEON. Is not your name, sir, call'd Antipholus?
AEGEON. Most mighty Duke, vouchsafe me speak a word:
AEGEON. My youngest boy, and yet my eldest care,
AEGEON. Not know my voice! O time's extremity,
AEGEON. O! grief hath chang'd me since you saw me last;
AEGEON. O, had the gods done so, I had not now
AEGEON. Proceed, Solinus, to procure my fall,
AEGEON. Unless the fear of death doth make me dote,
AEGEON. Why look you strange on me? You know me well.
AEGEON. Yet this my comfort: when your words are done,
AEMILIA, wife to AEgeon; an abbess at Ephesus
ANGELO, a goldsmith
ANGELO. 'Tis so; and that self chain about his neck
ANGELO. Come, come, you know I gave it you even now.
ANGELO. Even just the sum that I do owe to you
ANGELO. He had, my lord, and when he ran in here,
ANGELO. Here is neither cheer, sir, nor welcome; we would fain have either.
ANGELO. Here is thy fee; arrest him, officer.
ANGELO. I am sorry, sir, that I have hind'red you;
ANGELO. I knew he was not in his perfect wits.
ANGELO. I know it well, sir. Lo, here is the chain.
ANGELO. I think I did, sir; I deny it not.
ANGELO. I'll meet you at that place some hour hence.
ANGELO. Master Antipholus!
ANGELO. My lord, in truth, thus far I witness with him,
ANGELO. Nay, come, I pray you, sir, give me the chain;
ANGELO. Not once nor twice, but twenty times you have.
ANGELO. O peflur'd woman! They are both forsworn.
ANGELO. Of very reverend reputation, sir,
ANGELO. Saving your merry humour, here's the note
ANGELO. See where they come; we will behold his death.
ANGELO. Sir, sir, I shall have law in Ephesus,
ANGELO. That is the chain, sir, which you had of me.
ANGELO. The money that you owe me for the chain.
ANGELO. Then you will bring the chain to her yourself?
ANGELO. This touches me in reputation.
ANGELO. Upon what cause?
ANGELO. Well, sir, I will. Have you the chain about you?
ANGELO. What please yourself, sir; I have made it for you.
ANGELO. You are a merry man, sir; fare you well.
ANGELO. You hear how he importunes me-the chain!
ANGELO. You know I gave it you half an hour since.
ANGELO. You wrong me more, sir, in denying it.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS twin brothers and sons to
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. 'Tis true, my liege; this ring I had of her.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. A man is well holp up that trusts to you!
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. An if I have not, sir, I hope you have;
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. And did not I in rage depart from thence?
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. And did not she herself revile me there?
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. And to that end, sir, I will welcome you.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. And welcome more common; for that's nothing
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. And you, sir, for this chain arrested me.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Are you there, wife? You might
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Ay, to a niggardly host and more sparing guest.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Brought to this town by that most famous warrior,
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. But where's the money?
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Come, go along; my wife is coming yonder.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Consent to pay thee that I never had!
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Did not her kitchen-maid rail, taunt, and scorn me?
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Din'd at home! Thou villain, what sayest thou?
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Dissembling harlot, thou art false in all,
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Do so; this jest shall cost me some expense.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Do you hear, you minion? You'll let us in, I hope?
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Dromio, what stuff of mine hast thou embark'd?
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Fear me not, man; I will not break away.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Fie, now you run this humour out of breath!
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Five hundred ducats, villain, for rope?
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Go fetch me something; I'll break ope the gate.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Go get thee gone; fetch me an iron crow.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Good Lord! you use this dalliance to excuse
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Good Signior Angelo, you must excuse us all;
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. How now! a madman? Why, thou peevish sheep,
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. I Will debate this matter at more leisure,
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. I am not furnish'd with the present money;
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. I answer you! What should I answer you?
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. I came from Corinth, my most gracious lord.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. I do obey thee till I give thee bail.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. I never came within these abbey walls,
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. I never saw my father in my life.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. I never saw you in my life till now.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. I owe you none till I receive the chain.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. I think thou art an ass.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. My liege, I am advised what I say;
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Neither.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. No; I say nay to that.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. No; bear it with you, lest I come not time enough.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. O most unhappy strumpet!
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. O, Signior Balthazar, either at flesh or fish,
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Out on thee, villian! Wherefore
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Peace, doting wizard, peace! I am not mad.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Say, wherefore didst thou lock me forth to-day?
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. THOU drunken slave! I sent the for a rope;
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. The Duke and all that know me in
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. There is my hand, and let it feel your ear.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. There is something in the wind, that we cannot get in.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. There, take it; and much thanks for my
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. These ducats pawn I for my father here.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Thou art sensible in nothing but
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Thou baggage, let me in.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Thou hast suborn'd the goldsmith to arrest me.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Thou whoreson, senseless villain!
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. To what end did I bid thee hie thee home?
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Well, I'll break in; go borrow me a crow.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Went'st not thou to her for purse of ducats?
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Were not my doors lock'd up and I shut out?
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. What art thou that keep'st me out
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. What, will you murder me? Thou gaoler, thou,
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Wherefore? For my dinner;
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. While I go to the goldsmith's house, go thou
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Who talks within there? Ho, open the door!
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Why, give it to my wife, and fetch your money.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Wilt thou still talk?
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Y'are sad, Signior Balthazar; pray God our cheer
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. You gave me none; you wrong me much to say so.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. You have prevail'd. I will depart in quiet,
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. You minion, you, are these your customers?
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. You'll cry for this, minion, if beat the door down.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE Aegion and Aemelia
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. A trusty villain, sir, that very oft,
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Aegeon, art thou not? or else his
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Am I in earth, in heaven, or in hell?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. And so do I, yet did she call me so;
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. As good to wink, sweet love, as look on night.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Avaunt, thou witch! Come, Dromio, let us go.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Avoid then, fiend! What tell'st thou me of supping?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Ay, that's my name.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Because that I familiarly sometimes
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. But your reason was not substantial, why
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. By Dromio?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. By what rule, sir?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Call thyself sister, sweet, for I am thee;
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Come to the Centaur; fetch our stuff from thence.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Come, Dromio, come, these jests are out of season;
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Did you converse, sir, with this gentlewoman?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Dost thou not know?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Even now, even here, not half an hour since.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Farewell till then. I will go lose myself,
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. For gazing on your beams, fair sun, being by.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. For what reason?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Go bear it to the Centaur, where we host.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Go hie thee presently post to the road;
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. He speaks to me. I am your master, Dromio.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. He that commends me to mine own content
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. How can she thus, then, call us by our names,
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. How dost thou mean a fat marriage?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. I am not in a sportive humour now;
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. I knew 't'would be a bald conclusion. But,
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. I pray you, sir, receive the money now,
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. I see these witches are afraid of swords.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. I think I had; I never did deny it.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. I think it be, sir; I deny it not.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. I think thou art in mind, and so am I.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. I understand thee not.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. I will not stay to-night for all the town;
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. I'll make you amends next, to
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. I, gentle mistress.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. In good time, sir, what's that?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. In what part of her body stands Ireland?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. It is the devil.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Let's hear it.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Made it for me, sir! I bespoke it not.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. May he not do it by fine and recovery?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Name them.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Nay, not sound I pray you.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Nay, not sure, in a thing falsing.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. No, sir, not I; I came from Syracuse.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. No;
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Not mad, but mated; how, I do not know.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Now, as I am a Christian, answer me
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Plead you to me, fair dame? I know you not:
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Satan, avoid! I charge thee, tempt me not.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Shall I tell you why?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Stop in your wind, sir; tell me this, I pray:
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Sweet mistress-what your name is else, I know not,
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Thank me, sir! for what?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. That's a fault that water will mend.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. The fellow is distract, and so am I;
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. The gold I gave to Dromio is laid up
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Then she bears some breadth?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. There's none but witches do inhabit here,
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. There's not a man I meet but doth salute me
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. This purse of ducats I receiv'd from you,
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Thou art Dromio, thou art my
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Thou art a villain to impeach me thus;
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Thou hast thine own form.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Thy mistress' marks! What mistress, slave, hast thou?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Thy sister's sister.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. To me she speaks; she moves me for her theme.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Upon my life, by some device or other
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Villain, thou didst deny the gold's receipt,
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Villain, thou liest; for even her very words
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Well, sir, learn to jest in good time;
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Well, sir, then 'twill be dry.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Well, sir, there rest in your foolery. Is
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. What I should think of this cannot tell:
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. What claim lays she to thee?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. What complexion is she of?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. What gold is this? What Adam dost thou mean?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. What is she?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. What is your will that I shall do with this?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. What woman's man, and how besides thyself?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. What's her name?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. What, thou mean'st an officer?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. What, wilt thou flout me thus unto my face,
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Where America, the Indies?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Where England?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Where France?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Where Scotland?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Where Spain?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Where stood Belgia, the Netherlands?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Who heard me to deny it or forswear it?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Why is Time such a niggard of
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Why, Dromio?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Why, but there's many a man
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Why, first for flouting me; and then wherefore,
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Why, how now, Dromio! Where run'st thou
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Why, thou didst conclude hairy
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Yea, dost thou jeer and flout me in the teeth?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. You would all this time have prov'd there
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Your reason?
ANTIPHOLUS OFEPHESUS. Justice, most gracious Duke; O, grant me justice!
ANTIPHOLUS OFEPHESUS. Justice, sweet Prince, against that woman there!
ANTIPHOLUS OFEPHESUS. This day, great Duke, she shut the doors upon me,
AS YOU LIKE IT
Alarum, as in battle. Enter MARCIUS and AUFIDIUS at several doors
Another part of the forest
Another part of the forest
BALTHAZAR, a merchant
BALTHAZAR. Good meat, sir, is common; that every churl affords.
BALTHAZAR. Have patience, sir; O, let it not be so!
BALTHAZAR. I hold your dainties cheap, sir, and your welcome dear.
BALTHAZAR. In debating which was best, we shall part with neither.
BALTHAZAR. Small cheer and great welcome makes a merry feast.
Before Corioli
Before OLIVER'S house
Before the house of ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS
Before the house of ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS
COMINIUS with the Romans; at another door, MARCIUS, with his arm in a scarf
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COURTEZAN. As sure, my liege, as I do see your Grace.
COURTEZAN. Give me the ring of mine you had at dinner,
COURTEZAN. He did; and from my finger snatch'd that ring.
COURTEZAN. How say you now? Is not your husband mad?
COURTEZAN. I pray you, sir, my ring, or else the chain;
COURTEZAN. Mark how he trembles in his ecstasy.
COURTEZAN. Now, out of doubt, Antipholus is mad,
COURTEZAN. Sir, I must have that diamond from you.
COURTEZAN. Well met, well met, Master Antipholus.
COURTEZAN. When as your husband, all in rage, to-day
COURTEZAN. Your man and you are marvellous merry, sir.
Corioli. The Senate House.
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DRAMATIS PERSONAE
DRAMATIS PERSONAE.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS twin brothers, and attendants on
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. A crow without feather? Master, mean you so?
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. A man may break a word with you,
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Am I so round with you, as you with me,
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. And I with him.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. And he will bless that cross with other beating;
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. And, gentle master, I receiv'd no gold;
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Ay, ay, he told his mind upon mine ear.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Ay, sir, but I am sure I do not; and
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Certes, she did; the kitchen-vestal scorn'd you.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Go back again, and be new beaten home?
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. God and the rope-maker bear me witness
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Here's that, I warrant you, will pay them all.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Here's too much 'out upon thee!' pray thee let me in.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. I am an ass indeed; you may prove it
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. I buy a thousand pound a year; I buy a rope.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. I have some marks of yours upon my pate,
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. I mean not cuckold-mad;
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. I pray you jest, sir, as you sit at dinner.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. I would I were senseless, sir, that I
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. I'll serve you, sir, five hundred at the rate.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. I, Sir, am Dromio; pray let me stay.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. If YOU went in pain, master, this 'knave' would go sore.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. In verity, you did. My bones bear witness,
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Let my master in, Luce.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Marry, so it doth appear
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Master, I am here ent'red in bond for you.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Master, knock the door hard.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Maud, Bridget, Marian, Cicely, Gillian, Ginn!
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Methinks you are my glass, and not my brother;
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Mistress, 'respice finem,' respect your end; or
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Money by me! Heart and goodwill you might,
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. My charge was but to fetch you from the mart
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Nay, 'tis for me to be patient; I am in
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Nay, he struck so plainly I could to
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Nay, he's at two hands with me, and that my two
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Nay, rather persuade him to hold his hands.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Nay, then, thus:
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. No, none by me.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. No, trust me, sir, nor I.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. O Lord, I must laugh!
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. O Villain, thou hast stol'n both mine
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. O-Sixpence that I had a Wednesday last
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Ourselves we do remember, sir, by you;
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Perdie, your doors were lock'd and you shut out.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Quoth my master.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Return'd so soon! rather approach'd too late.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. SO, Come, help: well struck! there was blow for blow.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Sans fable, she herself revil'd you there.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Say what you will, sir, but I know what I know.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Sir, Sooth to say, you did not dine at home.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Sir, he din'd with her there, at the Porpentine.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. That's a question; how shall we try it?
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. They stand at the door, master; bid them welcome hither.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. To a rope's-end, sir; and to that end am I
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. To me, sir? Why, you gave no gold to me.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. What mean you, sir? For God's sake hold your hands!
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. What patch is made our porter?
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Why, mistress, sure my master is horn-mad.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Why, sir, I gave the money for the rope.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Will you be bound for nothing?
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Within this hour I was his bondman, sir,
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. You would say so, master, if your garments were thin.
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Your worship's wife, my mistress at the Phoenix;
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE as fast as may be, frighted
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE the two Antipholuses
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE.  [Within]  And you said no.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE.  [Within]  Ay, when fowls have no
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE.  [Within]  Break any breaking here,
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE.  [Within]  By my troth, your town is
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE.  [Within]  If thy name be called Luce
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE.  [Within]  It seems thou want'st breaking;
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE.  [Within]  Let him walk from whence he came,
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE.  [Within]  Nor to-day here you must not;
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE.  [Within]  Right, sir; I'll tell you when,
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE.  [Within]  The porter for this time,
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. 'Fly pride' says the peacock. Mistress, that you know.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. 'Tis true; she rides me, and I long for grass.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. A ship you sent me to, to hire waftage.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. A very reverent body; ay, such a one
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. As from a bear a man would run for life,
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Ay, sir, and wherefore; for they say
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Ay, sir, the sergeant of the band;
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Basting.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Because it is a blessing that he bestows
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. By me?
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. By running fast.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Certain ones, then.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Do you know me, sir? Am I Dromio?
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Faith, I saw it not, but I felt it hot in
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Faith, stay here this night; they will
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. For two; and sound ones too.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Here go-the desk, the purse. Sweet
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Hold, sir, for God's sake! Now your jest is earnest.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. I am an ass, I am a woman's man, and besides
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. I am glad to see you in this merry vein.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. I am transformed, master, am not I?
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. I did not see you since you sent me hence,
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. I do not know the matter; he is rested on the case.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. I durst have denied that, before you
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. I found it by the barrenness, hard in
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. I know not at whose suit he is arrested well;
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. I look'd for the chalky cliffs, but I
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. I never spake with her in all my life.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. I, Sir? I never saw her till this time.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. I, sir, am Dromio; command him away.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. If it be, sir, I pray you eat none of it.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. In her forehead, arm'd and reverted,
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Lest it make you choleric, and purchase me
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Many a man would take you at your word,
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Marry, and did, sir; namely, no time to recover
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Marry, he must have a long spoon
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Marry, sir, besides myself, I am due
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Marry, sir, by a rule as plain as the
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Marry, sir, for this something that you gave
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Marry, sir, in her buttocks; I found it out by
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Marry, sir, she's the kitchen-wench,
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Marry, sir, such claim as you would
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Master, here's the gold you sent me
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Master, if you do, expect spoon-meat,
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Master, is this Mistress Satan?
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Master, shall I be porter at the gate?
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Master, shall I fetch your stuff from shipboard?
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Master, there's a bark of Epidamnum
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Nay, master, both in mind and in my shape.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Nay, she is worse, she is the devil's
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Nell, sir; but her name and three
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. No longer from head to foot than
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. No, I am an ape.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. No, he's in Tartar limbo, worse than hell.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. No, no, the bell; 'tis time that I were gone.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. No, sir, 'tis in grain; Noah's flood
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. No, sir; I think the meat wants that I have.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. No? Why, 'tis a plain case: he that
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Not I, sir; you are my elder.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Not a man of those but he hath the
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Not that Adam that kept the Paradise,
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Nothing, sir, but that I am beaten.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. O yes. If any hour meet a sergeant,
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. O, Sir, I did not look so low. To
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. O, for my beads! I cross me for sinner.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. O, my old master! who hath bound
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. O, sir, upon her nose, an o'er embellished with
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Run, master, run; for God's sake take a house.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Sconce, call you it? So you would
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. She that would be your wife now ran from you.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Some devils ask but the parings of one's nail,
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Sure ones, then.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Swart, like my shoe; but her face
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. The one, to save the money that he spends in
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. The plainer dealer, the sooner lost;
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. There is a fat friend at your master's house,
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. There's no time for a man to recover
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Thus I mend it: Time himself is bald,
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Time is a very bankrupt, and owes
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. To Adriana! that is where we din'd,
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Was there ever any man thus beaten out of season,
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. We'll draw cuts for the senior; till then,
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. What answer, sir? When spake I such a word?
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Why, sir, I brought you word an
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. YOU sent me for a rope's end as soon-
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Yes, to pay a fine for a periwig, and
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Your goods that lay at host, sir, in the Centaur.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. [Within] Mome, malt-horse, capon, coxcomb, idiot, patch!
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. on a band, but on a stronger thing,
DUKE. A grievous fault. Say, woman, didst thou so?
DUKE. And, for the sake of them thou sorrowest for,
DUKE. But had he such a chain of thee, or no?
DUKE. Come, stand by me; fear nothing. Guard with halberds.
DUKE. Discover how, and thou shalt find me just.
DUKE. Hapless, Aegeon, whom the fates have mark'd
DUKE. I tell thee, Syracusian, twenty years
DUKE. It shall not need; thy father hath his life.
DUKE. Long since thy husband serv'd me in my wars,
DUKE. Merchant of Syracuse, plead no more;
DUKE. Nay, forward, old man, do not break off so;
DUKE. One of these men is genius to the other;
DUKE. Saw'st thou him enter at the abbey here?
DUKE. She is a virtuous and a reverend lady;
DUKE. Speak freely, Syracusian, what thou wilt.
DUKE. Stay, stand apart; I know not which is which.
DUKE. Well, Syracusian, say in brief the cause
DUKE. Why, here begins his morning story right.
DUKE. Why, this is strange. Go call the Abbess hither.
DUKE. Why, what an intricate impeach is this!
DUKE. With all my heart, I'll gossip at this feast.
DUKE. Yet once again proclaim it publicly,
Dramatis Personae
EPHESUS, DROMIO OF SYRACUSE, and DROMIO OF EPHESUS
EPILOGUE
Enter ADRIANA and LUCIANA
Enter ADRIANA and LUCIANA
Enter ADRIANA, LUCIANA, the COURTEZAN, and OTHERS
Enter ADRIANA, LUCIANA, the COURTEZAN, and a SCHOOLMASTER
Enter ADRIANA, wife to ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS, with LUCIANA, her sister
Enter ADRIANA, within
Enter AMIENS, JAQUES, and OTHERS
Enter ANGELO with the chain
Enter ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS with the OFFICER
Enter ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS, DROMIO OF EPHESUS, ANGELO, and BALTHAZAR
Enter ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS, and DROMIO OF EPHESUS, from the COURTEZAN'S
Enter ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE
Enter ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE
Enter ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE and DROMIO OF SYRACUSE
Enter ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE, DROMIO OF SYRACUSE, and FIRST MERCHANT
Enter ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE, with his rapier drawn, and
Enter ANTIPHOLUS OFEPHESUS and DROMIO OFEPHESUS
Enter CELIA and ROSALIND
Enter COMINIUS, as it were in retire, with soldiers
Enter DROMIO OF EPHESUS
Enter DROMIO OF EPHESUS
Enter DROMIO OF EPHESUS, with a rope's-end
Enter DROMIO OF SYRACUSE
Enter DROMIO OF SYRACUSE
Enter DROMIO OF SYRACUSE, from the bay
Enter DROMIO OF SYRACUSE.
Enter DROMIO OF SYRACUSE.
Enter DUKE FREDERICK, OLIVER, and LORDS
Enter DUKE FREDERICK, with LORDS
Enter DUKE SENIOR, AMIENS, JAQUES, ORLANDO, OLIVER, and CELIA
Enter DUKE SENIOR, AMIENS, and two or three LORDS, like foresters
Enter LUCE, within
Enter LUCIANA with ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE
Enter MARCIUS, TITUS LARTIUS, with drum and colours,
Enter MENENIUS, with the two Tribunes of the people, SICINIUS and BRUTUS
Enter ORLANDO and ADAM
Enter ORLANDO and ADAM
Enter ORLANDO and ADAM, meeting
Enter ORLANDO and OLIVER
Enter ORLANDO, with a paper
Enter ROSALIND and CELIA
Enter ROSALIND and CE