










Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
[Drinks]
Exit ARIEL
Exit BIANCA
They fight.
[Beats him]
Exit SERVANT
Whistle Boy.
Exeunt omnes.
Exit [Friar].
Juliet rises.
[Strikes him]
[They retire]
Exit BIONDELLO
Exit KATHERINA
Exit SERVILIUS
[Falls asleep]
Exeunt SERVANTS
Exeunt SERVANTS
Exeunt SERVANTS
Exit SERVINGMAN
[They sit down]
[CALIBAN drinks]
[He unbinds her]
[MIRANDA sleeps]
[They stand aside]
[They stand aside]
[Exit. Paris falls.]
[Flies after BIANCA]
[KATHERINA complies]
Romeo opens the tomb.
[Drinks to HORTENSIO]
Exeunt some attendants
[Lays down his mantle]
[Presenting HORTENSIO]
Exeunt CUPID and LADIES
[Lays him in the tomb.]
Exeunt all but APEMANTUS
Exeunt all but HORTENSIO
[Sings in GONZALO'S ear]
Exeunt APEMANTUS and FOOL
Exeunt BIANCA and SERVANT
Exit one with the PLAYERS
Exeunt LUCENTIO and BIANCA
Exeunt LUCENTIO and BIANCA
[JUNO descends in her car]
[Snatches Romeo's dagger.]
Exeunt ALCIBIADES and LORDS
Exeunt GREMIO and HORTENSIO
[ALONSO sleeps. Exit ARIEL]
[Exeunt some of the Watch.]
[He wrings him by the ears]
and LUCENTIO with the books
Exeunt ANTONIO and SEBASTIAN
Exeunt some of the SERVINGMEN
[Exeunt others of the Watch.]
Exeunt PETRUCHIO and KATHERINA
Exeunt PETRUCHIO and PETRUCHIO
Exeunt LUCILIUS and OLD ATHENIAN
[PEDANT looks out of the window]
[Throws the meat, etc., at them]
Exeunt all but APEMANTUS and TIMON
EPILOGUE
Enter PLAYERS
Enter SERVILIUS
Exeunt BIANCA, KATHERINA, and WIDOW
Re-enter KATHERINA
SCENE:
Enter BAPTISTA
Enter CURTIS
Enter VINCENTIO
Re-enter BIONDELLO
Re-enter CURTIS
SCENE II.
Enter ARIEL
Enter BIONDELLO
Enter FLAMINIUS
Enter LUCULLUS
Enter PAGE
Re-enter GREMIO
ARIEL'S SONG.
Enter CUPID
Enter PHILOTUS
Enter TAILOR
Exeunt CALIBAN, STEPHANO, and TRINCULO
Exeunt FERDINAND and MIRANDA severally
Exeunt LUCENTIO, BIANCA, and BIONDELLO
Re-enter BIONDELLO
[He draws, and is charmed from moving]
[PROSPERO and ARIEL remain, invisible]
[SLY is carried out. A trumpet sounds]
and ATTENDANTS
Enter CAPHIS
Enter IRIS
Enter TRINCULO
Enter a PEDANT
Enter a SERVANT
Exeunt PETRUCHIO, KATHERINA, and GRUMIO
GRUMIO, and train
Re-enter a SERVINGMAN
Enter ARIEL
Enter CERES
Enter HABERDASHER
Enter HORTENSIO
Enter KATHERINA
Enter a SERVANT
Enter two LORDS
Exeunt PETRUCHIO and KATHERINA severally
Spoken by PROSPERO
Enter ARIEL
Enter BIONDELLO
Enter BIONDELLO
Enter BIONDELLO.
Enter CALIBAN
Enter MARINERS
Enter a MESSENGER
Enter a SERVANT
Enter a SERVANT
Re-enter BIONDELLO
Re-enter PETRUCHIO
servants following
Enter APEMANTUS
Enter APEMANTUS and FOOL
Enter HOSTESS and SLY
Enter a third SERVANT
Enter an OLD ATHENIAN
Enter certain NYMPHS
Enter one with an OFFICER
Enter one with water
INDUCTION. SCENE I.
[ARIEL plays the tune on a tabor and pipe]
playing at chess
Enter ARIEL, invisible
Enter PETRUCHIO and KATHERINA
Enter another SERVANT
Enter four or five SERVINGMEN
FERDINAND following
GONZALO, and OTHERS
Re-enter BOATSWAIN
Re-enter SERVANTS severally
[ALONSO, SEBASTIAN etc., draw their swords]
amazedly following
Enter MARINERS, Wet
Exit, weeping, followed by BIANCA and others
PROSPERO observing, speaks
Re-enter SERVANT, with wine
Re-enter TIMON and FLAVIUS
and a crow of iron.
ARIEL'S SONG
PROSPERO and ARIEL setting them on
[All sleep but ALONSO, SEBASTIAN and ANTONIO]
APEMANTUS' Grace
Before an alehouse on a heath
Enter PETRUCHIO and GRUMIO
She stabs herself and falls [on Romeo's body].
noise, they heavily vanish
Enter BAPTISTA, and LUCENTIO as CAMBIO
Enter FLAVIUS, in a cloak, muffled
Re-enter KATHERINA with BIANCA and WIDOW
Re-enter SERVANTS with supper
The Presenters above speak
Enter ALCIBIADES, with the rest
Enter [Paris's] Boy and Watch.
Exit SERVANT leading HORTENSIO carrying the lute
Trumpet sounds. Enter a MESSENGER
[CALIBAN, STEPHANO, and TRINCULO are driven out]
and carrying out the table
device, the banquet vanishes
A bedchamber in the LORD'S house
Enter BIANCA, and LUCENTIO as CAMBIO
Enter Montague [and others].
Enter PETRUCHIO, and HORTENSIO with meat
Re-enter BAPTISTA, GREMIO, and TRANIO
Re-enter FLAVIUS, with the casket
And then take hands;
Cry, Cock-a-diddle-dow.
Enter certain SENATORS, and pass over
Enter the Prince [and Attendants].
Exeunt BAPTISTA, GREMIO, BIONDELLO, and ATTENDENTS
Hark, hark!
Hark, hark! I hear
The watch dogs bark.
The wild waves whist,
A horse and a man
And yet not many.
As he forth walked on his way-
I hold you a penny,
Is more than one,
Re-enter ARIEL like a water-nymph
Re-enter HORTENSIO, with his head broke
Where are those-
and ewer, and other appurtenances; and LORD
shape of dogs and hounds, bunting them about;
And, sweet sprites, the burden bear.
Come unto these yellow sands,
Curtsied when you have and kiss'd,
Enter Capulet and his Wife [with others].
Enter STEPHANO singing; a bottle in his hand
Enter TIMON and his train, with ALCIBIADES
Foot it featly here and there,
Here enters ARIEL before; then ALONSO, with
Padua, and PETRUCHIO'S house in the country
Re-enter LUCENTIO as CAMBIO, and BIONDELLO
The strain of strutting chanticleer
[Burden dispersedly: Bow-wow.]
[Burden dispersedly: Bow-wow.]
strain or two to the hautboys, and cease
Amen. So fall to't.
Enter FLAMINIUS, SERVILIUS, and another SERVANT
Enter PETRUCHIO, KATHERINA, VINCENTIO, GRUMIO,
Enter the PAGE as a lady, with ATTENDANTS
Grant I may never prove so fond
I pray for no man but myself.
Immortal gods, I crave no pelf;
KING, etc., to eat, they depart
Nothing of him that doth fade
Of his bones are coral made;
Or a dog that seems a-sleeping,
Or a harlot for her weeping,
Or a keeper with my freedom,
Or my friends, if I should need 'em.
Re-enter ARIEL, with the MASTER and BOATSWAIN
Re-enter SEBASTIAN, ANTONIO, and GONZALO
Rich men sin, and I eat root.       [Eats and drinks]
Solemn and strange music; and PROSPERO on the
To trust man on his oath or bond,
[Burden: Ding-dong.]
[JUNO and CERES whisper, and send IRIS on employment]
and ANTONIO in like manner, attended by ADRIAN
and FRANCISCO. They all enter the circle which
bringing in a banquet; and dance about it with
gentle actions of salutations; and inviting the
top, invisible. Enter several strange SHAPES,
A flourish of trumpets announces the play
A noise of hunters beard. Enter divers SPIRITS, in
Amazon, and all dance, men witb women, a lofty
And my ending is despair
And pardon'd the deceiver, dwell
And what strength I have's mine own,
As you from crimes would pardon'd be,
But release me from my bands
Enter ALONSO, SEBASTIAN, ANTONIO, FERDINAND
Enter ARIEL, invisible, playing solemn music
Enter Friar [Laurence] and another Watchman.
Gentle breath of yours my sails
Here PROSPERO discovers FERDINAND and MIRANDA,
I must be here confin'd by you,
In this bare island by your spell;
Let your indulgence set me free.
Mercy itself, and frees all faults.
Must fill, or else my project fails,
Now my charms are all o'erthrown,
Or sent to Naples. Let me not,
PROSPERO had made, and there stand charm'd; which
Re-enter ARIEL, invisible, with music and song
Re-enter BIONDELLO, with LUCENTIO and BIANCA
Since I have my dukedom got,
Spirits to enforce, art to enchant;
Unless I be reliev'd by prayer,
Which is most faint. Now 'tis true,
Which pierces so that it assaults
Which was to please. Now I want
With the help of your good hands.
after which, to a strange, hollow, and confused
courteously to every suitor, a MESSENGER from
frantic gesture, attended by GONZALO; SEBASTIAN
with lutes in their hands, dancing and playing
"A re" to plead Hortensio's passion-
"B mi" Bianca, take him for thy lord-
"C fa ut" that loves with all affection-
"D sol re" one clef, two notes have I-
"E la mi" show pity or I die.'
'"Gamut" I am, the ground of all accord-
But doth suffer a sea-change
Enter CALIBAN, STEPHANO, and TRINCULO, all wet
Exeunt BIONDELLO, TRANIO, and PEDANT, as fast as may be
Full fathom five thy father lies;
Hark! now I hear them-Ding-dong bell.
Into something rich and strange.
PETRUCHIO, with HORTENSIO as a musician; and TRANIO,
Re-enter ARIEL invisible, playing ad singing;
Re-enter ARIEL, driving in CALIBAN, STEPHANO, and
Sea-nymphs hourly ring his knell:
The LORDS rise from table, with much adoring of
Those are pearls that were his eyes;
Trumpets sound. Enter TIMON, addressing himself
VENTIDIUS talking with him; LUCILIUS and other
end whereof PROSPERO starts suddenly, and speaks,
with the NYMPHS in a graceful dance; towards the
ARIEL, on returning, sings and helps to attire him
Enter GREMIO with LUCENTIO disguised as CAMBIO
Enter GREMIO, with LUCENTIO in the habit of a mean man;
Enter MIRANDA; and PROSPERO at a distance, unseen
Enter certain REAPERS, properly habited; they join
He vanishes in thunder; then, to soft music, enter
TIMON; and to show their loves, each single out an
and BIANCA; GREMIO, a pantaloon; HORTENSIO,
suitor to BIANCA. LUCENTIO and TRANIO stand by
the SHAPES again, and dance, with mocks and mows,
Enter CAPHIS, and the SERVANTS Of ISIDORE and VARRO
Enter PETRUCHIO, KATHERINA, BIANCA, BAPTISTA, HORTENSIO,
Enter Romeo, and Balthasar with a torch, a mattock,
Re-enter ARIEL, loaden with glistering apparel, &c.
Re-enter PEDANT below; BAPTISTA, TRANIO, and SERVANTS
Thunder and lightning. Enter ARIEL, like a harpy;
Timon's servants
Wind horns. Enter a LORD from bunting, with his train
claps his wings upon the table; and, with a quaint
flattering lords
mistresses to Alcibiades
servants to Timon's creditors
Attendants
Enter BAPTISTA with his two daughters, KATHERINA
Music. Re-enter CUPID, witb a Masque of LADIES as Amazons,
awhile;
chick,
in the Masque
lords, were I so minded,
piece
sir,
straight
sum
thimble,
Enter [some of the Watch,] with Romeo's Man [Balthasar].
one of his men was with the Lord Lucullus to borrow so many
'Ay, by gogs-wouns' quoth he, and swore so loud
'Ban 'Ban, Ca-Caliban,
'Be serviceable to my son' quoth he,
'Bove the contentious waves he kept, and oared
'Commend me to your master' and the cap
'Con tutto il cuore ben trovato' may I say.
'Frets, call you these?' quoth she 'I'll fume with them.'
'Hic ibat Simois, hic est Sigeia tellus,
'Now take them up,' quoth he 'if any list.'
'Redime te captum quam queas minimo.'
'Tis as impossible that he's undrown'd
'Tis bargain'd 'twixt us twain, being alone,
'Tis deeds must win the prize, and he of both
'Tis deepest winter in Lord Timon's purse;
'Tis hatch'd, and shall be so. Tranio, at once
'Tis in my head to do my master good:
'Tis lack of kindly warmth they are not kind;
'Tis like you'll prove a jolly surly groom
'Tis marvel- but that you are but newly come,
'Tis not enough to help the feeble up,
'Tis pity bounty had not eyes behind,
'Tis ten to one it maim'd you two outright.
'Tis thought your deer does hold you at a bay.
'Tis true, my brother's daughter's Queen of Tunis;
'Twas told me you were rough, and coy, and sullen,
'Twas where you woo'd the gentlewoman so well.
'Twere deadly sickness or else present death.
'Twere good he were school'd.
'Twere good, methinks, to steal our marriage;
'Twere sure enough.
'Twere well for Kate and better for myself.
'Twill bring you gain, or perish on the seas.
'Twill weep for having wearied you. My father
'Twixt me and one Baptista's daughter here.
'Twould put me to my slipper; but I feel not
'em. Servant-monster, drink to me.
'hic est' son unto Vincentio of Pisa- 'Sigeia tellus' disguised
(Being loose, unfirm, with digging up of graves)
(O woe! thy canopy is dust and stones)
A FOOL
A PAGE
A child shall get a sire, if I fail not of my cunning.
A chough of as deep chat. O, that you bore
A confidence sans bound. He being thus lorded,
A contract of true love; be not too late.
A course of learning and ingenious studies.
A custard-coffin, a bauble, a silken pie;
A dateless bargain to engrossing death!
A dozen years; within which space she died,
A falsehood, in its contrary as great
A fine musician to instruct our mistress;
A freckl'd whelp, hag-born-not honour'd with
A gentleman that well deserves a help,
A goodly person. He hath lost his fellows,
A grave? O, no, a lanthorn, slaught'red youth,
A greater power than we can contradict
A grumbling groom, and that the girl shall find.
A hearty welcome.
A heaviness that's gone.
A human shape.
A knack, a toy, a trick, a baby's cap.
A lightning before death. O, how may I
A mad-cap ruffian and a swearing Jack,
A madman's mercy bid thee run away.
A man well known throughout all Italy.
A mark so bloody on the business; but
A matter from thee; and a birth, indeed,
A meacock wretch can make the curstest shrew.
A merchant of great traffic through the world,
A merchant of incomparable wealth.
A most auspicious star, whose influence
A most delicious banquet by his bed,
A noble Neapolitan, Gonzalo,
A plague upon the tyrant that I serve!
A precious ring- a ring that I must use
A prince of power.
A prince, Miranda; I do think, a king-
A rotten carcass of a butt, not rigg'd,
A shallow plash to plunge him in the deep,
A sleeping potion; which so took effect
A solemn air, and the best comforter
A son of mine, which long I have not seen.
A thing divine; for nothing natural
A thing most brutish, I endow'd thy purposes
A thousand moral paintings I can show
A thousand talents to me.
A time before we came unto this cell?
A title for a maid of all titles the worst.
A treacherous army levied, one midnight
A velvet dish. Fie, fie! 'tis lewd and filthy;
A visage of demand; for I do fear,
A vision of the island, one dear son
A woman mov'd is like a fountain troubled-
ALCIBIADES, an Athenian captain
AMAZONS
AN OLD ATHENIAN
APEMANTUS, a churlish philosopher
Abates the ardour of my liver.
About a schoolmaster for the fair Bianca;
Above the morning lark. Or wilt thou hunt?
Absolute Milan. Me, poor man-my library
Accept of him, or else you do me wrong-
According to the fashion and the time.
Aches contract and starve your supple joints!
Achieve the elder, set the younger free
Acknowledge mine.
Acknowledge thee their patron, and come freely
Adonis painted by a running brook,
Advanc'd their eyelids, lifted up their noses
Affection is not rated from the heart;
Affection's edge in me, were she as rough
After a storm; quaff'd off the muscadel,
After distasteful looks, and these hard fractions,
After his studies or his usual pain?
After our great good cheer. Pray you, sit down;
After summer merrily.
Against an oracle.
Against my honour?
Against my life; the minute of their plot
Against my very heart! Poor souls, they perish'd.
Against what should ensue.
Against your peace. Thee of thy son, Alonso,
Ah! when the means are gone that buy this praise,
Alack, alack, what blood is this which stains
All books of love, see that at any hand;
All exercise on thee; thou shalt be pinch'd
All for my master's sake, Lucentio.
All of companionship.
All points of my command.
All sanctimonious ceremonies may
All sorts of hearts; yea, from the glass-fac'd flatterer
All that pass by. It cannot hold; no reason
All this I know, and to the marriage
All those which were his fellows but of late-
All use of quittance.
All wound with adders, who with cloven tongues
All's hush'd as midnight yet.
Allaying both their fury and my passion
Allots thee for his lovely bed-fellow.
Although I think 'twas in another sense-
Although my last; no matter, since I feel
Although they want the use of tongue, a kind
Although this lord of weak remembrance, this
Am I this patient log-man.
Am bold to show myself a forward guest
Am starv'd for meat, giddy for lack of sleep;
Ambition cannot pierce a wink beyond,
Among a sisterhood of holy nuns.
An advocate for an impostor! hush!
An affable and courteous gentleman;
An ancient angel coming down the hill
An awful rule, and right supremacy;
An eye-sore to our solemn festival!
An if this be at all-a most strange story.
An old Italian fox is not so kind, my boy.              Exit
An onion will do well for such a shift,
An undergoing stomach, to bear up
And 'tis my hope to end successfully.
And 'twill be supper-time ere you come there.
And 'twixt the green sea and the azur'd vault
And Cytherea all in sedges hid,
And Ferdinand, her brother, found a wife
And Gabriel's pumps were all unpink'd i' th' heel;
And I am tied to be obedient-
And I do hope good days and long to see.
And I expressly am forbid to touch it;
And I for my escape have put on his;
And I have bred her at my dearest cost
And I have thrust myself into this maze,
And I the King shall love thee.
And I thus humble ever.
And I with my long nails will dig thee pig-nuts;
And I would call it fair play.
And I'll be sworn 'tis true; travellers ne'er did lie,
And I'll not wish thee to her.
And I, for winking at you, discords too,
And I, seeing this, came thence for very shame;
And Juliet bleeding, warm, and newly dead,
And Paris too. Come, I'll dispose of thee
And Peter Turph, and Henry Pimpernell;
And Prospero the prime duke, being so reputed
And Roman Lucrece for her chastity.
And Romeo dead; and Juliet, dead before,
And Walter's dagger was not come from sheathing;
And a clear life ensuing.
And able horses. No porter at his gate,
And after bite me; then like hedgehogs which
And after me, I know, the rout is coming.
And all be turn'd to barnacles, or to apes
And all my pains is sorted to no proof.
And all out of an empty coffer;
And all the devils are here.'
And all the more it seeks to hide itself,
And all the rest o' th' fleet?
And all things answerable to this portion.
And all this courtesy! The strain of man's bred out
And am to Padua come as he that leaves
And apprehend thee for a felon here.
And are upon the Mediterranean flote
And as he stoop'd again to take it up,
And as the morning steals upon the night,
And as the sun breaks through the darkest clouds,
And as with age his body uglier grows,
And ask him what apparel he will wear;
And at that instant like a babe sprung up.
And at that sight shall sad Apollo weep,
And banish hence these abject lowly dreams.
And be a boy right out.                       [JUNO alights]
And be in Padua here Vincentio's son;
And be it moon, or sun, or what you please;
And bear his charge of wooing, whatsoe'er.
And bear this work of heaven with patience;
And being a winner, God give you good night!
And being enfranchis'd, bid him come to me.
And better 'twere that both of us did fast,
And bid Bianca make her ready straight;
And bid me stand aloof, and so I did.
And bid my cousin Ferdinand come hither:
And blister you all o'er!
And bonny Kate, and sometimes Kate the curst;
And bound I am to Padua, there to visit
And bow'd her hand to teach her fingering,
And brave attendants near him when he wakes,
And breathe twice, and cry 'so, so,'
And bring along these rascal knaves with thee?
And bring our horses unto Long-lane end;
And bring thee forth brave brood.
And bring you from a wild Kate to a Kate
And brought us thus together?
And burn in many places; on the topmast,
And burn sweet wood to make the lodging sweet;
And by all likelihood some cheer is toward.         [Knocks]
And by good fortune I have lighted well
And by my father's love and leave am arm'd
And by that destiny, to perform an act
And by-and-by my master drew on him;
And call him 'madam,' do him obeisance.
And call him to long peace.
And come to Padua, careless of your life!
And could not get him for my heart to do it.
And couple Clowder with the deep-mouth'd brach.
And craves no other tribute at thy hands
And crown what I profess with kind event,
And dart not scornful glances from those eyes
And deal in her command without her power.
And death's pale flag is not advanced there.
And deeper than did ever plummet sound
And dispossess her all.
And do as adversaries do in law-
And do my spriting gently.
And do not interrupt me in my course.
And do the murder first. If he awake,
And do you tell me of a woman's tongue,
And does he send to me? Three? Humh!
And does he think so backwardly of me now
And e'en as if your lord should wear rich jewels
And each one to his office when he wakes.
And entertain'd me with mine own device;
And even with such-like valour men hang and drown
And every day I cannot come to woo.
And executing th' outward face of royalty
And fearfully did menace me with death
And fetch shall echoes from the hollow earth.
And flat meads thatch'd with stover, them to keep;
And for I know she taketh most delight
And for the love he beareth to your daughter,
And for this night we'll fast for company.
And for thy maintenance commits his body
And for your love to her lead apes in hell.
And frame your mind to mirth and merriment,
And free access and favour as the rest.
And gape at wid'st to glut him.
And gentlewomen wear such caps as these.
And give assurance to Baptista Minola
And give it Timon, why, the dog coins gold.
And give it way. I know thou canst not choose.
And give them friendly welcome every one;
And graceless traitor to her loving lord?
And hang it round with all my wanton pictures;
And happily I have arrived at the last
And happily we might be interrupted.
And have forsworn you with Hortensio.
And have no vigour in them.
And have prepar'd great store of wedding cheer
And have the dates in compt.
And he knew my deceased father well.
And he shall be Vincentio of Pisa,
And he that's once denied will hardly speed.            Exit
And he whose wife is most obedient,
And he's compos'd of harshness. I must remove
And heaven's artillery thunder in the skies?
And help to dress your sister's chamber up.
And her withholds from me, and other more,
And here I stand, both to impeach and purge
And here I'll fling the pillow, there the bolster,
And here he writes that he did buy a poison
And here is come to do some villanous shame
And here she stands; touch her whoever dare;
And here was left by th'sailors. Thou, my slave,
And him he play'd it for, he needs will be
And hinder them from what this ecstasy
And his and mine lov'd darling.                   Exit above
And his brave son being twain.
And his great person perish.
And his more braver daughter could control thee,
And hither come in 't. Go, hence with diligence!
And honour'd in their issue.                     [They sing]
And honourable carriage,
And how my men will stay themselves from laughter
And how she was beguiled and surpris'd,
And how she's like to be Lucentio's wife.      Exit LUCENTIO
And if I die to-morrow this is hers,
And if he chance to speak, be ready straight,
And if no gentleman, why then no arms.
And if she chance to nod I'll rail and brawl
And if the boy have not a woman's gift
And if you break the ice, and do this feat,
And if you cannot, best you stop your ears.
And if you please to call it a rush-candle,
And in despite I'll cram thee with more food.
And in her most unmitigable rage,
And in my house you shall be friendly lodg'd;
And in no sense is meet or amiable.
And in these fits I leave them, while I visit
And it I will have, or I will have none.    Exit HABERDASHER
And it missheathed in my daughter's bosom!
And justify you traitors; at this time
And keep her at my cell till Romeo come-
And kept his credit with his purse;
And kiss me, Kate; we will be married a Sunday.
And kiss'd her lips with such a clamorous smack
And know their spring, their head, their true descent;
And lead you even to death. Meantime forbear,
And left me to a bootless inquisition,
And left thee there, where thou didst vent thy groans
And let Bianca take her sister's room.
And let Sebastian wake.' Say this were death
And let it be more than Alcides' twelve.
And let it not displease thee, good Bianca,
And let me be a slave t' achieve that maid
And let me have them very well perfum'd;
And let mischance be slave to patience.
And let your father make her the assurance,
And look how well my garments sit upon me,
And make a vassal of him.
And make assurance here in Padua
And make her bear the penance of her tongue?
And make him weigh with her.
And make it halt behind her.
And make thy weapon drop.
And makes a god of such a cullion.
And makes my labours pleasures. O, she is
And marry sweet Bianca with consent.
And melancholy is the nurse of frenzy.
And melt, ere they molest! Here lies your brother,
And moe diversity of sounds, all horrible,
And my dear father. How features are abroad,
And my estate deserves an heir more rais'd
And my reliances on his fracted dates
And nature, as it grows again toward earth,
And ne'er be weary. Alcibiades,
And never from this palace of dim night
And not a maiden, as thou sayst he is.
And not a tinker, nor Christopher Sly.
And not obedient to his honest will,
And not till then.
And not unluckily against the bias.
And now I find report a very liar;
And now Ventidius is wealthy too,
And now by law, as well as reverend age,
And now in plainness do confess to thee,
And now ingratitude makes it worse than stealth.
And now you know my meaning.
And observation strange, my meaner ministers
And offer me disguis'd in sober robes
And on this couple drop a blessed crown;
And once again, a pot o' th' smallest ale.
And other books- good ones, I warrant ye.
And paint your face, and use you like a fool.
And pass my daughter a sufficient dower,
And peg thee in his knotty entrails, till
And place your hands below your husband's foot;
And pluck my magic garment from me. So,
And practise rhetoric in your common talk;
And presently, I prithee.
And princess no worse issued.
And promise you calm seas, auspicious gales,
And prompt me, plain and holy innocence!
And put it to the foil; but you, O you,
And quaff carouses to our mistress' health;
And rail upon the hostess of the house,
And rails, and swears, and rates, that she, poor soul,
And rap me well, or I'll knock your knave's pate.
And rapt in secret studies. Thy false uncle-
And rather like a dream than an assurance
And rather than it shall, I will be free
And rest myself content.
And revel it as bravely as the best,
And ride upon their backs; he trod the water,
And sail so expeditious that shall catch
And say 'Lo, there is mad Petruchio's wife,
And say 'What is't your honour will command,
And say 'Will't please your lordship cool your hands?'
And say she uttereth piercing eloquence.
And say what thou seest yond.
And say you found them in mine honesty.
And say you would present her at the leet,
And scout 'em and flout 'em;
And seal the title with a lovely kiss!
And see him dress'd in all suits like a lady;
And see you read no other lectures to her.
And seek for grace. What a thrice-double ass
And seem'd to ask him sops as he was drinking.
And send for money for 'em.
And sent you hither so unlike yourself?
And serve it thus to me that love it not?
And set me on the proof. So the gods bless me,
And set mine eyes at flow.
And shake the yoke of inauspicious stars
And she can have no more than all I have;
And she to him- to stay him not too long,
And she, there dead, that Romeo's faithful wife.
And she, too desperate, would not go with me,
And show more sign of her obedience,
And show'd thee all the qualities o' th' isle,
And shrewd and froward so beyond all measure
And sight-outrunning were not; the fire and cracks
And since mine eyes are witness of her lightness,
And since you do profess to be a suitor,
And sits as one new risen from a dream.
And slept above some fifteen year or more.
And so I pray you all to think yourselves.
And so I take my leave, and thank you both.
And so am come abroad to see the world.
And so farewell, Signior Lucentio.
And so it shall be so for Katherine.
And so offend him; for I tell you, sirs,
And so shall mine, before you touch the meat.
And so she shall: Lucentio shall make one,
And so to Tripoli, if God lend me life.
And so, farewell. Katherina, you may stay;
And so, intending other serious matters,
And some donation freely to estate
And speak I will. I am no child, no babe.
And spend our flatteries to drink those men
And steep'd in blood? Ah, what an unkind hour
And strays about to find 'em.
And strew this hungry churchyard with thy limbs.
And subjects none abroad; pray you, look in.
And suck'd my verdure out on't. Thou attend'st not.
And take a lodging fit to entertain
And take his bottle from him. When that's gone
And taste Lord Timon's bounty? He outgoes
And tell me now, sweet friend, what happy gale
And that a strange one too, which did awake me;
And that he does I weep. Myself am Naples,
And that his lady mourns at his disease;
And that most deeply to consider is
And that my master slew him.
And that the lean abhorred monster keeps
And that unaptness made your minister
And that which spites me more than all these wants-
And that you look'd for him this day in Padua.
And that you will some good instruction give
And that's a wonder- fathers commonly
And the best half should have return'd to him,
And the detention of long-since-due debts,
And the moon changes even as your mind.
And the particular accidents gone by
And the remainder mourning over them,
And then I know after who comes by the worst.
And then I ran away to call the watch.
And then I'll bring thee to the present busines
And then in post he came from Mantua
And then let Kate be chaste, and Dian sportful!
And then pursue me as you draw your bow.
And then to dinner. You are passing welcome,
And then will I be general of your woes
And then with kind embracements, tempting kisses,
And thence retire me to my Milan, where
And there I am. Where is my Romeo?
And there I stood amazed for a while,
And there is in this business more than nature
And there it is in writing fairly drawn.
And there repose; a turn or two I'll walk
And therefore frame your manners to the time.
And therefore frolic; we will hence forthwith
And therefore has he closely mew'd her up,
And therefore here I mean to take my leave.
And therefore let me be thus bold with you
And therefore, Tranio, for the time I study,
And therefore, if you say no more than this,
And therefore, setting all this chat aside,
And these fresh nymphs encounter every one
And these mine enemies are all knit up
And they expect it from me.
And they shall be themselves.
And they to him are angels.
And think it not the worst of all your fortunes
And think of each thing well.  [Aside to ARIEL]  Come
And this is all a liberal course allows:
And this small packet of Greek and Latin books.
And thou, Hortensio, with thy loving widow,
And threat'ned me with death, going in the vault,
And threw the sops all in the sexton's face,
And through the instrument my pate made way;
And thus I'll curb her mad and headstrong humour.
And thy no greater father.
And thy sea-marge, sterile and rocky hard,
And till she stoop she must not be full-gorg'd,
And time it is when raging war is done
And time to speak it in; you rub the sore,
And to cut off all strife: here sit we down;
And to my state grew stranger, being transported
And to thee and thy company I bid
And toward the education of your daughters
And try the argument of hearts by borrowing,
And twangling Jack, with twenty such vile terms,
And twelve tight galleys. These I will assure her,
And twenty caged nightingales do sing.
And twenty more such names and men as these,
And twice as much whate'er thou off'rest next.
And twice to-day pick'd out the dullest scent;
And undertake the teaching of the maid-
And unsuspected court her by herself.
And use of service, none; contract, succession,
And venture madly on a desperate mart.
And very rich; but th'art too much my friend,
And wander we to see thy honest son,
And watch our vantage in this business;
And watch your safety.
And we alive that liv'd? Fly, damned baseness,
And well we may come there by dinner-time.
And were brought moping hither.
And what does else want credit, come to me,
And what is in't, the never-surfeited sea
And what remains will hardly stop the mouth
And when I rear my hand, do you the like,
And when he's sick to death, let not that part of nature
And when in music we have spent an hour,
And when she is froward, peevish, sullen, sour,
And where two raging fires meet together,
And wherefore gaze this goodly company
And while I pause serve in your harmony.
And while it is so, none so dry or thirsty
And will not be uplifted. But remember-
And will not promise her to any man
And will you, nill you, I will marry you.
And wish thee to a shrewd ill-favour'd wife?
And with a low submissive reverence
And with declining head into his bosom,
And with each end of thy blue bow dost crown
And with her breath she did perfume the air;
And with him there lie mudded.                          Exit
And with satiety seeks to quench his thirst.
And with that word she struck me on the head,
And with the clamour keep her still awake.
And with their faint reply this answer join:
And with wild looks bid me devise some mean
And women too, but innocent and pure;
And woo her with some spirit when she comes.
And worship this dull fool!
And ye that on the sands with printless foot
And yet I needs must curse. But they'll nor pinch,
And yet I'll promise thee she shall be rich,
And yet as heavy as my weight should be.
And yet methinks I see it in thy face,
And yet she is inferior to none.
And yet so fast asleep.
And yet we hear not of our son-in-law.
And yet- O, see the monstrousness of man
And you shall find I like it; wait attendance
And your affection not gone forth, I'll make you
And your great flow of debts. My lov'd lord,
And yours it is against.
And, as the jest did glance away from me,
And, for an entrance to my entertainment,
And, for thou wast a spirit too delicate
And, honest company, I thank you all
And, if you will, tell what hath happened-
And, in conclusion, she shall watch all night;
And, in possession, twenty thousand crowns.
And, like the baseless fabric of this vision,
And, like this insubstantial pageant faded,
And, to be noted for a merry man,
And, to be short, what not that's sweet and happy.
And, to conclude, we have 'greed so well together
And, were his daughter fairer than she is,
And, when he says he is, say that he dreams,
And- for the good report I hear of you,
And-how, we know not-all clapp'd under hatches;
Anon I'll give thee more instructions.     Exit a SERVINGMAN
Anon comes one with light to ope the tomb;
Another bear the ewer, the third a diaper,
Another dowry to another daughter,
Another tell him of his hounds and horse,
Another way I have to man my haggard,
Another way so high a hope, that even
Answer not: I am gone.                             Exit PAGE
Answer your summons; Juno does command.
Antonio, my father, is deceas'd,
Any companion in the world but you;
Approach, my Ariel. Come.
Approach, rich Ceres, her to entertain.
Are come to play a pleasant comedy;
Are like invulnerable. If you could hurt,
Are melted into air, into thin air;
Are ministers of Fate; the elements
Are natural breath; but, howsoe'er you have
Are nobly undergone, and most poor matters
Are prized by their masters. Believe't, dear lord,
Are then most humble; I have no ambition
Are worse than devils.
Are you a suitor to the maid you talk of, yea or no?
Ariel and all his quality.
Arise, and say how thou cam'st here.
Arms, take your last embrace! and, lips, O you
Art ignorant of what thou art, nought knowing
As 'longeth to a lover's blessed case!
As Anna to the Queen of Carthage was-
As Hymen's lamps shall light you.
As I before imparted to your worship,
As I can bid thee speak.
As I can change these poor accoutrements,
As I foretold you, were all spirits, and
As I had leave of means.
As I have lov'd this proud disdainful haggard.
As I intended, for it wrought on her
As I was sometime Milan. Quickly, spirit
As I wish you were.
As Kate this chamber with her princely gait?
As Ovid be an outcast quite abjur'd.
As Socrates' Xanthippe or a worse-
As Stephen Sly, and old John Naps of Greece,
As amply and unnecessarily
As are the swelling Adriatic seas.
As beaten hence by your strange lunacy.
As bondage e'er of freedom. Here's my hand.
As breathed stags; ay, fleeter than the roe.
As dreams are made on; and our little life
As fast as mill-wheels strike. Then was this island-
As firmly as yourself were still in place;
As for my patron, stand you so assur'd,
As great'st does least.
As hazel-nuts, and sweeter than the kernels.
As he shall think by our true diligence
As he that sleeps here swims.
As he was coming from this churchyard side.
As if he were the right Vincentio.
As if the vicar meant to cozen him.
As if they saw some wondrous monument,
As if you were dismay'd; be cheerful, sir.
As in his shape. Go, sirrah, to my cell;
As is the other for beauteous modesty.
As late I have been, I not know. Thy pulse
As lively painted as the deed was done.
As morning roses newly wash'd with dew.
As mountain winds; but then exactly do
As much as me my dukedom.
As much foolery as I have, so much wit thou lack'st.
As my soul prompts it. Spirit, fine spirit! I'll free thee
As my trust was; which had indeed no limit,
As old as Sibyl, and as curst and shrewd
As on a pillory, looking through the lute,
As one unworthy all the former favours
As prisoners to her womanly persuasion.
As rootedly as I. Burn but his books.
As shall with either part's agreement stand?
As she had studied to misuse me so.
As signal that thou hear'st something approach.
As stooping to relieve him. I not doubt
As that of true and faithful Juliet.
As they smelt music; so I charm'd their cars,
As thick as honeycomb, each pinch more stinging
As this Gonzalo; I myself could make
As this pomp shows to a little oil and root.
As those two eyes become that heavenly face?
As those which sell would give; but you well know
As thou report'st thyself, wast then her servant;
As thou shalt think on prating whilst thou liv'st!
As though she bid me stay by her a week;
As thunder when the clouds in autumn crack.
As to advance this jewel; accept it and wear it,
As we have, such. This gallant which thou seest
As wealth is burden of my wooing dance,
As well as he that sleeps; lords that can prate
As well as it does you; and I should do it
As well of glib and slipp'ry creatures as
As when they are fresh.
As who should say, if I should sleep or eat,
As will a chestnut in a fariner's fire?
As with the meat, some undeserved fault
As you shall well be satisfied withal.
Ask nothing, give it him, it foals me straight,
Assist me, Tranio, for I know thou wilt.
At least bring forth a wonder, to content ye
At many leisures I propos'd.
At many times I brought in my accounts,
At nothing can be more. I'll to my book;
At requiring,
At the hedge corner, in the coldest fault?
At the prefixed hour of her waking
At this encounter do so much admire
At this hour reigning-there.
At which like unback'd colts they prick'd their ears,
Attempts her love; I prithee, noble lord,
Awak'd an evil nature; and my trust,
Awake, awake!
Awake, dear heart, awake; thou hast slept well;
Awake.
Away with it. Come, let me have a bigger.
Away, I say, and bring them hither straight.
Away, I say; commend me to thy master.           Exit TAILOR
Away, away! for he is coming hither.                  Exeunt
Away, thou rag, thou quantity, thou remnant;
Ay, and amid this hurly I intend
Bacare! you are marvellous forward.
Balk logic with acquaintance that you have,
Balm his foul head in warm distilled waters,
Banish'd the new-made bridegroom from this city;
Baptista is a noble gentleman,
Baptista's eldest daughter to a husband we set his youngest free
Barns and gamers never empty;
Basins and ewers to lave her dainty hands;
Batter his skull, or paunch him with a stake,
Be bride to you, if you make this assurance;
Be free, and fare thou well!-Please you, draw near.
Be living and be here?
Be mad and merry, or go hang yourselves.
Be measur'd or confin'd.
Be merry, Kate. Some water, here, what, ho!
Be not afraid. I met her Deity
Be not disturb'd with my infirmity.
Be patient, for the prize I'll bring thee to
Be patient; to-morrow 't shall be mended.
Be rough and razorable; she that from whom
Be sacrific'd, some hour before his time,
Be she as foul as was Florentius' love,
Be so perfidious. He, whom next thyself
Be the jacks fair within, the jills fair without, the carpets
Be worthily entertain'd.                        Exit SERVANT
Bear with my weakness; my old brain is troubled;
Beats, as of flesh and blood; and, since I saw thee,
Because I know you well and love you well,
Because his feathers are more beautiful?
Because his painted skin contents the eye?
Because she brought stone jugs and no seal'd quarts.
Because she will not be annoy'd with suitors.
Because so well I love Lucentio.
Been justled from your senses, know for certain
Befitting this first meeting. Welcome, sir;
Before I have a husband for the elder.
Before I were forc'd out!
Began to scold and raise up such a storm
Beggars that come unto my father's door
Begin to chase the ignorant fumes that mantle
Begins to swell, and the approaching tide
Begun to tell me what I am; but stopp'd,
Behold this maid. All corners else o' th' earth
Being all this time abandon'd from your bed.
Being awake, enforce them to this place;
Being capable of all ill! I pitied thee,
Being free itself, it thinks all others so.           Exeunt
Being lass-lorn; thy pole-clipt vineyard;
Being most unfit to live. I have made you mad;
Being of no power to make his wishes good.
Being the time the potion's force should cease.
Believe things certain. Welcome, my friends all!
Belike some noble gentleman that means,
Belike you mean to make a puppet of me.
Bend thoughts and wits to achieve her. Thus it stands:
Beside, so qualified as may beseem
Besides two thousand ducats by the year
Besides yourself, to like of. But I prattle
Besides, old Gremio is heark'ning still,
Bestow upon the eyes of this young couple
Betid to any creature in the vessel
Betroth'd and would have married her perforce
Better once than never, for never too late.           Exeunt
Better than he, why, give my horse to Timon,
Beyond a common joy, and set it down
Beyond all limit of what else i' th' world,
Bianca's grief.
Bianca, stand aside- poor girl! she weeps.
Bid him shed tears, as being overjoyed
Bid him suppose some good necessity
Bids thee leave these; and with her sovereign grace,
Blows you to Padua here from old Verona?
Bore us some leagues to sea, where they prepared
Both our inventions meet and jump in one.
Bound sadly home for Naples,
Bourn, bound of land, tilth, vineyard, none;
Bowing his head against the steepy mount
Brach Merriman, the poor cur, is emboss'd;
Brav'd in mine own house with a skein of thread!
Brim full of sorrow and dismay; but chiefly
Bring forth the parties of suspicion.
Bring her to try wi' th' maincourse.  [A cry within]  A
Brother Petruchio, sister Katherina,
Brought my too diligent ear; for several virtues
Brought to this shore; and by my prescience
Brought up as best becomes a gentlewoman;
Buried his father, by whose death he's stepp'd
Burnt up those logs that you are enjoin'd to pile.
Bury it certain fathoms in the earth,
But I am doubtful of your modesties,
But I will charm him first to keep his tongue.
But I will write again to Mantua,
But I, who never knew how to entreat,
But Timon's silver treads upon his lip;
But after many ceremonies done
But art thou not advis'd he took some care
But art thou not drown'd, Stephano? I hope now thou are
But be thou arm'd for some unhappy words.
But bid Bianca farewell for ever and a day.
But blessedly holp hither.
But breeds the giver a return exceeding
But by immortal Providence she's mine.
But certainly a maid.
But chiefly to take thence from her dead finger
But did I never speak of all that time?
But doubt discovery there. Will you grant with me
But ever see that man!
But felt a fever of the mad, and play'd
But find supply immediate. Get you gone;
But flies an eagle flight, bold and forth on,
But for my bonny Kate, she must with me.
But for my daughter Katherine, this I know,
But fresher than before; and, as thou bad'st me,
But he which bore my letter, Friar John,
But here she comes; :Lnd.now, Petruchio, speak.
But his occasions might have woo'd me first;
But if it were, doubt not her care should be
But if thou, jealous, dost return to pry
But if you have a stomach, to't a God's name;
But in all places else your master Lucentio.
But learn my lessons as I please myself.
But let it rest. Now, Licio, to you.
But love, fair looks, and true obedience-
But must not break my back to heal his finger.
But never saw before; of whom I have
But none of us car'd for Kate;
But not another sin upon my head
But now I see our lances are but straws,
But now, Baptista, to your younger daughter:
But one that scorn to live in this disguise
But only Sycorax my dam and she;
But rather lose her to an African;
But rather one that smiles and still invites
But see! while idly I stood looking on,
But she as far surpasseth Sycorax
But slow in speech, yet sweet as springtime flowers.
But so it is- my haste doth call me hence,
But stay awhile; what company is this?
But sun it is not, when you say it is not;
But sup them well, and look unto them all;
But that his beard grew thin and hungerly
But that our soft conditions and our hearts
But that the sea, mounting to th' welkin's cheek,
But the true ground of all these piteous woes
But then a noise did scare me from the tomb,
But then up farther, and as far as Rome;
But these sweet thoughts do even refresh my labours,
But they do shake their heads, and I am here
But this thing dare not-
But thou shalt hear it. Whistle then to me,
But thou with mildness entertain'st thy wooers;
But to support him after. Fare you well.
But twenty times so much upon my wife.
But was not this nigh shore?
But what a fool am I to chat with you,
But what my power might else exact, like one
But what particular rarity? What strange,
But when I came, some minute ere the time
But where is Kate? I stay too long from her;
But where is Kate? Where is my lovely bride?
But where there is true friendship there needs none.
But who comes here?
But will you woo this wild-cat?
But yet not stay, entreat me how you can.
But yet they could have wish'd- they know not-
But yet thou shalt have freedom. So, so, so.
But, Kate, the prettiest Kate in Christendom,
But, O, how oddly will it sound that I
But, as it seems, did violence on herself.
But, sirrah, not for my sake but your master's, I advise
But, soft! Company is coming here.
By accident most strange, bountiful Fortune,
By all of us; and the fair soul herself
By foul play, as thou say'st, were we heav'd thence;
By heaven, I love thee better than myself,
By heaven, I will tear thee joint by joint
By help of her more potent ministers,
By inch-meal a disease! His spirits hear me,
By moonshine do the green sour ringlets make,
By my so potent art. But this rough magic
By night frequents my house. I am a man
By their own fear or sloth.
By urging me to fury. O, be gone!
By virtue specially to be achiev'd.
By your firm promise; Gremio is out-vied.
CAPHIS
CUPID
Call home thy ancient thoughts from banishment,
Call me before th' exactest auditors
Call this a lightning? O my love! my wife!
Call you this gamut? Tut, I like it not!
Call'd Katherina, fair and virtuous?
Calls her a nonpareil. I never saw a woman
Came I to take her from her kindred's vault;
Came to this vault to die, and lie with Juliet.
Can I demand.
Can be at once, shall step by step attend
Can have no note, unless the sun were post,
Can justly praise but what he does affect.
Can lay to bed for ever; whiles you, doing thus,
Can sound his state in safety. Caphis, ho!
Can speak like us. Then wisely, good sir, weigh
Can truly say he gives, if he receives.
Can vengeance be pursu'd further than death?
Cap'ring to eye her. On a trice, so please you,
Caphis, I say!
Carouse full measure to her maidenhead;
Carry him gently to my fairest chamber,
Carry this mad knave to the gaol. Father Baptista, I charge you
Ceres' blessing so is on you.
Chiefly that I might set it in my prayers,
Christendom. What! I am not bestraught.  [Taking a pot of ale]
Christmas gambold or a tumbling-trick?
Come away, servant; come; I am ready now.
Come hither from the furrow, and be merry;
Come, I will bring thee to thy bridal chamber.        Exeunt
Come, Kate, and wash, and welcome heartily.
Come, Kate, sit down; I know you have a stomach.
Come, Mistress Kate, I'll bear you company.
Come, bitter conduct; come, unsavoury guide!
Come, come, you froward and unable worins!
Come, go, good Juliet. I dare no longer stay.
Come, hang them on this line.
Come, sir; we will better it in Pisa.
Come, tailor, let us see these ornaments;
Come, temperate nymphs, and help to celebrate
Come, thou tortoise! when?
Comes to th' entertainer-
Commend me to their loves; and I am proud, say, that my occasions
Concluding 'Stay; not yet.'
Condemned villain, I do apprehend thee.
Conformable as other household Kates.
Confounds thy fame as whirlwinds shake fair buds,
Costly apparel, tents, and canopies,
Could I repair what she will wear in me
Could not abide to be with; therefore wast thou
Could not again undo. It was mine art,
Counsel me, Tranio, for I know thou canst;
Crowns in my purse I have, and goods at home,
Cunning in music and the mathematics,
Curs'd be I that did so! All the charms
Cutting the clouds towards Paphos, and her son
Dash'd all to pieces! O, the cry did knock
Dashes the fire out. O, I have suffered
Daughters to Baptista
Death, lie thou there, by a dead man interr'd.
Death, that hath suck'd the honey of thy breath,
Delight in them sets off; some kinds of baseness
Depart again. Here, here will I remain
Deserv'd more than a prison.
Deserv'd this hearing. Bid 'em send o' th' instant
Deservedly confin'd into this rock, who hadst
Dewlapp'd like bulls, whose throats had hanging at 'em
Did Claribel her husband find at Tunis;
Did I not bid thee meet me in the park
Did make wolves howl, and penetrate the breasts
Did never meddle with my thoughts.
Did not attend him as we rode? I think
Did quarrel with the noblest grace she ow'd,
Did us but loving wrong.
Did worthily perform; and I must use you
Did you yet ever see Baptista's daughter?
Didst thou, Alonso, use me and my daughter;
Diffusest honey drops, refreshing show'rs;
Dine with my father, drink a health to me.
Do I take part; the rarer action is
Do chase the ebbing Neptune, and do fly him
Do get their children; but in this case of wooing
Do hiss me into madness.
Do love, prize, honour you.
Do make myself a suitor to your daughter,
Do me this right- hear me with patience.
Do not infest your mind with beating on
Do not omit the heavy offer of it:
Do not smile at me that I boast her off,
Do not, for one repulse, forgo the purpose
Do now attend the Queen? Since they did plot
Do that good mischief which may make this island
Do what they would, are sorry- you are honourable-
Do what thou canst, I will not go to-day;
Do what you can, yours will not be entreated.
Do you love me, master? No?
Does not become a man; 'tis much to blame.
Does now speak to thee, I embrace thy body;
Doors that were ne'er acquainted with their wards
Dost disobey the wife of Jupiter;
Dost thou attend me?
Dost thou hear?
Dost thou love hawking? Thou hast hawks will soar
Doth fancy any other but Lucentio?
Doth it not then our eyelids sink? I find not
Doth love my daughter, and she loveth him,
Doth make against me, of this direful murther;
Doth watch Bianca's steps so narrowly,
Doubled with thanks and service, from whose help
Dove-drawn with her. Here thought they to have done
Draw forth thy weapon; we are beset with thieves;
Drink the free air.
Drop on you both! A south-west blow on ye
Dropping upon thy head.
Each bound it chafes. What have you there?
Each in his office ready at thy beck.
Each one, tripping on his toe,
Each putter-out of five for one will bring us
Else I should tell him- well i' faith, I should-
Else surely his had equall'd.
Enter Friar [Laurence], with lanthorn, crow, and spade.
Enter TRANIO, bravely apparelled as LUCENTIO, and BIONDELLO
Enter aloft SLY, with ATTENDANTS; some with apparel, basin
Ere three days pass, which hath as long lov'd me
Ere we depart we'll share a bounteous time
Ergo, thou liest.
Even as the waving sedges play wi' th' wind.
Even here I will put off my hope, and keep it
Even in a dream, were we divided from them,
Even in these honest mean habiliments;
Even now, we heard a hollow burst of bellowing
Even on their knees and hands, let him slip down,
Even such a woman oweth to her husband;
Even such as they give out. I like your work,
Even to roaring.
Even to the uttermost, as I please, in words.
Evermore cross'd and cross'd; nothing but cross'd!
Every third thought shall be my grave.
Exactly is perform'd; but there's more work.
Execute all things; for no kind of traffic
Expell'd remorse and nature, who, with Sebastian-
Expos'd unto the sea, which hath requit it,
FLAMINIUS
FLAVIUS, steward to Timon
Fair Leda's daughter had a thousand wooers;
Fair lovely maid, once more good day to thee.
Faith, sirrah, an you'll not knock I'll ring it;
Fall fellowly drops. The charm dissolves apace,
Fall to them as you find your stomach serves you.
Farewell, brother! We split, we split, we split!]
Fated to th' purpose, did Antonio open
Father, be quiet; he shall stay my leisure.
Fear not, sweet wench; they shall not touch thee, Kate;
Feast with the best, and welcome to my house.
Feast-won, fast-lost; one cloud of winter show'rs,
Feasts are too proud to give thanks to the gods.
Feign'd Fortune to be thron'd. The base o' th' mount
Fellow Trinculo, we'll fill him by and by again.
Fetch in our wood, and serves in offices
Fetch me the hat and rapier in my cell;           Exit ARIEL
Fetch us in fuel. And be quick, thou 'rt best,
Few words suffice; and therefore, if thou know
Fie on her! See how beastly she doth court him!
Fie, doff this habit, shame to your estate,
Fie, fie, fie, fie!
Fill all thy bones with aches, make thee roar,
Filth as thou art, with human care, and lodg'd thee
Find little.
Find this grand liquor that hath gilded 'em?
Fine apparition! My quaint Ariel,
Fine linen, Turkey cushions boss'd with pearl,
First to possess his books; for without them
First were we sad, fearing you would not come;
First, tell me, have you ever been at Pisa?
Fit for her turn, well read in poetry
Fit to instruct her youth. If you, Hortensio,
Flaminius, honest Flaminius, you are very respectively welcome,
Flout 'em and scout 'em,
Fly hence and leave me. Think upon these gone;
Follow his strides, his lobbies fill with tendance,
Follow, and do me service.                            Exeunt
Fool, I will go with you to Lord Timon's.
For 'tis a bond in men. Give him thy daughter:
For 'tis a chronicle of day by day,
For 'tis the mind that makes the body rich;
For I am all the subjects that you have,
For I am he am born to tame you, Kate,
For I am rough, and woo not like a babe.
For I can here disarm thee with this stick
For I come hither arm'd against myself.
For I have bills for money by exchange
For I have more to commune with Bianca.                 Exit
For I must hence; and farewell to you all.
For I will board her though she chide as loud
For I will love thee ne'er the less, my girl.
For I will raise her Statue in pure gold,
For aye thy foot-licker.
For breathing in their faces; beat the ground
For bringing wood in slowly. I'll fall flat;
For certes these are people of the island,
For curious I cannot be with you,
For dainties are all Kates, and therefore, Kate,
For else his project dies-to keep them living.
For ev'ry word. He is so kind that he now
For every trifle are they set upon me;
For fear of that I still will stay with thee
For he is nothing but a mighty lord.
For he is, sure, i' th' island.
For he's a bastard one-had plotted with them
For he's a spirit of persuasion, only
For here lies Juliet, and her beauty makes
For his advice, nor thought I had one. She
For his right noble mind, illustrious virtue,
For how I firmly am resolv'd you know;
For in Baptista's keep my treasure is.
For in a quarrel since I came ashore
For it engenders choler, planteth anger;
For it is you that have chalk'd forth the way
For kissing of their feet; yet always bending
For learning me your language!
For man or master. Then it follows thus:
For me as for you?
For me, I'll not be gone till I please myself.
For me, that I may surely keep mine oath,
For mischiefs manifold, and sorceries terrible
For more assurance that a living prince
For my poor son.
For never was a story of more woe
For now we sit to chat as well as eat.            [They sit]
For our access- whose hap shall be to have her
For our case is as theirs.
For our first merriment hath made thee jealous.
For patience she will prove a second Grissel,
For policy sits above conscience.                     Exeunt
For private quarrel 'twixt your Duke and him,
For quiet days, fair issue, and long life,
For raising this sea-storm?
For shame, thou hilding of a devilish spirit,
For she had a tongue with a tang,
For she is chang'd, as she had never been.
For she is sweeter than perfume itself
For since dishonour traffics with man's nature,
For so your doctors hold it very meet,
For so your father charg'd me at our parting:
For stale to catch these thieves.
For still 'tis beating in my mind, your reason
For such a one as leaves a gentleman
For such an injury would vex a very saint;
For that I knew it the most general way,
For that's my business to you-that you three
For the like loss I have her sovereign aid,
For then she never looks upon her lure.
For this one night; which, part of it, I'll waste
For this poor furniture and mean array.
For those defects I have before rehears'd-
For thou art pleasant, gamesome, passing courteous,
For thou shalt find she will outstrip all praise,
For though you lay here in this goodly chamber,
For to supply the places at the table,
For vainer hours, and tutors not so careful.
For which I wait for money.
For whom, and not for Tybalt, Juliet pin'd.
For yet ere supper time must I perform
For yet his honour never heard a play,
For you are spell-stopp'd.
For you shall hop without my custom, sir.
For you, most wicked sir, whom to call brother
For your advancement! Do you understand me?
For your physicians have expressly charg'd,
For, by this light, whereby I see thy beauty,
For, in my conscience, I was the first man
For, knowing thee to be but young and light-
For, now they are oppress'd with travel, they
For,she's not froward, but modest as the dove;
Forgive me, cousin.' Ah, dear Juliet,
Forswear Bianca and her love for ever.
Four, or five, women once, that tended me?
Freedom, high-day! high-day, freedom! freedom, high-
Fright me with urchin-shows, pitch me i' th' mire,
From Florence, and must here deliver them.
From Milan did supplant good Prospero;
From bogs, fens, flats, on Prosper fall, and make him
From eaves of reeds. Your charm so strongly works 'em
From me he got it. If thy greatness will
From me, the lord on't.
From mine own library with volumes that
From strange to stranger. Say, how came you hither?
From the still-vex'd Bermoothes, there she's hid;
From this world-wearied flesh. Eyes, look your last!
From toe to crown he'll fill our skins with pinches;
From what a torment I did free thee?
From whence 'tis nourish'd. The fire i' th' flint
Full of rose-water and bestrew'd with flowers;
Gave me my being and my father first,
Get me an iron crow and bring it straight
Give me Bianca for my patrimony.
Give me the light. Upon thy life I charge thee,
Give me those flowers. Do as I bid thee, go.
Give me thy hand, Kate; I will unto Venice,
Give us particulars of thy preservation;
Glad that you thus continue your resolve
Go call my men, and let us straight to him;
Go charge my goblins that they grind their joints
Go hence, to have more talk of these sad things;
Go in, Bianca.                                   Exit BIANCA
Go not away. What have you there, my friend?
Go on and fetch our horses back again.
Go ply thy needle; meddle not with her.
Go quick away-the story of my life,
Go take it hence; be gone, and say no more.
Go to Ventidius. Prithee be not sad,
Go to my chamber, put on clothes of mine.
Go to the feast, revel and domineer,
Go with me to clothe you as becomes you.              Exeunt
Go, Biondello, bid your mistress come to me.
Go, get thee gone, I say.
Go, hop me over every kennel home,
Go, some of you; whoe'er you find attach.
Go, tell the Prince; run to the Capulets;
God save you, Signior Gremio!
God save you, gentlemen!
God send you joy, Petruchio! 'Tis a match.
Goes upright with his carriage. How's the day?
Good Kate; I am a gentleman.
Good Lord, how bright and goodly shines the moon!
Good Lord, how you take it!
Good boy, wink at me, and say thou saw'st me not. Fare thee well.
Good for their meat and safer for their lives.
Good gentle youth, tempt not a desp'rate man.
Good master, take it not unkindly, pray,
Good morrow, Kate- for that's your name, I hear.
Good things will strive to dwell with't.
Good warrant of.
Good wombs have borne bad sons.
Gorg'd with the dearest morsel of the earth,
Great Juno, comes; I know her by her gait.
Great Timon, noble, worthy, royal Timon!'
Great men should drink with harness on their throats.
Grief of my son's exile hath stopp'd her breath.
Grim death, how foul and loathsome is thine image!
Grumio gave order how it should be done.
HORTENSIUS
Had I been any god of power, I would
Had his necessity made use of me,
Had never like executor. I forget;
Had sent to me first, but for my mind's sake;
Had you not fully laid my state before me,
Halts not particularly, but moves itself
Hap what hap may, I'll roundly go about her;
Haply some poison yet doth hang on them
Haply to wive and thrive as best I may;
Happier is he that has no friend to feed
Happier the man whom favourable stars
Happy the parents of so fair a child;
Hark in thine ear.
Hark you, sir; I'll have them very fairly bound-
Hark, hark! I hear the minstrels play.         [Music plays]
Harmonious charmingly. May I be bold
Has Ventidius and Lucullus denied him?
Has a new master-Get a new man.
Has friendship such a faint and milky heart
Has much disgrac'd me in't; I'm angry at him,
Has paid his men their wages. He ne'er drinks
Hast strangely stood the test; here, afore heaven,
Hast thou beheld a fresher gentlewoman?
Hast thou no mouth by land? What is the news?
Hast thou, which art but air, a touch, a feeling
Hath all so long detain'd you from your wife,
Hath blaz'd with lights and bray'd with minstrelsy,
Hath caus'd to belch up you; and on this island
Hath conjur'd to attend! I know the merchant.
Hath cost me a hundred crowns since supper-time!
Hath had no notice of these accidents;
Hath had no power yet upon thy beauty.
Hath kept with thy remembrance?
Hath made his meal on thee?
Hath promis'd me to help me to another,
Hath publish'd and proclaim'd it openly.
Hath suffered under praise.
Hath thwarted our intents. Come, come away.
Have I done since I went.
Have I given fire, and rifted Jove's stout oak
Have I in such a prison.
Have I lik'd several women, never any
Have I made shake, and by the spurs pluck'd up
Have I not heard great ordnance in the field,
Have I not heard the sea, puff'd up with winds,
Have I not in a pitched battle heard
Have I not in my time heard lions roar?
Have I, thy schoolmaster, made thee more profit
Have at you for a bitter jest or two.
Have given you here a third of mine own life,
Have just our theme of woe; but for the miracle,
Have leave and leisure to make love to her,
Have lost a brace of kinsmen. All are punish'd.
Have lost my daughter.
Have my old feet stumbled at graves! Who's there?
Have smit my credit. I love and honour him,
Have sunk the sea within the earth or ere
Have their ingratitude in them hereditary.
Have they been merry! which their keepers call
Have to my widow; and if she be froward,
Have wak'd their sleepers, op'd, and let 'em forth,
Have you so soon forgot the entertainment
Having first seiz'd his books; or with a log
Having no other reason
Having seen but him and Caliban. Foolish wench!
He bear himself with honourable action,
He calls for wine: 'A health!' quoth he, as if
He came alive to land.
He cannot want fifty-five hundred talents.
He commands us to provide and give great gifts,
He cried upon it at the merest loss,
He does deny him, in respect of his,
He does it under name of perfect love;
He goes away in a cloud. Call him, call him.
He had been abroad, carousing to his mates
He has brave utensils-for so he calls them-
He hath the jewel of my life in hold,
He is but outside; these pencill'd figures are
He is gone happy, and has left me rich.
He is no less than what we say he is.
He might have tried Lord Lucius or Lucullus;
He owes nine thousand; besides my former sum,
He passes.
He shall drink nought but brine; for I'll not show him
He that knows better how to tame a shrew,
He thinks me now incapable; confederates,
He told me Paris should have married Juliet.
He was indeed the Duke; out o' th' substitution,
He will chastise me.
He'll woo a thousand, 'point the day of marriage,
He's but a sot, as I am, nor hath not
He's gentle, and not fearful.
He's safe for these three hours.
Hear a foot fall; we now are near his cell.
Hearing thy mildness prais'd in every town,
Heavens, that I were a lord!
Heaviness in me.
Henceforth I vow it shall be so for me.
Her affability and bashful modesty,
Her and her blind boy's scandal'd company
Her dowry wealthy, and of worthy birth;
Her elder sister is so curst and shrewd
Her father keeps from all access of suitors,
Her father's liking; which to bring to pass,
Her name is Katherina Minola,
Her new-built virtue and obedience.
Her nurse is privy; and if aught in this
Her only fault, and that is faults enough,
Her sister Katherine welcome'd you withal?
Her waspish-headed son has broke his arrows,
Her widowhood, be it that she survive me,
Her wondrous qualities and mild behaviour,
Here comes Baptista. Set your countenance, sir.
Here comes a spirit of his, and to torment me
Here comes the rogue. Sirrah, where have you been?
Here comes your father. Never make denial;
Here in the churchyard; yet I will adventure.     [Retires.]
Here in this island we arriv'd; and here
Here is a gentleman whom by chance I met,
Here is a touch; is't good?
Here is my hand, and here I firmly vow
Here let us breathe, and haply institute
Here on this grass-plot, in this very place,
Here shall I die ashore-
Here's snip and nip and cut and slish and slash,
Here's that which is too weak to be a sinner, honest water, which
Here's to my love! [Drinks.] O true apothecary!
Here's-
Here, love, thou seest how diligent I am,
Here, my lord, a trifle of our love.
Here, sirrah Grumio, knock, I say.
Here, take away this dish.
Hereditary sloth instructs me.
Hic steterat Priami regia celsa senis.'
Hiding his bitter jests in blunt behaviour;
Him you term'd, sir, 'the good old lord, Gonzalo';
Him, and his innocent child; for which foul deed
Himself with his good arms in lusty stroke
His arms in this sad knot.
His brother, and yours, abide all three distracted,
His forward voice, now, is to speak well of his
His honesty rewards him in itself;
His lecture will be done ere you have tun'd.
His looks I fear, and his intents I doubt.        [Retires.]
His means most short, his creditors most strait.
His mother was a witch, and one so strong
His name and credit shall you undertake,
His name is Licio, born in Mantua.
His promises fly so beyond his state
His tears run down his beard, like winter's drops
His time doth take.
His youngest daughter, beautiful Bianca;
Hold, take this letter. Early in the morning
Holding thine ear close to the hollow ground.
Holla, ho! Curtis!
Holla, within!
Holy Gonzalo, honourable man,
Home both in word and deed. Most cruelly
Honest Ventidius! You mistake my love;
Hortensio, but we may blow our nails together, and fast it fairly
Hortensio, have you told him all her faults?
Hortensio; and I trow this is his house.
Hourly joys be still upon you!
How I may bear me here. My prime request,
How beauteous mankind is! O brave new world
How cam'st thou in this pickle?
How does my father? Gentles, methinks you frown;
How does thine ague?
How durst you villains bring it from the dresser
How fares the King and 's followers?
How fine my master is! I am afraid
How goes our reck'ning?
How goes the world that I am thus encount'red
How many goodly creatures are there here!
How many prodigal bits have slaves and peasants
How much she loves me- O, the kindest Kate!
How now! What news?
How now! what news?
How now! who is it?
How now?
How oft when men are at the point of death
How quickly were it gone!
How say you to a fat tripe finely broil'd?
How sharp the point of this remembrance is!-
How tame, when men and women are alone,
How things go from him, nor resumes no care
How thou cam'st here thou mayst.
How thou hast met us here, whom three hours since
How to deny them, who t' advance, and who
Humanely taken, all, all lost, quite lost;
I afeard of him! A very weak monster! The Man i' th'
I am a gentleman of Verona, sir,
I am arriv'd for fruitful Lombardy,
I am as peremptory as she proud-minded;
I am asham'd that women are so simple
I am content to be Lucentio,
I am content, in a good father's care,
I am in all affected as yourself;
I am my father's heir and only son;
I am not of that feather to shake of
I am sent expressly to your lordship.
I am skilless of; but, by my modesty,
I am sure, sweet Kate, this kindness merits thanks.
I am the best of them that speak this speech,
I am thus resolv'd: on Sunday next you know
I am to get a man- whate'er he be
I am to thank you for't.
I am your neighbour, and was suitor first.
I am your wife in all obedience.
I am your wife, if you will marry me;
I arn no breeching scholar in the schools,
I bade the rascal knock upon your gate,
I bear my sweet Bianca, if I can by any means light on a fit man
I bleed inwardly for my lord.                           Exit
I boarded the King's ship; now on the beak,
I call the gods to witness I will choose
I can recover him, and keep him tame, I will not take
I can, Petruchio, help thee to a wife
I care not what, so it be wholesome food.
I chose her when I could not ask my father
I clear'd him with five talents. Greet him from me,
I come to have thee thrust me out of doors.
I come to observe; I give thee warning on't.
I come to wive it wealthily in Padua;
I could recover the shore, five and thirty leagues, off
I cried to dream again.
I deriv'd liberty.
I did but tell her she mistook her frets,
I did not bid you mar it to the time.
I do beseech thy greatness, give him blows,
I do beseech you, good my lords, keep on;
I do not lie.
I do not love to look on.
I do not sleep: I see, I hear, I speak;
I do not think thou canst; for then thou wast not
I do present you with a man of mine,
I do remember well where I should be,
I doubt whether their legs be worth the sums
I dreamt my master and another fought,
I ever saw so noble.
I fear
I fear you have done yourself some wrong; a word.
I fear, a madness held me. This must crave-
I fear, for ever. Milan and Naples have
I feel my master's passion! This slave
I find my zenith doth depend upon
I flam'd amazement. Sometime I'd divide,
I found the effect of love in idleness;
I gave it freely ever; and there's none
I had rather crack my sinews, break my back,
I have a hundred milch-kine to the pail,
I have broke your hest to say so!
I have curs'd them without cause.                   [Kneels]
I have done nothing but in care of thee,
I have ey'd with best regard; and many a time
I have forgot your name; but, sure, that part
I have forsworn.
I have from their confines call'd to enact
I have in this rough work shap'd out a man
I have left asleep; and for the rest o' th' fleet,
I have one word to say to you. Look you, my good lord,
I have retir'd me to a wasteful cock
I have with such provision in mine art
I here abjure; and, when I have requir'd
I here bestow a simple instrument,
I here could pluck his Highness' frown upon you,
I hope this reason stands for my excuse.
I kill'd a man, and fear I was descried.
I knew not what to take and what to leave? Ha!          Exit
I know him well. You are very welcome, sir.
I know it by thy trembling; now Prosper works upon thee.
I know my lord hath spent of Timon's wealth,
I know not what; but formal in apparel,
I know the boy will well usurp the grace,
I know you think to dine with me to-day,
I long to hear him call the drunkard 'husband';
I love her ten times more than e'er I did.
I love thee well in that thou lik'st it not.
I married them; and their stol'n marriage day
I may entitle thee my loving father:
I may have welcome 'mongst the rest that woo,
I mean Hortensio is afeard of you.
I mean our preservation, few in millions
I must and will have Katherine to my wife.
I must be round with him. Now he comes from hunting.
I must begin with rudiments of art,
I must dance bare-foot on her wedding-day,
I must entreat you honour me so much
I must uneasy make, lest too light winning
I ne'er again shall see her. O thou mine heir
I needs must rest me.
I never tasted Timon in my life,
I never thought it possible or likely.
I never yet beheld that special face
I pray thee, mark me that a brother should
I pray you stand good father to me now;
I pray you tell me what you meant by that.
I pray, awake, sir. If you love the maid,
I prithee but repair to me next morning.
I prithee go and get me some repast;
I prithee, sister Kate, untie my hands.
I prize above my dukedom.
I promis'd to enquire carefully
I prophesied, if a gallows were on land,
I ratify this my rich gift. O Ferdinand!
I saw him beat the surges under him,
I saw their weapons drawn-there was a noise,
I see a woman may be made a fool
I see no reason but suppos'd Lucentio
I shak'd you, sir, and cried; as mine eyes open'd,
I should be arguing still upon that doubt;
I should fear those that dance before me now
I should inform thee farther. Lend thy hand,
I should not urge it half so faithfully.
I should report this now, would they believe me?
I smell sweet savours, and I feel soft things.
I tell thee, I, that thou hast marr'd her gown.
I tell thee, Licio, this is wonderful.
I tell you 'tis incredible to believe.
I tell you, sir, she bears me fair in hand.
I tender to thy hand. All thy vexations
I therein do forget.
I think I shall command your welcome here,
I think thou hast the veriest shrew of all.
I thought to have told thee of it; but I fear'd
I thus neglecting worldly ends, all dedicated
I told you, I, he was a frantic fool,
I weigh my friend's affection with mine own.
I were a huge man I should fear to drink at meals.
I will be correspondent to command,
I will be married to a wealtlly widow
I will be master of what is mine own-
I will be sure my Katherine shall be fine.
I will be very kind, and liberal
I will continue that I broach'd in jest.
I will discase me, and myself present
I will discharge thee.
I will kneel to him.
I will not go to-day; and ere I do,
I will not sleep, Hortensio, till I see her;
I will requite you with as good a thing;
I will resist such entertainment till
I will some other be- some Florentine,
I will tell no tales.
I will to Venice; Sunday comes apace;
I will with you, if you be so contented,
I wonder men dare trust themselves with men.
I would be good to thee.
I would esteem him worth a dozen such.
I would have put my wealth into donation,
I would my valiant master would destroy thee.
I would not for the world.
I would not lose the dog for twenty pound.
I would not so!-and would no more endure
I would not wed her for a mine of gold.
I' th' afternoon to sleep; there thou mayst brain him,
I' th' filthy mantled pool beyond your cell,
I'd rather than the worth of thrice the sum
I'd strive to tell you. We were dead of sleep,
I'd such a courage to do him good. But now return,
I'll attend her here,
I'll be his surety.
I'll bear him no more sticks, but follow thee,
I'll bear your logs the while; pray give me that;
I'll bring mine action on the proudest he
I'll bring you to your ship, and so to Naples,
I'll buckler thee against a million.
I'll bury thee in a triumphant grave.
I'll carry it to the pile.
I'll come by Naples. Draw thy sword. One stroke
I'll drown my book.                            [Solem music]
I'll fight their legions o'er.
I'll find about the making of the bed;
I'll fish for thee, and get thee wood enough.
I'll in to counsel them; haply my presence
I'll keep mine own despite of all the world.
I'll leave her houses three or four as good
I'll make him glad to seem Vincentio,
I'll manacle thy neck and feet together.
I'll mend it with a largess. Take your paper too,
I'll none of it; hence! make your best of it.
I'll not be tied to hours nor 'pointed times,
I'll not budge an inch, boy; let him come, and kindly.
I'll not serve him; he is not valiant.
I'll plead for you myself but you shall have him.
I'll seek him deeper than e'er plummet sounded,
I'll set thee free for this.  [To FERDINAND]  A word, good
I'll tell you news indifferent good for either.
I'll tell you true; I'll call to you.
I'll tell you, Sir Lucentio: when the priest
I'll try how you can sol-fa, and sing it.
I'll venture so much of my hawk or hound,
I'll wait upon you instantly.
I, not rememb'ring how I cried out then,
If I achieve not this young modest girl.
If I departed not and left him there.
If I did stay to look on his intents.
If I may have your daughter to my wife,
If I should pay you for't as 'tis extoll'd,
If I should say, I saw such islanders,
If I speak true! If hollowly, invert
If I want gold, steal but a beggar's dog
If I would broach the vessels of my love,
If I would sell my horse and buy twenty moe
If Venus or her son, as thou dost know,
If either of you both love Katherina,
If he were that which now he's like-that's dead;
If his occasion were not virtuous
If it be husbanded with modesty.
If it would please him come and marry her!'
If love have touch'd you, nought remains but so:
If money were as certain as your waiting,
If not, I'll die your maid. To be your fellow
If not, elsewhere they meet with charity;
If not, to Signior Gremio.
If now 'twere fit to do't. At the first sight
If now I court not, but omit, my fortunes
If of life you keep a care,
If our betters play at that game, we must not dare
If she and I be pleas'd, what's that to you?
If she be curst, it is for policy,
If she be mated with an equal husband?
If she deny to wed, I'll crave the day
If she do bid me pack, I'll give her thanks,
If she had not a spirit to resist.
If that be all, masters, I hear no harm.
If the ill spirit have so fair a house,
If this be court'sy, sir, accept of it.
If this be not that you look for, I have more to say,
If this might be a brother.
If thou account'st it shame, lay it on me;
If thou dost break her virgin-knot before
If thou neglect'st, or dost unwillingly
If thou rememb'rest aught, ere thou cam'st here,
If wealthily, then happily in Padua.
If whilst I live she will be only mine.
If you accept them, then their worth is great.
If you be maid or no?
If you be pleas'd, retire into my cell
If you but knew how you the purpose cherish,
If you like me, she shall have me and mine.
If you should die before him, where's her dower?
If you should smile, he grows impatient.
If you strike me, you are no gentleman;
If, Biondello, thou wert come ashore,
Imagine 'twere the right Vincentio.
Immediate are my needs, and my relief
Importune him for my moneys; be not ceas'd
Imprimis, we came down a foul hill, my master riding behind my
Imprison'd thou didst painfully remain
Imprison'd, and in scarcity of friends,
In a cowslip's bell I lie;
In a poor isle; and all of us ourselves
In a wide sea of tax. No levell'd malice
In all my lands and leases whatsoever.
In all these circumstances I'll instruct you.
In an odd angle of the isle, and sitting,
In brief, sir, sith it your pleasure is,
In brief, sir, study what you most affect.
In count'nance somewhat doth resemble you.
In country footing.
In cypress chests my arras counterpoints,
In dear employment. Therefore hence, be gone.
In different pleasures. Pray you, let us in.
In dignity, and for the liberal arts
In few, they hurried us aboard a bark;
In gait and countenance surely like a father.
In giving him his right.
In his tail.
In ivory coffers I have stuff'd my crowns;
In mine own cell, till thou didst seek to violate
In music, instruments, and poetry,
In our condition.
In peril to incur your former malady,
In qualities of the best. This man of thine
In resolution as I swore before.                        Exit
In such another trick. Go bring the rabble,
In the dark backward and abysm of time?
In the line-grove which weather-fends your cell;
In the preferment of the eldest sister.
In the same fashion as you gave in charge;
In the very end of harvest!
In their distractions. They now are in my pow'r;
In this hard rock, whiles you do keep from me
In this strange stare?
In token of which duty, if he please,
In troops I have dispers'd them 'bout the isle.
In virtue than in vengeance; they being penitent,
In what I farther shall intend to do,
In what thou hadst to say; so, with good life
In yours and my discharge.
Incens'd the seas and shores, yea, all the creatures,
Incite them to quick motion; for I must
Infects one comma in the course I hold,
Infused with a fortitude from heaven,
Inhabits here. Some heavenly power guide us
Instinctively have quit it. There they hoist us,
Into a cloven pine; within which rift
Into a great estate. When he was poor,
Into baboon and monkey.
Intolerable, not to be endur'd!
Iron may hold with her, but never lutes.
Is 'mongst the dead, and all the lands thou hast
Is a plain fish, and no doubt marketable.
Is almost come.  [To the SPIRITS]  Well done; avoid; no
Is but his steward; no meed but he repays
Is common; every day, some sailor's wife,
Is crimson in thy lips and in thy cheeks,
Is daughter to this famous Duke of Milan,
Is empty on the back of Montague,
Is every flatterer's spirit. Who can call him his friend
Is fashion'd for the journey dull and heavy.
Is guilty of this lamentable chance! The lady stirs.
Is hard at study; pray, now, rest yourself;
Is like the sun's, but not like his recoverable.
Is much beyond our loss. Our hint of woe
Is not so long as is a tedious tale.
Is partly to behold my lady's face,
Is rank'd with all deserts, all kind of natures
Is richly furnished with plate and gold,
Is rounded with a sleep. Sir, I am vex'd;
Is she the goddess that hath sever'd us,
Is so possess'd with guilt. Come from thy ward;
Is straight and slender, and as brown in hue
Is that an answer?
Is the King's ship; in the deep nook, where once
Is the third man that e'er I saw; the first
Is there any man has rebus'd your worship?
Is tight and yare, and bravely rigg'd, as when
Is to make midnight mushrooms, that rejoice
Is, I know how to curse. The red plague rid you
Is- that she is intolerable curst,
It blots thy beauty as frosts do bite the meads,
It burneth in the Capels' monument.
It carries a brave form. But 'tis a spirit.
It comes in charity to thee; for all thy living
It hath pleas'd the gods to remember my father's age,
It is a comforter.
It is a sleepy language, and thou speak'st
It is supposed the fair creature died-
It must not bear my daughter.
It seldom visits sorrow; when it doth,
It shall be moon, or star, or what I list,
It shall be what o'clock I say it is.
It shall become to serve all hopes conceiv'd,
It shall go hard if Cambio go without her.              Exit
It should the good ship so have swallow'd and
It shows but little love or judgment in him.
It skills not much; we'll fit him to our turn-
It sounds no more; and sure it waits upon
It stains the glory in that happy verse
It struck mine ear most terribly.
It turns in less than two nights? O you gods,
It tutors nature. Artificial strife
It were impossible I should speed amiss.
It will be pastime passing excellent,
It would control my dam's god, Setebos,
It would unclew me quite.
Iwis it is not halfway to her heart;
JEWELLER
Join with me to forbid him her resort;
Juno and Ceres whisper seriously.
Juno sings her blessings on you.
Just as my master had direction.
Just as you left them; all prisoners, sir,
Kate of Kate Hall, my super-dainty Kate,
Kate, eat apace. And now, my honey love,
Katherine, that cap of yours becomes you not:
Keep house and ply his book, welcome his friends,
Keep house and port and servants, as I should;
Kill the still-closing waters, as diminish
Kind my lord.
Kindness in women, not their beauteous looks,
King's fair daughter Claribel to the King of Tunis.
Know thine own meaning, but wouldst gabble like
Know, sir, that I am call'd Hortensio.
Knowing I lov'd my books, he furnish'd me
Knows not which way to stand, to look, to speak.
LUCILIUS
LUCIUS
LUCULLUS
Laid them before you; you would throw them off
Last night she slept not, nor to-night she shall not;
Lay forth the gown.
Leave not a rack behind. We are such stuff
Leave shall you have to court her at your pleasure.
Leave your crisp channels, and on this green land
Leaving no tract behind.
Left solely heir to all his lands and goods,
Lest I might anger thee.
Lest they should spy my windpipe's dangerous notes:
Lest, over-eying of his odd behaviour,
Let grief and sorrow still embrace his heart
Let liberty make use of; space enough
Let me embrace thine age, whose honour cannot
Let me embrace with old Vincentio;
Let me remember thee what thou hast promis'd,
Let molten coin be thy damnation,
Let one attend him with a silver basin
Let specialities be therefore drawn between us,
Let them affright thee. I beseech thee, youth,
Let them want nothing that my house affords.
Let us be jocund; will you troll the catch
Let us not burden our remembrances with
Let us that are poor petitioners speak too.
Let's assist them,
Let's be no Stoics nor no stocks, I pray,
Let's each one send unto his wife,
Let's ha' some sport with 'em.
Let's see your piece.
Let's see; I think 'tis now some seven o'clock,
Letters should not be known; riches, poverty,
Lie in a pitch'd field.
Lie there my art. Wipe thou thine eyes; have comfort.
Lie tumbling in my barefoot way, and mount
Lies at my mercy all mine enemies.
Like a good parent, did beget of him
Like bulls, or rather lions; did't not wake you?
Like envious floods o'er-run her lovely face,
Like madness is the glory of this life,
Like pleasant travellers, to break a jest
Like poison given to work a great time after,
Like to a censer in a barber's shop.
Ling'ring perdition, worse than any death
Listen to me, and if you speak me fair
Live, and be prosperous; and farewell, good fellow.
Lives in these touches, livelier than life.
Lo, now, lo!
Long continuance, and increasing,
Look how thy servants do attend on thee,
Look that you take upon you as you should.
Look what I speak, or do, or think to do,
Look what a wardrobe here is for thee!
Lord Timon will be left a naked gull,
Lord, how it looks about! Believe me, sir,
Lords
Lords, Senators, Officers, Soldiers, Servants, Thieves, and
Loud 'larums, neighing steeds, and trumpets' clang?
Lov'd Mall, Meg, and Marian, and Margery,
Lov'd none in the world so well as Lucentio.
Lucentio's father is arriv'd in Padua,
Lucentio, you shall supply the bridegroom's place;
Lucullus you; I hunted with his honour to-day. You to Sempronius.
Lucullus, entreats your company to-morrow to hunt with him and
MERCER
MERCHANT
Madam, undress you, and come now to bed.
Made me acquainted with a weighty cause
Made me exchange my state with Tranio,
Made such a sinner of his memory,
Magic of bounty, all these spirits thy power
Maid's mild behaviour and sobriety.
Make friends invited, and proclaim the banns;
Make holiday; your rye-straw hats put on,
Make it no wonder; if you knew my business,
Make not too rash a trial of him, for
Make sacred even his stirrup, and through him
Make the prize light.  [To FERDINAND]  One word more; I
Make us strange stuff.
Makes this place Paradise.
Many a bounteous year must be employ'd
Many, nay, almost any.
Married my daughter there; for, coming thence,
Mars's hot minion is return'd again;
Master of this design, did give us, with
Master, has my fellow Tranio stol'n your clothes?
Master, master! News, and such old news as you never heard of!
Master, your love must live a maid at home;
May I be so bold to know the cause of your coming?
May catch a wrench- would all were well!- 'tis pity-
May do much danger. Friar John, go hence,
May know if you remain upon this island;
May now provoke them to.
May show her duty and make known her love?'
May well abate the over-merry spleen,
Me and thy crying self.
Me shall you find ready and willing
Meaning to keep her closely at my cell
Measure us back to Naples? Keep in Tunis,
Measures my husband's sorrow by his woe;
Melting the darkness, so their rising senses
Men and men's fortunes could I frankly use
Men must learn now with pity to dispense;
Men shut their doors against a setting sun.
Mercutio's kinsman, noble County Paris!
Merrily, merrily shall I live now
Methinks I could deal kingdoms to my friends
Methinks false hearts should never have sound legs.
Methinks he looks as though he were in love.
Methinks they should invite them without knives:
Methought the billows spoke, and told me of it;
Might I but through my prison once a day
Mine enemy has more power.
Mine eyes cannot hold out water, methinks. To forget their
Mine eyes, ev'n sociable to the show of thine,
Mine heir from forth the beggars of the world,
Mine honour into lust, to take away
Miscarried by my fault, let my old life
Mistake my fortunes; I am wealthy in my friends.
Moe widows in them of this business' making,
Molto honorato signor mio Petruchio.
Moon! A most poor credulous monster! Well drawn,
More fierce and more inexorable far
More pleasant, pithy, and effectual,
More pregnantly than words. Yet you do well
More quaint, more pleasing, nor more commendable;
More that I may call men than you, good friend,
Most busy, least when I do it.
Most hungerly on your sight.
Most often, do so near the bottom run
Most rich in Timon's nod.
Most welcome, sir!                             [They salute]
Moves in this lip! To th' dumbness of the gesture
Much business appertaining.                             Exit
Much feater than before. My brother's servants
Much good dich thy good heart, Apemantus!
Much good do it unto thy gentle heart!
Much more a shrew of thy impatient humour.
Muddy, ill-seeming, thick, bereft of beauty;
Music and poesy use to quicken you;
Music, make their welcome.                        Exit CUPID
Must I be his last refuge? His friends, like physicians,
Must ask my child forgiveness!
Must be so too, if heed me; which to do
Must by us both be spent most preciously.
Must get a father, call'd suppos'd Vincentio;
Must know and own; this thing of darkness I
Must not be toss'd and turn'd to me in words,
Must rectify our knowledge.
Must stead us all, and me amongst the rest;
My Alcibiades.- With me? What is your will?
My banquet is to close our stomachs up
My best beloved and approved friend,
My books and instruments shall be my company,
My bosky acres and my unshrubb'd down,
My boy shall fetch the scrivener presently.
My charms I'll break, their senses I'll restore,
My charms crack not, my spirits obey; and time
My daughter Katherine is to be married;
My dear son Ferdinand.
My dukedom of thee, which perforce I know
My dukedom since you have given me again,
My fair Bianca, bid my father welcome,
My falcon now is sharp and passing empty.
My father dead, my fortune lives for me;
My father is here look'd for every day
My father's bears more toward the market-place;
My father's loss, the weakness which I feel,
My father's of a better nature, sir,
My foot my tutor? Put thy sword up, traitor;
My friend when he must need me. I do know him
My hand is ready, may it do him ease.
My hangings all of Tyrian tapestry;
My heart as great, my reason haply more,
My heart fly to your service; there resides
My horse, my ox, my ass, my any thing,
My household stuff, my field, my barn,
My lessons make no music in three Parts.
My master is awak'd by great occasion
My master knows not but I am gone hence,
My men should call me 'lord'; I am your goodman.
My mind hath been as big as one of yours,
My mind presumes, for his own good and ours.
My name is call'd Vincentio, my dwelling Pisa,
My old bones ache. Here's a maze trod, indeed,
My present fancies.
My son is lost; and, in my rate, she too,
My spirits, as in a dream, are all bound up.
My strong imagination sees a crown
My tale provokes that question. Dear, they durst not,
My tongue will tell the anger of my heart,
My true preserver, and a loyal sir
My trusty servant well approv'd in all,
My uses cry to me, I must serve my turn
Myself am mov'd to woo thee for my wife.
Myself am struck in years, I must confess;
Myself condemned and myself excus'd.
Myself dispos'd to sleep.
Myself have spoke in vain.
Myself were mudded in that oozy bed
Nathaniel, Joseph, Nicholas, Philip, Walter, Sugarsop, and the
Nay, I have ta'en you napping, gentle love,
Nay, look not big, nor stamp, nor stare, nor fret;
Nay, then she must needs come.
Nay, then you jest; and now I well perceive
Near twenty years ago in Genoa,
Neighbour, this is a gift very grateful, I am sure of it. To
Never to marry with her though she would entreat;
Never to woo her more, but do forswear her,
Nightly shall be to strew, thy grave and weep.
No better than a poor and loathsome beggar.
No better than the earth he lies upon,
No blame belongs to thee. Ventidius lately
No longer for my flatterer; he is drown'd
No more amazement; tell your piteous heart
No occupation; all men idle, all;
No profit grows where is no pleasure ta'en;
No richer in return.
No sovereignty-
No sweet aspersion shall the heavens let fall
No tongue! All eyes! Be silent.                 [Soft music]
No use of metal, corn, or wine, or oil;
No villainous bounty yet hath pass'd my heart;
No worse than I, upon some agreement
No, it begins again.
No, nor to-morrow, not till I please myself.
No, not so much perdition as an hair
Nor a musician as I seem to be;
Nor be not grieved- she is of good esteem,
Nor bite the lip, as angry wenches will,
Nor came any of his bounties over me
Nor can imagination form a shape,
Nor can we be distinguish'd by our faces
Nor cease his flow of riot; takes no account
Nor fetch in firing
Nor get a messenger to bring it thee,
Nor hast thou pleasure to be cross in talk;
Nor is your firm resolve unknown to me
Nor lead me, like a firebrand, in the dark
Nor never needed that I should entreat,
Nor no such men as you have reckon'd up,
Nor scrape trenchering, nor wash dish.
Nor tackle, sail, nor mast; the very rats
Nor will he know his purse, or yield me this,
Not a frown further. Go release them, Ariel;
Not a relation for a breakfast, nor
Not one accompanying his declining foot.
Not only with what my revenue yielded,
Not seldom, nor no slight checks, when I have
Not without fair reward.                        Exit SERVANT
Now I perceive thou art a reverend father.
Now come, my Ariel, bring a corollary,
Now do your duty throughly, I advise you.
Now gins to bite the spirits. I do beseech you,
Now in the waist, the deck, in every cabin,
Now is the day we long have looked for;
Now let him speak; 'tis charity to show.                Exit
Now must the world point at poor Katherine,
Now my dear lady, hath mine enemies
Now sadder, that you come so unprovided.
Now to guard sure their master.
Now useless, boil'd within thy skull! There stand,
Now, I fear thee not.
Now, Kate, I am a husband for your turn;
Now, fellows, you are welcome.
Now, for my life, the knave doth court my love.
Now, on the Sunday following shall Bianca
Now, where's my wife?
Nurture can never stick; on whom my pains,
O churl! drunk all, and left no friendly drop
O fie, fie, fie!
O fine villain! A silken doublet, a velvet hose, a scarlet cloak,
O heavens, that they were living both in Naples,
O look, sir; look, sir! Here is more of us!
O mercy, God! what masquing stuff is here?
O no, good Kate; neither art thou the worse
O noble lord, bethink thee of thy birth!
O sland'rous world! Kate like the hazel-twig
O that men's ears should be
O' th' dreadful thunder-claps, more momentary
O'er whom I give thee pow'r, here to this place.
O'er-priz'd all popular rate, in my false brother
O'erstunk their feet.
O, be thou Dian, and let her be Kate;
O, how I long to have some chat with her!
O, how we joy to see your wit restor'd!
O, let me see thee walk. Thou dost not halt.
O, may diseases only work upon't!
O, much I fear some ill unthrifty thing.
O, that a mighty man of such descent,
O, that once more you knew but what you are!
O, what more favour can I do to thee
O, you are novices! 'Tis a world to see,
Obey the bride, you that attend on her;
Obey, and be attentive. Canst thou remember
Obey, and go with me; for thou must die.
Of Naples and of Milan, what strange fish
Of Sycorax, toads, beetles, bats, light on you!
Of a glad father compass thee about!
Of a poor pothecary, and therewithal
Of a whole herd of lions.
Of all the world I lov'd, and to him put
Of any thing the image, tell me, that
Of dear import; and the neglecting it
Of death, contagion, and unnatural sleep.
Of ever-angry bears; it was a torment
Of every creature's best!
Of excellent dumb discourse.
Of fruitful land, all which shall be her jointure.
Of grave and austere quality, tender down
Of greater sums than I have promised.
Of her awaking, here untimely lay
Of homage, and I know not how much tribute,
Of it own kind, all foison, all abundance,
Of love between your daughter and himself;
Of my instruction hast thou nothing bated
Of officer and office, set all hearts i' th' state
Of present dues. The future comes apace;
Of raging waste? It cannot hold; it will not.
Of roaring, shrieking, howling, jingling chains,
Of such a nature is his politic love.
Of such possessions, and so high esteem,
Of sulphurous roaring the most mighty Neptune
Of that report which I so oft have heard.
Of the beast Caliban and his confederates
Of the salt deep,
Of thee, my dear one, thee, my daughter, who
Of their afflictions, and shall not myself,
Of their friends' gift?
Of these our dear-belov'd solemnized,
Of two most rare affections! Heavens rain grace
Of what is to continue. Never mind
Of wheat, rye, barley, vetches, oats, and pease;
Of whence I am, nor that I am more better
Of whom so often I have heard renown
Of whom your swords are temper'd may as well
Of whom, even to the state's best health, I have
Of your entire affection to Bianca;
Off with my boots, you rogues! you villains, when?
Off with that bauble, throw it underfoot.
Old Signior Gremio has in Padua;
Old fashions please me best; I am not so nice
On purpose trimm'd up for Semiramis.
On that which breeds between 'em!
On the bat's back I do fly
On the blest lovers.
On the curl'd clouds. To thy strong bidding task
On their sustaining garments not a blemish,
On them to look, and practise by myself.
On this young man; for learning and behaviour
On whom I may confer what I have got.
On whom these airs attend! Vouchsafe my pray'r
Once in a month recount what thou hast been,
One do I personate of Lord Timon's frame,
One dowle that's in my plume; my fellow-ministers
One might interpret.
One of my sex; no woman's face remember,
One of their kind, that relish all as sharply,
One rich enough to be Petruchio's wife,
One spirit to command; they all do hate him
One that you love.
One thing more rests, that thyself execute-
One thing or other. When thou didst not, savage,
One writ with me in sour misfortune's book!
One, Kate, that you must kiss and be acquainted with.
Only, good master, while we do admire
Open the tomb, lay me with Juliet.                   [Dies.]
Open-ey'd conspiracy
Or I shall so bemete thee with thy yard
Or Night kept chain'd below.
Or am I mad, hearing him talk of Juliet
Or be not, I'll not swear.
Or blessed was't we did?
Or both dissemble deeply their affections;
Or cut his wezand with thy knife. Remember
Or do I dream? Or have I dream'd till now?
Or else good night your vow!
Or else my heart, concealing it, will break;
Or else new form'd 'em; having both the key
Or else our spell is marr'd.
Or else you get no beef of Grumio.
Or else you like not of my company.
Or ere I journey to your father's house.
Or ere your pulse twice beat.                           Exit
Or in my cell there would she kill herself.
Or is the adder better than the eel
Or it hath drawn me rather. But 'tis gone.
Or seek for rule, supremacy, and sway,
Or shall I send my daughter Kate to you?
Or should have spoke ere this. Look down, you gods,
Or so devote to Aristotle's checks
Or some enchanted trifle to abuse me,
Or that for which I live; who once again
Or that we quit this place. Let's draw our weapons.
Or what you will command me will I do,
Or wilt thou ride? Thy horses shall be trapp'd,
Or wilt thou sleep? We'll have thee to a couch
Or you stol'n his? or both? Pray, what's the news?
Or, Signior Gremio, you, know any such,
Or, if not so, until the sun be set.
Or, wanting that, with tears distill'd by moans.
Or, when you wak'd, so wak'd as if you slept.
Our King and company; the next, our ship-
Our fine musician groweth amorous.
Our frustrate search on land. Well, let him go.
Our human generation you shall find
Our own precedent passions do instruct us
Our poesy is as a gum, which oozes
Our purses shall be proud, our garments poor;
Our revels now are ended. These our actors,
Our royal, good, and gallant ship; our master
Our sorrow with our comfort.
Our strength as weak, our weakness past compare,
Our worser genius can, shall never melt
Out of his charity, who being then appointed
Out of hope of all but my share of the feast.           Exit
Out of mine own; his days and times are past,
Out of my way, unless he bid 'em; but
Out of the dukedom, and confer fair Milan
Out of this fearful country!
Out of thy sleep. What is it thou didst say?
Out three years old.
Out, you rogue! you pluck my foot awry;
Owe their estates unto him.
PAINTER
PHILOTUS
PHRYNIA
POET
Padua to begin his wooing that would thoroughly woo her, wed her,
Pardon, I pray thee, for my mad mistaking.
Passion as they, be kindlier mov'd than thou art?
Pawn me to this your honour, she is his.
Pays interest for't; his land's put to their books.
Peace, Tranio!
Pedascule, I'll watch you better yet.
Perchance he will not mind me.
Perchance some single vantages you took
Perform'd to point the tempest that I bade thee?
Perform'd, my Ariel; a grace it had, devouring.
Perhaps you mark'd not what's the pith of all.
Periods his comfort.
Persons in the Induction
Persuade him that he hath been lunatic,
Petruchio
Petruchio, I shall be your ben venuto.                Exeunt
Pewter and brass, and all things that belongs
Pisa renowned for grave citizens.
Pisa, renowned for grave citizens,
Pitchers have ears, and I have many servants;
Pitiful sight! here lies the County slain;
Plants with goodly burden bowing;
Play the men.
Plays in the right hand, thus; but tell him
Please ye we may contrive this afternoon,
Please you to dispose yourselves.
Plung'd in the foaming brine, and quit the vessel,
Point to rich ends. This my mean task
Poison, I see, hath been his timeless end.
Poor living corse, clos'd in a dead man's tomb!        Exit.
Poor sacrifices of our enmity!
Pray God, sir, your wife send you not a worse.
Pray, set it down and rest you; when this burns,
Pray, sit; more welcome are ye to my fortunes
Prefer them hither; for to cunning men
Preserve the King!                               [They wake]
Prithee, man, look cheerly. These old fellows
Proceed in practice with my younger daughter;
Procure me music ready when he wakes,
Professes to persuade-the King his son's alive,
Prompted you in the ebb of your estate
Provide the feast, father, and bid the guests;
Provokes itself, and like the current flies
Put finger in the eye, an she knew why.
Put on a most importunate aspect,
Put the wild waters in this roar, allay them.
Puts my apparel and my count'nance on,
Rage like an angry boar chafed with sweat?
Rain sacrificial whisperings in his ear,
Raise up the Montagues; some others search.
Rather than want a spirit; appear, and pertly.
Ready to drop upon me, that, when I wak'd,
Recanting goodness, sorry ere 'tis shown;
Receiv'd a second life; and second father
Refusing her grand hests, she did confine thee,
Remember I have done thee worthy service,
Remove you hence. I knew you at the first
Renown'd in Padua for her scolding tongue.
Rescue thy mistress, if thou be a man.
Return so much, I have shook my head and wept;
Return'd my letter back. Then all alone
Revenge it on him-for I know thou dar'st,
Rheims; as cunning in Greek, Latin, and other languages, as the
Rich garments, linens, stuffs, and necessaries,
Rich scarf to my proud earth-why hath thy Queen
Right son to the right Vincentio,
Right true it is your son Lucentio here
Rise, Grumio, rise; we will compound this quarrel.
Romeo! O, pale! Who else? What, Paris too?
Romeo, there dead, was husband to that Juliet;
SEMPRONIUS
SERVILIUS
Sacred and sweet was all I saw in her.
Said he not so? or did I dream it so?
Save for the son that she did litter here,
Save only the gods. Now his friends are dead,
Save, from my glass, mine own; nor have I seen
Saw I him touch'd with anger so distemper'd.
Saw'st thou not, boy, how Silver made it good
Say 'What is it your honour will command?'
Say I command her come to me.                    Exit GRUMIO
Say she be mute, and will not speak a word;
Say that she frown; I'll say she looks as clear
Say that she rail; why, then I'll tell her plain
Say thou wilt walk: we will bestrew the ground.
Say, Signior Gremio, what can you assure her?
Says it is past her cure.
Scarcity and want shall shun you,
Schoolmasters will I keep within my house
Scratching her legs, that one shall swear she bleeds
Sea-water shalt thou drink; thy food shall be
See them well entertain'd.                              Exit
See this dispatch'd with all the haste thou canst;
See thou deliver it to my lord and father.
See what a scourge is laid upon your hate,
See where she comes, and brings your froward wives
See, doth he breathe?
Seeing too much sadness hath congeal'd your blood,
Seem to besiege, and make his bold waves tremble,
Seems to cry out 'How shall that Claribel
Seize thee that list. If once I find thee ranging,
Send for your daughter by your servant here;
Servants to Lucentio
Servants to Petruchio
Serving of becks and jutting-out of bums!
Set Caliban and his companions free;
Set a fair fashion on our entertainment,
Set foot under thy table. Tut, a toy!
Set roaring war. To the dread rattling thunder
Sevenfold above itself; no gift to him
Shake off slumber, and beware.
Shall I try friends. You shall perceive how you
Shall I twice lose.
Shall be my precedent; as thou got'st Milan,
Shall free thee from the tribute which thou payest;
Shall have my Bianca's love.
Shall hoodwink this mischance; therefore speak softly.
Shall in despite enforce a watery eye.
Shall make me chide thee, if not hate thee. What!
Shall win my love; and so I take my leave,
Shall win the wager which we will propose.
Shall, for that vast of night that they may work,
Shalt have the air at freedom; for a little
She eat no meat to-day, nor none shall eat;
She hung about my neck, and kiss on kiss
She is my goods, my chattels, she is my house,
She is not for your turn, the more my grief.
She is not hot, but temperate as the morn;
She is your own. Else, you must pardon me;
She is your treasure, she must have a husband;
She lov'd not the savour of tar nor of pitch,
She may more suitors have, and me for one.
She moves me not, or not removes, at least,
She said thou wast my daughter; and thy father
She sings as sweetly as a nightingale.
She vied so fast, protesting oath on oath,
She wakes; and I entreated her come forth
She was the fairest creature in the world;
She will be pleas'd; then wherefore should I doubt?
She will beshrew me much that Romeo
She will not come; she bids you come to her.
She's apt to learn, and thankful for good turns.
Shortly shall all my labours end, and thou
Should ask if Katherine should be his wife,
Should be infused with so foul a spirit!
Should become Kings of Naples? O, rejoice
Should not upbraid our course. For all the rest,
Should presently extirpate me and mine
Should well agree with our external parts?
Show me this piece. I am joyful of your sights.
Show thee a jay's nest, and instruct thee how
Shows not till it be struck: our gentle flame
Side-stitches that shall pen thy breath up; urchins
Signior Baptista may remember me
Signior Baptista's liberality,
Signior Baptista, for this fiend of hell,
Signior Baptista, of whom I hear so well.
Signior Baptista, shall I lead the way?
Signior Baptista, you are happily met.
Signior Gremio, came you from the church?
Signior Gremio?
Signior Hortensio, thus it stands with me:
Signior Lucentio that his father is come from Pisa, and is here
Signior Petruchio, will you go with us,
Since I came to this isle. And in the morn
Since once he play'd a farmer's eldest son;
Since, of ourselves, ourselves are choleric,
Sir, by your leave: having come to Padua
Sir, to your pleasure humbly I subscribe;
Sirrah Grumio, go to your mistress;
Sirrah young gamester, your father were a fool
Sirrah, go see what trumpet 'tis that sounds-
Sirrah, go you to Bartholomew my page,
Sirrah, lead these gentlemen
Sirrah, what made your master in this place?
Sirs, I will practise on this drunken man.
Sit down, Kate, and welcome. Soud, soud, soud, soud!
Sit down, for thou must now know farther.
Sit still, and hear the last of our sea-sorrow.
Sit, then, and talk with her; she is thine own.
Six score fat oxen standing in my stalls,
Skipper, stand back; 'tis age that nourisheth.
Sly's son of Burton Heath; by birth a pedlar, by education a
So I to her, and so she yields to me;
So dear the love my people bore me; nor set
So dry he was for sway, wi' th' King of Naples,
So fearful were they of infection.
So full of valour that they smote the air
So have we all, of joy; for our escape
So his mind cankers. I will plague them all,
So honour peereth in the meanest habit.
So is she heir of Naples; 'twixt which regions
So it may prove an argument of laughter
So kind to heart 'tis not enough to give;
So much I love his heart. But I perceive
So perfect and so peerless, are created
So rare a wond'red father and a wise
So safely ordered that there is no soul-
So shall I no whit be behind in duty
So shall no foot upon the churchyard tread
So shall you quietly enjoy your hope
So well I know my duty to my elders.
So workmanly the blood and tears are drawn.
So, King, go safely on to seek thy son.               Exeunt
Softer and sweeter than the lustful bed
Some 'Juliet,' and some 'Paris'; and all run,
Some Neapolitan, or meaner man of Pisa.
Some better than his value- on the moment
Some comet or unusual prodigy?
Some few odd lads that you remember not.
Some food we had and some fresh water that
Some god o' th' island. Sitting on a bank,
Some heavenly music-which even now I do-
Some one be ready with a costly suit,
Some shall be pardon'd, and some punished;
Some subtleties o' th' isle, that will not let you
Some thousands of these logs, and pile them up,
Some tricks of desperation. All but mariners
Some vanity of mine art; it is my promise,
Some wanton charm upon this man and maid,
Something hath been amiss- a noble nature
Something too wildly, and my father's precepts
Sometime like apes that mow and chatter at me,
Sometimes a thousand twangling instruments
Sometimes you would call out for Cicely Hacket.
Sorrow on thee and all the pack of you
Sorry am I that our good will effects
Sounds, and sweet airs, that give delight, and hurt not.
Sour-ey'd disdain, and discord, shall bestrew
Speak not for him.                                    Exeunt
Speak not you for him; he's a traitor. Come;
Speak; tell me.
Speaks his own standing! What a mental power
Spirits
Spring come to you at the farthest,
Spurns down her late beloved, all his dependants,
Stand by and mark the manner of his teaching.
Stand to, and do as we.
Stay not to question, for the watch is coming.
Stay not, be gone. Live, and hereafter say
Stop thy unhallowed toil, vile Montague!
Strive mightily, but eat and drink as friends.
Subdues and properties to his love and tendance
Subject his coronet to his crown, and bend
Such a mad marriage never was before.
Such as he hath observ'd in noble ladies
Such as the daughter of Agenor had,
Such duty as the subject owes the prince,
Such duty to the drunkard let him do,
Such friends as time in Padua shall beget.
Such shapes, such gesture, and such sound, expressing,
Such war of white and red within her cheeks!
Sufficeth I am come to keep my word,
Sufficeth, my reasons are both good and weighty.      Exeunt
Suitors to Bianca
Suitors to her and rivals in my love;
Summon'd me hither to this short-grass'd green?
Supported his estate; nay, Timon's money
Supposing it a thing impossible-
Supposing that they saw the King's ship wreck'd,
Swear by this bottle how thou cam'st hither-I escap'd
Swears he will shoot no more, but play with sparrows,
Sweet Kate, embrace her for her beauty's sake.
Swinge me them soundly forth unto their husbands.
Sword, pike, knife, gun, or need of any engine,
T' excel the golden age.
THREE STRANGERS
TIMANDRA
TIMON of Athens
TITUS
Take in your love, and then let me alone.
Take no unkindness of his hasty words.
Take that, and mend the plucking off the other.
Take the ear strangely.
Take this of me, Kate of my consolation-
Take up my mistress' gown to his master's use!
Take with you your companions; as you look
Take you the lute, and you the set of books;
Take you your instrument, play you the whiles!
Takes virtuous copies to be wicked, like those that under hot
Talk not to me; I will go sit and weep,
Taste, Touch, Smell, pleas'd from thy table rise;
Tell him from me- as he will win my love-
Tell me her father's name, and 'tis enough;
Tell me thy mind; for I have Pisa left
Tell me, I beseech you, which is the readiest way
Tell me, sweet Kate, and tell me truly too,
Ten leagues beyond man's life; she that from Naples
Ten times more gentle than her father's crabbed;
Tender your own good fortune?
Th' affliction of my mind amends, with which,
Th' harmony of their tongues hath into bondage
Than Prospero, master of a full poor cell,
Than any woman in this waning age.
Than bees that made 'em.
Than empty tigers or the roaring sea.
Than feed it with such over-roasted flesh.
Than hath been taught by any of my trade;
Than he appears by speech; this is unwonted
Than my fortunes to me.                           [They sit]
Than now they are. There be that can rule Naples
Than one which holds a trencher.
Than other princess' can, that have more time
Than pard or cat o' mountain.
Than such that do e'en enemies exceed.
Than this of Juliet and her Romeo.
Than three great argosies, besides two galliasses,
Than to abhor himself; even he drops down
Than we bring men to comfort them;
Than with that hand that cut thy youth in twain
Than words can witness or your thoughts can guess.
Than you may call to comfort you, for I
Than you should such dishonour undergo,
Than you, unless you were a scholar, sir.
That Ferdinand is drown'd?
That I account them blessings; for by these
That I am Prospero, and that very duke
That I am dog-weary; but at last I spied
That I disdain; but for these other gawds,
That I have been thus pleasant with you both.
That I have fondly flatter'd her withal.
That I may make his lordship understand
That I might so have rated my expense
That I should yet absent me from your bed.
That I'll requite it last? No;
That Katherine and Petruchio should be married,
That Lucentio indeed had Baptista's youngest daughter.
That Timon's fortunes 'mong his friends can sink.
That all is done in reverend care of her-
That are given for 'em. Friendship's full of dregs:
That are of suppler joints, follow them swiftly,
That art to me as secret and as dear
That at the parting all the church did echo.
That bate and beat, and will not be obedient.
That beasts shall tremble at thy din.
That burn by day and night; and then I lov'd thee,
That calf-like they my lowing follow'd through
That calls our person from our morning rest?
That can assure my daughter greatest dower
That could control the moon, make flows and ebbs,
That covenants may be kept on either hand.
That deep and dreadful organ-pipe, pronounc'd
That dips in the same dish? For, in my knowing,
That done, conduct him to the drunkard's chamber,
That doth not wish you joy.
That down fell priest and book, and book and priest.
That e'er I sigh'd for. Pity move my father
That e'er received gift from him.
That ever Katherina will be woo'd.
That ever govern'd man.
That everything I look on seemeth green;
That fac'd and brav'd me in this matter so?
That feed'st me with the very name of meat.
That from my first have been inclin'd to thrift,
That gives not half so great a blow to hear
That has such people in't!
That hath to instrument this lower world
That have been so bedazzled with the sun
That have beheld me give away myself
That have by marriage made thy daughter mine,
That he should hither come as this dire night
That he will neither know how to maintain it
That he's undrown'd.
That heaven finds means to kill your joys with love!
That hour destroy us?
That if you now beheld them your affections
That in a twink she won me to her love.
That is thy charge. Then to the elements
That is, her love; for that is all in all.
That is, not to bestow my youngest daughter
That is, one may reach deep enough and yet
That is, to watch her, as we watch these kites
That labour on the bosom of this sphere
That like a father you will deal with him,
That love should of a sudden take such hold?
That made great Jove to humble him to her hand,
That man might ne'er be wretched for his mind.          Exit
That might have known my place. I see no sense for't,
That mortal ears might hardly endure the din?
That murd'red my love's cousin- with which grief
That my remembrance warrants. Had I not
That none shall have access unto Bianca
That now hath seiz'd them; why, they were no worse
That now is lying in Marseilles road.
That now lies foul and muddy. Not one of them
That now they are at fall, want treasure, cannot
That of his bounties taste! The five best Senses
That offer service to your lordship.
That profit us. What ho! slave! Caliban!
That seeming to be most which we indeed least are.
That shake not though they blow perpetually.
That shall be woo'd and wedded in a day.
That shall demonstrate these quick blows of Fortune's
That she is busy and she cannot come.
That she shall have, besides an argosy
That she shall still be curst in company.
That she's the choice love of Signior Gremio.
That so I may by this device at least
That stand 'twixt me and Milan, candied be they
That state or fortune fall into my keeping
That stops my way in Padua. Grumio,
That swear'st grace o'erboard, not an oath on shore?
That take it on you at the first so roundly.
That talk'd of her have talk'd amiss of her.
That teacheth tricks eleven and twenty long,
That the earth owes. I hear it now above me.
That there are unicorns; that in Arabia
That there should be small love amongst these sweet knaves,
That they devour their reason, and scarce think
That thinks with oaths to face the matter out.
That this lives in thy mind? What seest thou else
That thou attend me; thou dost here usurp
That thought is bounty's foe;
That triumph thus upon my misery!
That unsubstantial Death is amorous,
That upon Sunday is the wedding-day.
That warns my old age to a sepulchre.
That wench is stark mad or wonderful froward.
That what he speaks is all in debt; he owes
That whiles Verona by that name is known,
That with your other noble parts you'll suit
That with your strange encounter much amaz'd me,
That works him strongly.
That would not bless our Europe with your daughter,
That wrings mine eyes to't.
That yet looks on me, or would know me. Ariel,
That you are like to Sir Vincentio.
That you resolv'd t' effect.
That you shall be my wife your dowry greed on;
That you shall hate it both. Therefore take heed,
That you, his friend, are in; and sends me forth-
That's a brave god, and bears celestial liquor.
That's verily. 'Tis best we stand upon our guard,
That's your device.
That, all amaz'd, the priest let fall the book;
That, being a stranger in this city here,
That, hearing of her beauty and her wit,
That, if I then had wak'd after long sleep,
That, till the father rid his hands of her,
That, upon knowledge of my parentage,
That, were my state far worser than it is,
The King and Queen there! That they were, I wish
The King my father wreck'd.
The King's son have I landed by himself,
The Man i' th' Moon's too slow, till newborn chins
The Queen of Naples.
The beauty of his daughter; he himself
The best is past. Brother, my lord the Duke,
The bigger bulk it shows. Hence, bashful cunning!
The boy gives warning something doth approach.
The breath is gone whereof this praise is made.
The cloud-capp'd towers, the gorgeous palaces,
The clouds methought would open and show riches
The creatures that were mine, I say, or chang'd 'em,
The dashing rocks thy seasick weary bark!
The direful spectacle of the wreck, which touch'd
The door is open, sir; there lies your way;
The doors of breath, seal with a righteous kiss
The dukedom, yet unbow'd-alas, poor Milan!-
The edge of that day's celebration,
The fault's your own.
The flesh-fly blow my mouth. Hear my soul speak:
The foot above the head.
The form of death. Meantime I writ to Romeo
The foul witch Sycorax, who with age and envy
The fraughting souls within her.
The fresh springs, brine-pits, barren place and fertile.
The fresh-brook mussels, wither'd roots, and husks
The gates of Milan; and, i' th' dead of darkness,
The government I cast upon my brother
The greatest of your having lacks a half
The gunner, and his mate,
The honour of my child.
The ivy which had hid my princely trunk
The jewel in my dower, I would not wish
The knee before him, and returns in peace
The letter was not nice, but full of charge,
The maid is fair, o' th' youngest for a bride,
The manage of my state; as at that time
The mariners all under hatches stowed,
The mariners, say how thou hast dispos'd,
The master, the swabber, the boatswain, and I,
The masters of some merchant, and the merchant,
The match is made, and all is done-
The mathematics and the metaphysics,
The means that dusky Dis my daughter got,
The meat was well, if you were so contented.
The mind that I do! What a sleep were this
The ministers for th' purpose hurried thence
The mistress which I serve quickens what's dead,
The morning wears, 'tis time we were at church.
The most opportune place, the strong'st suggestion
The name of Prosper; it did bass my trespass.
The name thou ow'st not; and hast put thyself
The narrow-prying father, Minola,
The noble Paris and true Romeo dead.
The noontide sun, call'd forth the mutinous winds,
The obsequies that I for thee will keep
The one as famous for a scolding tongue
The painting is almost the natural man;
The patron of my life and liberty.
The patroness of heavenly harmony.
The pine and cedar. Graves at my command
The pine, and let thee out.
The pleasant garden of great Italy,
The pow'rs, delaying, not forgetting, have
The quaint musician, amorous Licio-
The rather for I have some sport in hand
The rest o' th' island.
The rest were ragged, old, and beggarly;
The rest will comfort, for thy counsel's sound.
The setting of thine eye and cheek proclaim
The sister to my wife, this gentlewoman,
The sky, it seems, would pour down stinking pitch,
The sole drift of my purpose doth extend
The solemn temples, the great globe itself,
The spouse of any noble gentleman.
The stomach of my sense. Would I had never
The stony entrance of this sepulchre?
The strangeness of this business; at pick'd leisure,
The sun for sorrow will not show his head.
The sun will set before I shall discharge
The surge most swoln that met him; his bold head
The time and my intents are savage-wild,
The time is unagreeable to this business.
The trumpery in my house, go bring it hither
The truth you speak doth lack some gentleness,
The union of your bed with weeds so loathly
The very heart of kindness.
The very instant that I saw you, did
The very minute bids thee ope thine ear.
The very virtue of compassion in thee,
The wager thou hast won; and I will ad
The washing of ten tides!
The white cold virgin snow upon my heart
The winds did sing it to me; and the thunder,
The wisdom of your duty, fair Bianca,
The worst is this, that at so slender warning
The wreck of all my friends, nor this man's threats
The wronged Duke of Milan, Prospero.
The yards, and bowsprit, would I flame distinctly,
The younger then is free, and not before.
The youngest daughter, whom you hearken for,
Thee here in dark to be his paramour?
Their blood is cak'd, 'tis cold, it seldom flows;
Their clearer reason. O good Gonzalo,
Their course of love, the tidings of her death;
Their eyes do offices of truth, their words
Their harness studded all with gold and pearl.
Their manners are more gentle-kind than of
Their pricks at my footfall; sometime am I
Their proper selves.
Their services to Lord Timon. His large fortune,
Their several kinds have done. My high charms work,
Then I'll commend her volubility,
Then all afire with me; the King's son, Ferdinand,
Then gave I her (so tutored by my art)
Then give me leave to have prerogative;
Then give me leave to read philosophy,
Then had not Grumio come by the worst.
Then hast thou taught Hortensio to be untoward.         Exit
Then meet and join Jove's lightning, the precursors
Then pardon him, sweet father, for my sake.
Then say if they be true. This mis-shapen knave-
Then take him up, and manage well the jest:
Then tell me, if I get your daughter's love,
Then to sea, boys, and let her go hang!
Then vail your stomachs, for it is no boot,
Then well one more may fair Bianca have;
Then, as in grateful virtue I am bound
There I couch when owls do cry.
There are yet missing of your company
There dancing up to th' chins, that the foul lake
There doth my father lie; and there this night
There is a lord will hear you play to-night;
There is no crossing him in's humour,
There is one tree, the phoenix' throne, one phoenix
There is some space.
There shall no figure at such rate be set
There shalt thou find the mariners asleep
There was no link to colour Peter's hat,
There were none fine but Adam, Ralph, and Gregory;
There will we mount, and thither walk on foot.
There's meaning in thy snores.
There's much example for't; the fellow that sits next him now,
There's no harm done.
There's something else to do; hush, and be mute,
There, take it to you, trenchers, cups, and all;
There, there, Hortensio, will you any wife?
Therefore a health to all that shot and miss'd.
Therefore my son i' th' ooze is bedded; and
Therefore they thought it good you hear a play
Therefore this order hath Baptista ta'en,
These are their tutors. Bid them use them well.
These dead men's tombs.
These fifteen years you have been in a dream;
These flies are couch'd.
These happen'd accidents; till when, be cheerful
These three have robb'd me; and this demi-devil-
They are inclin'd to do so.
They call me Katherine that do talk of me.
They cannot budge till your release. The King,
They dance? They are mad women.
They do consume the thing that feeds their fury.
They dropp'd, as by a thunder-stroke. What might,
They fell together all, as by consent;
They froze me into silence.
They have all been touch'd and found base metal, for
They have all denied him.
They have bereft; and do pronounce by me
They have chang'd eyes. Delicate Ariel,
They have left their viands behind; for we have stomachs.
They only now come but to feast thine eyes.
They say, my lords, Ira furor brevis est; but yond man is ever
They were the most needless creatures living, should we ne'er
They would not take her life. Is not this true?
They'll take suggestion as a cat laps milk;
They'll tell the clock to any business that
Thine own for ever, and I, thy Caliban,
Things of like value, differing in the owners,
Think you a little din can daunt mine ears?
This King of Naples, being an enemy
This airy charm is for, I'll break my staff,
This ancient morsel, this Sir Prudence, who
This and my food are equals; there's no odds.'
This bird you aim'd at, though you hit her not;
This cell's my court; here have I few attendants,
This dagger hath mista'en, for, lo, his house
This deity in my bosom; twenty consciences
This do, and do it kindly, gentle sirs;
This done, he took the bride about the neck,
This eye shoots forth! How big imagination
This favour will I do you for his sake;
This fellow could not drown. Now, blasphemy,
This gentleman is happily arriv'd,
This is a devil, and no monster; I will leave him; I
This is a man, old, wrinkled, faded, withered,
This is a scurvy tune too; but here's my comfort.
This is a strange repose, to be asleep
This is a very scurvy tune to sing at a man's funeral;
This is a way to kill a wife with kindness,
This is my daughter's jointure, for no more
This is no mortal business, nor no sound
This is the mouth o' th' cell; no noise, and enter.
This is thy sheath; there rest, and let me die.
This island's mine, by Sycorax my mother,
This isle with Calibans.
This lady makes him to me.
This letter he early bid me give his father,
This liberty is all that I request-
This mad-brain'd bridegroom took him such a cuff
This music crept by me upon the waters,
This night englutted! Who is not Lord Timon's?
This throne, this Fortune, and this hill, methinks,
This vault a feasting presence full of light.
This virtue and this moral discipline,
This visitation shows it.
This was my lord's best hope; now all are fled,
This way the coverlet, another way the sheets;
This were a bed but cold to sleep so soundly.
This wide-chopp'd rascal-would thou mightst lie drowning
This will I do, and this I will advise you-
This wooden slavery than to suffer
This, by the way, I let you understand:
Thither must I, and here I leave you, sir.
Those healths will make thee and thy state look ill, Timon.
Thou art a soldier, therefore seldom rich.
Thou art inclin'd to sleep; 'tis a good dullness,
Thou art not conquer'd. Beauty's ensign yet
Thou art pinch'd for't now, Sebastian. Flesh and blood,
Thou art true and honest; ingeniously I speak,
Thou call'dst me up at midnight to fetch dew
Thou canst not frown, thou canst not look askance,
Thou desperate pilot, now at once run on
Thou didst prevent me; I had peopl'd else
Thou disease of a friend and not himself!
Thou earth, thou! Speak.
Thou flea, thou nit, thou winter-cricket thou-
Thou hast a lady far more beautiful
Thou hast done well, fine Ariel!  [To FERDINAND]  Follow
Thou hast howl'd away twelve winters.
Thou hast said well; for some of you there present
Thou know'st was banish'd; for one thing she did
Thou let'st thy fortune sleep-die rather; wink'st
Thou must be married to no man but me;
Thou must restore.
Thou pardon me my wrongs. But how should Prospero
Thou shalt be master, Tranio, in my stead,
Thou shalt ere long be free.
Thou strok'st me and made much of me, wouldst give me
Thou think'st there is no more such shapes as he,
Thou wast that did preserve me! Thou didst smile,
Thou wondrous man.
Thou yard, three-quarters, half-yard, quarter, nail,
Thou'dst thank me but a little for my counsel,
Though Paris came in hope to speed alone.
Though every drop of water swear against it,
Though fools at home condemn 'em.
Though he be blunt, I know him passing wise;
Though he be merry, yet withal he's honest.
Though in some part enforced to digress,
Though little fire grows great with little wind,
Though thou didst learn, had that in't which good natures
Though with their high wrongs I am struck to th' quick,
Though you hear now- too late!- yet now's a time:
Thought is free.
Thrice give him over. Must I take th' cure upon me?
Through all the signories it was the first,
Through forth-rights and meanders! By your patience,
Thus I enforce thy rotten jaws to open,
Thus honest fools lay out their wealth on curtsies.
Thus in plain terms: your father hath consented
Thus to excuse yourself.
Thy banks with pioned and twilled brims,
Thy beauty that doth make me like thee well,
Thy brother was a furtherer in the act.
Thy drugs are quick. Thus with a kiss I die.          Falls.
Thy dukedom I resign, and do entreat
Thy father was the Duke of Milan, and
Thy head, thy sovereign; one that cares for thee,
Thy hounds shall make the welkin answer them
Thy husband in thy bosom there lies dead;
Thy husband is thy lord, thy life, thy keeper,
Thy lips are warm!
Thy nerves are in their infancy again,
Thy rankest fault-all of them; and require
Thy shape invisible retain thou still.
Thy son by this hath married. Wonder not,
Thy turfy mountains, where live nibbling sheep,
Thy virtues spoke of, and thy beauty sounded,
Till Hymen's torch be lighted; but in vain.
Till I be brought to such a silly pass!
Till I can find occasion of revenge.          Exit KATHERINA
Till I conveniently could send to Romeo.
Till I have thank'd you. When dinner's done
Till Katherine the curst have got a husband.
Till half an hour hence.
Till thou dost hear me call.
Till we can clear these ambiguities
Till you have done your business in the city.
Till you hear further from me.
Timon has been this lord's father,
Timon in this should pay more than he owes;
To Apemantus, that few things loves better
To County Paris. Then comes she to me
To act her earthy and abhorr'd commands,
To an unsettled fancy, cure thy brains,
To an untirable and continuate goodness.
To answer other business. Shrug'st thou, malice?
To answer thy best pleasure; be't to fly,
To bandy word for word and frown for frown;
To bate me a full year.
To be inclin'd my way!
To be the lord on't. No more yet of this;
To bless this twain, that they may prosperous be,
To build his fortune I will strain a little,
To buy apparel 'gainst the wedding-day.
To call upon his own, and humbly prays you
To cast thy wand'ring eyes on every stale-
To change true rules for odd inventions.
To climb his happiness, would be well express'd
To closeness and the bettering of my mind
To clust'ring filberts, and sometimes I'll get thee
To comb your noddle with a three-legg'd stool,
To come and sport. Her peacocks fly amain.
To come at first when he doth send for her,
To come to Padua. Know you not the cause?
To come to me forthwith.                      Exit BIONDELLO
To counsel deaf, but not to flattery!                   Exit
To credit his own lie-he did believe
To cross my obsequies and true love's rite?
To cry to th' sea, that roar'd to us; to sigh
To deck his fortune with his virtuous deeds.
To deck thy body with his ruffling treasure.
To do me business in the veins o' th' earth
To dote thus on such luggage? Let 't alone,
To dress thy meat myself, and bring it thee.
To enter human hearing, from Argier
To every eyeball else. Go take this shape,
To expel sickness, but prolong his hour!                Exit
To fair Bianca, so beloved of me.
To fall it on Gonzalo.
To feast and sport us at thy father's house.
To feed my innocent people.
To gather in some debts, my son Lucentio
To get her cunning schoolmasters to instruct her?
To give him annual tribute, do him homage,
To give my hand, oppos'd against my heart,
To give thee all, and in his waning age
To give you over at this first encounter,
To gratulate thy plenteous bosom. Th' Ear,
To grubs and eyeless skulls? As I discern,
To have him match'd; and, if you please to like
To have my pardon, trim it handsomely.
To hear the solemn curfew; by whose aid-
To hear the story of your life, which must
To hear thee speak of Naples. He does hear me;
To help me after? I will kiss thy lips.
To help to take her from her borrowed grave,
To him that worships thee.         [Throwing the money back]
To him thou follow'st! I will pay thy graces
To hold my stirrup nor to take my horse!
To hold your hand more close. I did endure
To house or housekeeping. Then at my farm
To imitate them: faults that are rich are fair.
To instruct her fully in those sciences,
To know the cause why music was ordain'd!
To lay upon the damn'd, which Sycorax
To learn the order of my fingering,
To lie discolour'd by this place of peace? [Enters the tomb.]
To make a bondmaid and a slave of me-
To make a dulcet and a heavenly sound;
To make a stale of me amongst these mates?
To make an earthquake! Sure it was the roar
To make cold nymphs chaste crowns; and thy broom groves,
To make her come, and know her keeper's call,
To make me die with a restorative.             [Kisses him.]
To make me slave to it; and for your sake
To make one among these wooers. If thou ask me why-
To make the dear loss, have I means much weaker
To make this contract grow; but barren hate,
To mark me for his friend; yet I protest,
To me inveterate, hearkens my brother's suit;
To me she's married, not unto my clothes.
To mine own children in good bringing-up;
To most ignoble stooping.
To my daughters; and tell them both
To my poor cell, where you shall take your rest
To name the bigger light, and how the less,
To no sight but thine and mine, invisible
To offer war where they should kneel for peace;
To old Baptista as a schoolmaster
To painful labour both by sea and land,
To pardon me yet for a night or two;
To pass assurance of a dow'r in marriage
To pay your present debts.
To press before thy father to a grave?
To propagate their states. Amongst them all
To put on better ere he go to church.
To rain a shower of commanded tears,
To rid her from this second marriage,
To run upon the sharp wind of the north,
To see a goodlier man.
To see fair Padua, nursery of arts,
To see her noble lord restor'd to health,
To see my friends in Padua; but of all
To see thy son and heir more early down.
To seek their fortunes farther than at home,
To set a gloss on faint deeds, hollow welcomes,
To show Lord Timon that mean eyes have seen
To show him what a beggar his heart is,
To smile at scapes and perils overblown.
To snare the nimble marmoset; I'll bring thee
To speak the ceremonial rites of marriage!
To still my beating mind.
To strive for that which resteth in my choice.
To suck the sweets of sweet philosophy.
To sunder his that was thine enemy?
To swim, to dive into the fire, to ride
To take my life. Two of these fellows you
To tame a shrew and charm her chattering tongue.
To teach you gamut in a briefer sort,
To th' dulling of my spirits; sit down and rest.
To th' fire i' th' blood. Be more abstemious,
To th' most of men this is a Caliban,
To th' rest, and I 'mongst lords be thought a fool.
To th' shore, that o'er his wave-worn basis bowed,
To th' winds, whose pity, sighing back again,
To the King's ship, invisible as thou art;
To the dead bodies. I will apprehend him.
To the great lord.
To the house of Signior Baptista Minola?
To the perpetual wink for aye might put
To the succession of new days this month.
To them to use your signet and your name;
To think I shall lack friends? Secure thy heart:
To think but nobly of my grandmother:
To think it was so? O, give me thy hand,
To think o' th' teen that I have turn'd you to,
To think these spirits?
To this most patient, sweet, and virtuous wife.
To this same place, to this same monument.
To those have shut him up; which failing,
To trash for over-topping, new created
To want the bridegroom when the priest attends
To watch the night in storms, the day in cold,
To weep at what I am glad of.
To what tune pleas'd his ear; that now he was
To whom 'tis instant due. Nev'r speak or think
To whom I am subdu'd, are but light to me,
To whom my father is not all unknown,
To whom they go to. What will you read to her?
To whom we all rest generally beholding.
To wish me wed to one half lunatic,
To work mine end upon their senses that
To wound thy lord, thy king, thy governor.
To your free heart, I do return those talents,
To-morrow I intend to hunt again.
Told thee no lies, made thee no mistakings, serv'd
Too little payment for so great a debt.
Too much the rein; the strongest oaths are straw
Took pains to make thee speak, taught thee each hour
Tooth'd briers, sharp furzes, pricking goss, and thorns,
Touches his friend, which craves to be rememb'red
Towards their project. Then I beat my tabor,
Tranio is chang'd into Lucentio.
Tranio, I burn, I pine, I perish, Tranio,
Translates his rivals.
Travel you far on, or are you at the farthest?
Travelling some journey, to repose him here.
Trebles thee o'er.
Trinculo?
Trinculos?
Trow you whither I am going? To Baptista Minola.
True, as you said, Timon is shrunk indeed;
Trust me, I take him for the better dog.
Tush! tush! fear boys with bugs.
Tybalt, liest thou there in thy bloody sheet?
Unapt to toll and trouble in the world,
Unbind my hands, I'll pull them off myself,
Uncase thee; take my colour'd hat and cloak.
Under my burden groan'd; which rais'd in me
Under the blossom that hangs on the bough.
Under the hatches; the master and the boatswain
Under yond yew tree lay thee all along,
Unless you were of gentler, milder mould.
Unless you will accompany me thither.
Unnatural though thou art. Their understanding
Untie the spell.  [Exit ARIEL]  How fares my gracious sir?
Until the elder sister first be wed.
Unto Bianca, fair and virtuous.
Unto a mad-brain rudesby, full of spleen,
Unto his honour has my lord's meat in him;
Unto my cell.
Unto the rigour of severest law.
Unto the wished haven of my bliss.
Unto their lords, by them accomplished;
Unto their losses twenty thousand crowns;
Unwisely, not ignobly, have I given.
Upon a sore injunction; my sweet mistress
Upon agreement from us to his liking,
Upon entreaty have a present alms;
Upon his good and gracious nature hanging,
Upon my life, I am a lord indeed,
Upon my life, Petruchio means but well,
Upon the company you overtake?
Upon this island as a spy, to win it
Upon this shore, where you were wrecked, was landed
Upon thy wicked dam, come forth!
Upon whose age we void it up again
Upon your heads-is nothing but heart's sorrow,
VENTIDIUS, one of Timon's false friends
Valance of Venice gold in needle-work;
Vincentio's son, brought up in Florence,
Vincentio, come of the Bentivolii;
Vines with clust'ring bunches growing,
Virtue and that part of philosophy
Visit his countrymen, and banquet them?
Voice, gait, and action, of a gentlewoman;
Wait you on him, I charge you, as becomes,
Wallets of flesh? or that there were such men
Warm and new kill'd.
Was Ajax, call'd so from his grandfather.
Was Duke of Milan, and his only heir
Was I then to you!
Was I to take this drunkard for a god,
Was Tybalt's doomsday, whose untimely death
Was aptly fitted and naturally perform'd.
Was dukedom large enough-of temporal royalties
Was ever conduct of. Some oracle
Was grown into a hoop? Hast thou forgot her?
Was in the wreck; and but he's something stain'd
Was it not to refresh the mind of man
Was stay'd by accident, and yesternight
Was the first man that leapt; cried 'Hell is empty,
Was to be so unwise to be so kind.
Water with berries in't, and teach me how
We all were sea-swallow'd, though some cast again,
We be affied, and such assurance ta'en
We cannot miss him: he does make our fire,
We cannot without circumstance descry.
We could at once put us in readiness,
We first put out to sea.
We have not yet been seen in any house,
We make ourselves fools to disport ourselves,
We must needs dine together. Sir, your jewel
We must prepare to meet with Caliban.
We say befits the hour.
We see the ground whereon these woes do lie,
We shall be joyful of thy company.
We split, we split! Farewell, my wife and children!
We three are married, but you two are sped.
We took this mattock and this spade from him
We were awak'd; straightway at liberty;
We will go walk a little in the orchard,
We will have rings and things, and fine array;
We will persuade him, be it possible,
We'll over-reach the greybeard, Gremio,
We'll pass the business privately and well.
We'll visit Caliban, my slave, who never
Weak masters though ye be-I have be-dimm'd
Weeping again the King my father's wreck,
Weeps when she sees me work, and says such baseness
Weigh'd between loathness and obedience at
Welcome! One mess is like to be your cheer;
Well seen in music, to instruct Bianca;
Well, bring our lady hither to our sight;
Well, would I were gently put out of office
Well, you are come to me in happy time,
Were I but where 'tis spoken.
Were but my trials of thy love, and thou
Were he the veriest antic in the world.
Were it all yours to give it in a breath,
Were most impertinent.
Were then my fellows; now they are my men.
Were wreck'd upon this shore; where I have lost-
What I command, I'll rack thee with old cramps,
What I desire to give, and much less take
What I have said- Bianca, get you in;
What I must strive to do.
What I shall die to want. But this is trifling;
What Tranio did, myself enforc'd him to;
What best is boded me to mischief! I,
What charitable men afford to beggars.
What cursed foot wanders this way to-night
What dogs are these? Where is the rascal cook?
What dowry shall I have with her to wife?
What duty they do owe their lords and husbands.
What foul play had we that we came from thence?
What further woe conspires against mine age?
What great hope have you! No hope that way is
What heart, head, sword, force, means, but is Lord Timon's?
What is she but a foul contending rebel
What is the time o' th' day?
What is your name?
What is't thou canst demand?
What levity's in youth.
What mean these masterless and gory swords
What news with you, sir?
What said my man when my betossed soul
What say you to a piece of beef and mustard?
What says Lucentio to this shame of ours?
What shall I do? Say what. What shall I do?
What shall be done? He will not hear till feel.
What shall defend the interim? And at length
What stars do spangle heaven with such beauty
What things are these, my lord Antonio?
What think you, if he were convey'd to bed,
What thou shouldst be; th' occasion speaks thee; and
What torch is yond that vainly lends his light
What torment I did find thee in; thy groans
What wert thou, if the King of Naples heard thee?
What will be said? What mockery will it be
What you bestow, in him I'll counterpoise,
What you will have it nam'd, even that it is,
What! shall I be appointed hours, as though, belike,
What's dearest to the world! Full many a lady
What's here? A cup, clos'd in my true love's hand?
What's this? A sleeve? 'Tis like a demi-cannon.
What's this? Mutton?
What, Ariel! my industrious servant, Ariel!
What, did he marry me to famish me?
What, do you grumble? I'll be with you straight.
What, hast thou din'd? The tailor stays thy leisure,
What, have I chok'd you with an argosy?
What, have I pinch'd you, Signior Gremio?
What, is the jay more precious than the lark
What, no attendance? no regard? no duty?
What, not a word? Nay, then thou lov'st it not,
What, up and down, carv'd like an appletart?
What, with a torch? Muffle me, night, awhile.     [Retires.]
Whate'er thou hearest or seest, stand all aloof
Whatever fortune stays him from his word.
When Biondello comes, he waits on thee;
When I am alone, why, then I am Tranio;
When I arriv'd and heard thee, that made gape
When I have deck'd the sea with drops full salt,
When I shall ask the banns, and when be married.
When I shall think or Phoebus' steeds are founder'd
When I should bid good-morrow to my bride
When all our offices have been oppress'd
When all's spent, he'd be cross'd then, an he could.
When did she cross thee with a bitter word?
When every feather sticks in his own wing,
When first I rais'd the tempest. Say, my spirit,
When he comes back; you demi-puppets that
When he is earth'd, hath here almost persuaded-
When he is turn'd to poison?
When he looks out in an ungrateful shape!-
When it is bak'd with frost.
When my indisposition put you back,
When no man was his own.
When they are bound to serve, love, and obey.
When they do homage to this simple peasant.
When thou art Timon's dog, and these knaves honest.
When with his knees he kiss'd the Cretan strand.
When you are by at night. I do beseech you,
When you are cloudy.
When you should bring the plaster.
When your false masters eat of my lord's meat?
When, for some trifling present, you have bid me
When, with a most impatient devilish spirit,
Whence are you, sir? What may I call your name?
Where I have hope to see the nuptial
Where are my slippers? Shall I have some water?
Where be these enemies? Capulet, Montage,
Where he himself was lost; Prospero his dukedom
Where is Lucentio?
Where is Nathaniel, Gregory, Philip?
Where is my wife?
Where is the County's page that rais'd the watch?
Where is the foolish knave I sent before?
Where man doth not inhabit-you 'mongst men
Where my son lies. When did you lose your daughter?
Where she, at least, is banish'd from your eye,
Where small experience grows. But in a few,
Where the bee sucks, there suck I;
Where the quick freshes are.
Where thou mayst knock a nail into his head.
Where thou thyself dost air-the Queen o' th' sky,
Where we were lodgers at the Pegasus.
Where we, in all her trim, freshly beheld
Where's Romeo's man? What can he say in this?
Where's my spaniel Troilus? Sirrah, get you hence,
Where's the cook? Is supper ready, the house trimm'd, rushes
Where, but even now, with strange and several noises
Wherefore this ghastly looking?
Wherefore you are not paid.
Wherein the acorn cradled. Follow.
Wherein your cunning can assist me much.
Wherein your lady and your humble wife
Whereof I know she is not ignorant.
Whereof the ewe not bites; and you whose pastime
Whereof what's past is prologue, what to come
Whether you will or no.
Which I could fancy more than any other.
Which I dispers'd, they all have met again,
Which I do last pronounce, is, O you wonder!
Which I have bettered rather than decreas'd.
Which all men speak with him.
Which any print of goodness wilt not take,
Which aptly sings the good.
Which at more leisure I will so excuse
Which bars a thousand harms and lengthens life.
Which brought us hither.
Which but three glasses since we gave out split-
Which end o' th' beam should bow. We have lost your son,
Which ent'red their frail shins. At last I left them
Which first was mine own king; and here you sty me
Which flashes now a phoenix. Get you gone.
Which he shall have. I'll pay the debt, and free him.
Which here, in this most desolate isle, else falls
Which is from my remembrance. Please you, farther.
Which is not owed to you!
Which is not yet perform'd me.
Which labour'd after him to the mountain's top
Which makes it five and twenty. Still in motion
Which manifold record not matches? See,
Which my lord paid for be of any power
Which never were, nor no man ever saw.
Which now came from him.
Which now's upon 's; without the which this story
Which once perform'd, let all the world say no,
Which otherwise would grow into extremes.             Exeunt
Which runs himself, and catches for his master.
Which seem to move and wanton with her breath
Which shall be shortly, single I'll resolve you,
Which since have steaded much; so, of his gentleness,
Which spongy April at thy hest betrims,
Which thou forget'st. This damn'd witch Sycorax,
Which thou heard'st cry, which thou saw'st sink.
Which thou tak'st from me. When thou cam'st first,
Which throes thee much to yield.
Which to you shall seem probable, of every
Which was not half so beautiful and kind;
Which was thrust forth of Milan; who most strangely
Which was, that he, in lieu o' th' premises,
Which way thou travellest- if along with us,
Which with sweet water nightly I will dew;
Which, in a napkin being close convey'd,
Which, when he has a house, he'll deck withal.
While I make way from hence to save my life.
While I sit lazy by.
While I with self-same kindness welcome thine.
While counterfeit supposes blear'd thine eyne.
While he did bear my countenance in the town;
While she did call me rascal fiddler
While you here do snoring lie,
Whiles thou art waking.
Whiles thus you mock it! how, in stripping it,
Whilst thou liest warm at home, secure and safe;
Whither away, or where is thy abode?
Who am myself attach'd with weariness
Who are surpris'd withal; but my rejoicing
Who bates mine honour shall not know my coin.           Exit
Who cannot keep his wealth must keep his house.         Exit
Who dies that bears not one spurn to their graves
Who for this seven years hath esteemed him
Who had no doubt some noble creature in her,
Who hath cause to wet the grief on't.
Who having into truth, by telling of it,
Who here hath lain this two days buried.
Who is so far from Italy removed
Who lives that's not depraved or depraves?
Who mak'st a show but dar'st not strike, thy conscience
Who shall be of as little memory
Who though they are of monstrous shape yet, note,
Who was so firm, so constant, that this coil
Who will of thy arrival be full joyous.
Who with mine eyes, never since at ebb, beheld
Who woo'd in haste and means to wed at leisure.
Who would believe that there were mountaineers,
Who's the next heir of Naples?
Who, with a charm join'd to their suff'red labour,
Who, with thy saffron wings, upon my flow'rs
Whom Fortune with her ivory hand wafts to her;
Whom I left cooling of the air with sighs
Whom I with this obedient steel, three inches of it,
Whom he redeem'd from prison. All these
Whom now I keep in service. Thou best know'st
Whom stripes may move, not kindness! I have us'd thee,
Whom this beneath world doth embrace and hug
Whom thou lov'st best. See thou dissemble not.
Whom thus we stray to find, and the sea mocks
Whom would to God I had well knock'd at first,
Whose enmity he flung aside, and breasted
Whose eyes are on this sovereign lady fix'd
Whose heads stood in their breasts? which now we find
Whose inward pinches therefore are most strong-
Whose present grace to present slaves and servants
Whose shadow the dismissed bachelor loves,
Whose sudden sight hath thrall'd my wounded eye.
Whose vows are that no bed-rite shall be paid
Whose wat'ry arch and messenger am I,
Why I descend into this bed of death
Why are our bodies soft and weak and smooth,
Why art thou yet so fair? Shall I believe
Why does the world report that Kate doth limp?
Why dost thou weep? Canst thou the conscience lack
Why dost thou wrong her that did ne'er wrong thee?
Why should it thrive and turn to nutriment
Why then preferr'd you not your sums and bills
Why, 'tis a cockle or a walnut-shell,
Why, give him gold enough and marry him to a puppet or an
Why, this is flat knavery to take upon you another man's name.
Why, this's a heavy chance 'twixt him and you,
Why, what a devil's name, tailor, call'st thou this?
Why, when, I say? Nay, good sweet Kate, be merry.
Will I apply that treats of happiness
Will I set up my everlasting rest
Will be here with mop and mow.
Will cry it o'er again; it is a hint
Will deign to sip or touch one drop of it.
Will ever after droop. Here cease more questions;
Will guard your person while you take your rest,
Will hum about mine ears; and sometimes voices,
Will make me sleep again; and then, in dreaming,
Will money buy'em?
Will not so graceless be to be ingrate.
Will not, nor cannot, use such vigilance
Will serve the turn.
Will shortly fill the reasonable shore
Will undertake to woo curst Katherine;
Will we return unto thy father's house
Will we take throughly.
Will you give thanks, sweet Kate, or else shall I?
Will't please you taste of what is here?
Wilt thou destroy him then?
Wilt thou have music? Hark! Apollo plays,            [Music]
Wincot, if she know me not; if she say I am not fourteen pence on
With aged cramps, and more pinch-spotted make them
With all prerogative. Hence his ambition growing-
With all the honours on my brother. Whereon,
With amber bracelets, beads, and all this knav'ry.
With amplest entertainment. My free drift
With certain half-caps and cold-moving nods,
With clamorous demands of date-broke bonds
With colours fairer painted their foul ends.
With drunken spilth of wine, when every room
With dry convulsions, shorten up their sinews
With eyes wide open; standing, speaking, moving,
With foreheads villainous low.
With full and holy rite be minist'red,
With gentle conference, soft and affable.
With gold on lasting pillars: in one voyage
With grief, that's beauty's canker, thou mightst call him
With hair up-staring-then like reeds, not hair-
With his good will and thy good company,
With his own bolt; the strong-bas'd promontory
With instruments upon them fit to open
With its sweet air; thence I have follow'd it,
With much more ease; for my good will is to it,
With oaths kept waking, and with brawling fed;
With one consent to have her so bestow'd;
With one man beckon'd from the rest below,
With open outcry, toward our monument.
With poisonous spite and envy.
With raven's feather from unwholesome fen
With riotous feeders, when our vaults have wept
With ruffs and cuffs and farthingales and things,
With scarfs and fans and double change of brav'ry.
With silken coats and caps, and golden rings,
With slight denial, nor then silenc'd when
With so full soul, but some defect in her
With soft low tongue and lowly courtesy,
With such austerity as longeth to a father.
With such discourse as, I not doubt, shall make it
With such love as 'tis now, the murkiest den,
With that which, but by being so retir'd,
With those five talents. That had, give't these fellows
With those that I saw suffer! A brave vessel,
With wealth enough, and young and beauteous;
With words that made them known. But thy vile race,
With worms that are thy chambermaids. O, here
With your sedg'd crowns and ever harmless looks,
Within rich Pisa's walls as any one
Within there! Flaminius! Servilius!
Within this three hours will fair Juliet wake.
Within two days for this.
Within your house, to make mine eye the witness
Without a parallel, those being all my study-
Without or grudge or grumblings. Thou didst promise
Without sweat or endeavour. Treason, felony,
Work not so hard; I would the lightning had
Wort'hily purchas'd, take my daughter. But
Worthy Sebastian? O, what might! No more!
Would 'twere done!                        [They sit and mark]
Would I admit; no name of magistrate;
Would I not have; but nature should bring forth,
Would be as heavy to me as odious, but
Would become tender.
Would cry to a sailor 'Go hang!'
Would even infect my mouth, I do forgive
Would here have kill'd your king, I do forgive thee,
Would not infect his reason?
Would not the beggar then forget himself?
Would one day stamp upon me. 'T has been done:
Would say your head and butt were head and horn.
Would, with themselves, shut up my thoughts; I find
Wound the loud winds, or with bemock'd-at stabs
Wrapp'd in sweet clothes, rings put upon his fingers,
Yea, 'gainst th' authority of manners, pray'd you
Yea, all my raiment, to my petticoat;
Yea, all which it inherit, shall dissolve,
Yea, and perhaps with more successful words
Yea, and to marry her, if her dowry please.
Yea, his dread trident shake.
Yea, noise? Then I'll be brief. O happy dagger!
Yet I have fac'd it with a card of ten.
Yet a tailor might scratch her where'er she did itch.
Yet again! What do you here? Shall we give o'er, and
Yet extreme gusts will blow out fire and all.
Yet if thy thoughts, Bianca, be so humble
Yet most suspected, as the time and place
Yet never means to wed where he hath woo'd.
Yet not so deeply as to thee belongs,
Yet oftentimes lie goes but mean-apparell'd.
Yet put it out, for I would not be seen.
Yet with my nobler reason 'gainst my fury
Yet would you say ye were beaten out of door;
Yet, as they are, here are they come to meet you.
Yields us kind answer.
You and your ways; whose wraths to guard you from-
You are like to have a thin and slender pittance.
You are still crossing it. Sirs, let 't alone;
You are welcome all.
You bate too much of your own merits.
You break into some merry passion
You did supplant your brother Prospero.
You fools! I and my fellows
You have added worth unto't and lustre,
You have but jested with me all this while.
You have not sought her help, of whose soft grace
You have show'd a tender fatherly regard
You heedless joltheads and unmanner'd slaves!
You knew my father well, and in him me,
You know there wants no junkets at the feast.
You know to-morrow is the wedding-day.
You logger-headed and unpolish'd grooms!
You may be jogging whiles your boots are green;
You may deny me; but I'll be your servant,
You mend the jewel by the wearing it.
You might have heard it else proclaim'd about.
You more invest it! Ebbing men indeed,
You must consider that a prodigal course
You must needs dine with me. Go not you hence
You must, as we do, gratify this gentleman,
You said our work should cease.
You see how all conditions, how all minds-
You shall go see your pupils presently.
You shall have me assisting you in all.
You shall not make me welcome.
You sun-burnt sicklemen, of August weary,
You taught me but while-ere?
You that durst swear that your Mistress Blanca
You understand me, sir. So shall you stay
You understand me- over and beside
You understand me?
You use your manners discreetly in all kind of companies.
You were a moveable.
You whoreson villain! will you let it fall?    [Strikes him]
You will have Gremio to keep you fair.
You would entreat me rather go than stay.
You, brother mine, that entertain'd ambition,
You, to remove that siege of grief from her,
Young Ferdinand, whom they suppose is drown'd,
Young scamels from the rock. Wilt thou go with me?
Your ancient, trusty, pleasant servant Grumio.
Your betters have endur'd me say my mind,
Your compensation makes amends; for
Your eld'st acquaintance cannot be three hours;
Your fellow Tranio here, to save my life,
Your honourable letter he desires
Your importunacy cease till after dinner,
Your lecture shall have leisure for as much.
Your lord sends now for money.
Your lordship to accept.
Your master's confidence was above mine,
Your plainness and your shortness please me well.
Your royal fleet far off.  [Aside to ARIEL]  My Ariel,
Your ships are stay'd at Venice; and the Duke,
Your son shall have my daughter with consent.
Your swords are now too massy for your strengths
[A confused noise within: Mercy on us!
[Aside to SEBASTIAN and ANTONIO]  But you, my brace of
[Aside]  And watch withal; for, but I be deceiv'd,
[Aside]  How fiery and forward our pedant is!
[Aside]  I must obey. His art is of such pow'r,
[Aside]  My land amounts not to so much in all.-
[Aside]  They are both in either's pow'rs; but this swift
[Sings]  It was the friar of orders grey,
[Sings]  Where is the life that late I led?
[To ARIEL]  Hark what thou else shalt do me.
[To FLAVIUS] Come hither. Pray you,
[To LUCENTIO]  'Twas I won the wager, though you hit the white;
[To TRANIO]  But, gentle sir, methinks you walk like a stranger.
[To To the PEDANT] Sir, this is the gentleman I told you of;
[To VINCENTIO]  Good-morrow, gentle mistress; where away?-
a doit.
a duck, I'll be sworn.
a good moon-calf.
a good time, when I might ha' shown myself honourable! How
a natural!
a poor drunkard!
abominable monster!
ad imprimendum solum; to th' church take the priest, clerk, and
advice, it toucheth us both- that we may yet again have access to
affect company nor is he fit for't indeed.
after do our work.
aglet-baby, or an old trot with ne'er a tooth in her head, though
alighted and come to visit you.
alive? A fish: he smells like a fish; a very ancient and
am I at the least. But wilt thou make a fire, or shall I complain
an acre of barren ground-long heath, brown furze, any
and a copatain hat! O, I am undone! I am undone! While I play the
and a woman's crupper of velure, which hath two letters for her
and all things neat?
and away with the rest.
and bed her, and rid the house of her! Come on.
and by it will strike.
and chapeless; with two broken points; his horse hipp'd, with an
and on. By this light, thou shalt be my lieutenant,
and so shall Trinculo.
and such-like trifles, nothing comparing to his; yet, had he
and that soundly.
and their garters of an indifferent knit; let them curtsy with
and thyself shall be viceroys. Dost thou like the plot,
and vain-glories?
and warm thee.
and will kiss thy foot. I prithee be my god.
angry. Go, let him have a table by himself; for he does neither
another's fortunes! O, joy's e'en made away ere't can be born!
any more of it?
apples. But, come; since this bar in law makes us friends, it
ardent zeal would set whole realms on fire.
are born to do benefits; and what better or properer can we call
are done and past, and his estate shrinks from him.
are they. Thou art very Trinculo indeed! How cam'st thou
are undone and brought to nothing.
are. Would we could see you at Corinth!
art thou living, Stephano? O Stephano, two Neapolitans
artificial one. He is very often like a knight; and, generally,
as I to-day? Wilt thou tell a monstrous lie, being but
as LUCENTIO, with his boy, BIONDELLO, bearing a lute and books
as e'er I look'd on.
as fresh as when we were at Tunis at the marriage of
as she went to the garden for parsley to stuff a rabbit; and so
as to use mine own words to him?
asham'd on't. Denied that honourable man! There was very little
assistance therein.
at all hours.
at nothing.
at the door to speak with him.
away thyself in paper shortly. What needs these feasts, pomps,
away where my hogshead of wine is, or I'll turn you out
be his dole! He that runs fastest gets the ring. How say you,
be loath to fall into my dreams again. I will therefore tarry in
be not a lawful cause for me to leave his service- look you, sir:
be provided to show them entertainment.
be very rich, any man is so very a fool to be married to hell?
because her horse stumbled, how she waded through the dirt to
before the gods, I am not able to do- the more beast, I say! I
before, how I cried, how the horses ran away, how her bridle was
beginning.
begins to crow?
behalf I come to entreat your honour to supply;  who, having
behalf; and thus far I confirm you. O you gods, think I, what
beholding to you than any, freely give unto you this young
being drown'd, we will inherit here. Here, bear my bottle.
being restrained to keep him from stumbling, hath been often
belong'd to't, and yet was denied.
bemoil'd, how he left her with the horse upon her, how he beat me
berries;
best way is to creep under his gaberdine; there is no
beyond credit-
born a bastard, and thou't die a bawd.
bountiful good lord and master?
bring me to the party?
bully-monster, coragio!
burst, and now repaired with knots; one girth six times piec'd,
burst, how I lost my crupper- with many things of worthy memory,
busines
but a filthy piece of work.
by my coming. Every man has his fault, and honesty is his. I ha'
by this bottle, which I made of the bark of a tree, with
by this hand, I will supplant some of your teeth.
by't; and I cannot think but, in the end, the villainies of man
canst use the time well, if the time use thee well. Good parts in
cardmaker, by transmutation a bear-herd, and now by present
case is miserable.                                    Exeunt
charge thee
chronicles: we came in with Richard Conqueror. Therefore, paucas
come back to my master's as soon as I can.
come forth?
come with your appendix.
comes a-wooing- 'Priami' is my man Tranio- 'regia' bearing my
comes amiss, so money comes withal.
comfort 'tis to have so many like brothers commanding one
coming after to warm them. Now were not I a little pot and soon
company? How dost thou, Apemantus?
concern you near.
condition: to be whipp'd at the high cross every morning.
considering the weather, a taller man than I will take cold.
constant.
controversy.                              [They stand aside]
counsellor; if you can command these elements to
counterfeit assurance. Take your assurance of her, cum privilegio
cramp.
daughter without asking my good will?
day of a bay courser I rode on. 'Tis yours because you lik'd it.
day, freedom!
dead moon-calf's gaberdine for fear of the storm. And
deliver'd.
desirous of admittance.
despite of the flesh and the blood.
discretion so weakly. Will you laugh me asleep, for I am
disfigure her with it that she shall have no more eyes to see
draught, is the readiest man to kill him. 'T has been proved. If
drinking do. A murrain on your monster, and the devil
drown'd; and these are devils. O, defend me!
drown? Have you a mind to sink?
drunk wine afore, it will go near to remove his fit. If
dry death.                                            Exeunt
ears for my labour.
earth?
endure her loud alarums, why, man, there be good fellows in the
ever man so weary? I am sent before to make a fire, and they are
express the like kindness, myself, that have been more kindly
eyes are almost set in thy head.
fairy, has done little better than play'd the Jack with us.
farewell!
father of a deceitful son.
father.
faults, I drink to you.
faults, and money enough.
feign'd him a worthy fellow.
fish, but an islander, that hath lately suffered by
fish-like smell; kind of not-of-the-newest Poor-John. A
flatter thee. O you gods, what a number of men eats Timon, and he
footboy or a gentleman's lackey.
for I have no more doublets than backs, no more stockings than
for a husband, and then have to't afresh. Sweet Bianca! Happy man
for a servant to use his master so; being, perhaps, for aught I
for mine is money.
for't. Wit shall not go unrewarded while I am king of
forth more islands.
foul ways! Was ever man so beaten? Was ever man so ray'd? Was
free love, hath presented to you four milk-white horses, trapp'd
friend Trinculo.
friend; his backward voice is to utter foul speeches and
friends.
friendship without security. Here's three solidares for thee.
frippery. O King Stephano!
furnish it anon with new contents. Swear.
further off.
give me conserves of beef. Ne'er ask me what raiment I'll wear,
give regard to you. Farewell; and come with better music.
give thee thy due, and one that knows what belongs to reason, and
glosses, being rather new-dy'd, than stain'd with salt
go to Saint Luke's to bid the priest be ready to come against you
good friend Petruchio! How do you all at Verona?
good husband at home, my son and my servant spend all at the
good shipping! But who is here? Mine old master, Vicentio! Now we
goose.
great and instant occasion to use fifty talents, hath sent to
greatest afflictions, say, that I cannot pleasure such an
groves;
had but this fish painted, not a holiday fool there but
half fish and half a monster?
half-cheek'd bit, and a head-stall of sheep's leather which,
hand a rope more. Use your authority; if you cannot, give
hands.
hang'd. This is to Lord Timon; this to Alcibiades. Go; thou wast
hap.-Cheerly, good hearts!-Out of our way, I say.
has he sent now?
has sent your honour two brace of greyhounds.
hast thou there under thy cloak, pretty Flaminius?
have found time to use 'em toward a supply of money. Let the
have no long spoon.
have not scap'd drowning to be afeard now of your four
have that gown.
have use for 'em; and would most resemble sweet instruments hung
he bid me knock him and rap him soundly, sir. Well, was it fit
he hath no drowning mark upon him; his complexion is
he's ever sending. How shall I thank him, think'st thou? And what
headed monster. A most scurvy monster! I could find in
hearing too? A pox o' your bottle! This can sack and
hearken once again to the suit I made to thee?
here's a goodly sight.
here's none will hold you. There! Love is not so great,
hide my head. Yond same cloud cannot choose but fall by
him but a little, he will throw a figure in her face, and so
him too.
him, I charge you, in the Duke's name. O, my son, my son! Tell
him, I will help his ague. Come-Amen! I will pour some
him, or else we are all undone.
his honour.- My honour'd lord!
his service.
hither, spirit;
home faster.
home, therefore leave us.
honour show'd in't. For my own part, I must needs confess I have
honour will conceive the fairest of me, because I have no power
honourable gentleman.
honourable gentleman. Good Servilius, will you befriend me so far
honourable, complete, freehearted gentleman of Athens, thy very
horse-tail till they kiss their hands. Are they all ready?
hot, my very lips might freeze to my teeth, my tongue to the roof
house. Many a time and often I ha' din'd with him and told him
i' th' Moon, when time was.
in all shapes that man goes up and down in from fourscore to
in it five weeks without changing.
in silver.
in the sea, hold, notwithstanding, their freshness and
in thy other mouth.
in your cabin for the mischance of the hour, if it so
in? Widow Dido!
incharitable dog!
is one, and I am her fool. When men come to borrow of your
island.
it should thunder as it did before, I know not where to
jerkin, you are like to lose your hair, and prove a bald
jerkin.
jerkin; a pair of old breeches thrice turn'd; a pair of boots
keep him tame, and get to Naples with him, he's a
keep your cabins; you do assist the storm.
knave; which notwithstanding, thou shalt be no less esteemed.
knew not what he did when he made man politic- he cross'd himself
knock me soundly'? And come you now with 'knocking at the gate'?
know you not- 'hic est Sigeia tellus' I trust you not- 'Hic
labour
labour and effect one thing specially.
labour. He that loves to be flattered is worthy o' th' flatterer.
laid, and everything in order?
last that, I fear me, will never out of my bones. I
leather.
legs, nor no more shoes than feet- nay, sometime more feet than
legs; for it hath been said: As proper a man as ever
let loose my opinion; hold it no longer: this is no
letters; I know not which is which.
lift the moon out of her sphere, if she would continue
like 'em; I could wish my best friend at such a feast.
likeness; if thou beest a devil, take't as thou list.
little advantage. If he be not born to be hang'd, our
little part and undo a great deal of honour! Servilius, now
lock thy heaven from thee.
long as I live.
looks like a foul bombard that would shed his liquor. If
lord! a noble gentleman 'tis, if he would not keep so good a
lord?
lordship!
maintain it.
make a man; any strange beast there makes a man; when
make the rope of his destiny our cable, for our own doth
man's blood; and all the madness is, he cheers them up too.
man, and his fins like arms! Warm, o' my troth! I do now
master cut out the gown; but I did not bid him cut it to pieces.
master's father, Vincentio?
master, and my new mistress, and myself, fellow Curtis.
masters, they approach sadly and go away merry; but they enter my
may you, sir; and so adieu, sir. My master hath appointed me to
me to thy honourable virtuous lord, my very exquisite friend.
me, thou villain, where is my son, Lucentio?
me.
men! Bawds between gold and want!
merchant?
merry withal?
meteyard, and spare not me.
mine own hands, since I was cast ashore.
minister occasion to these gentlemen, who are of such
mistook him and sent to me, I should ne'er have denied his
mistress are almost frozen to death.
mistress show'd me thee, and thy dog and thy bush.
mistress' house merrily and go away sadly. The reason of this?
mistress-
mistress.
monster indeed, if they were set in his tail.
monster!
monster! When's god's asleep he'll rob his bottle.
monster, a very monster in apparel, and not like a Christian
monster, in good sooth!
monster, or my standard.
more of you to myself than you can with modesty speak in your own
more!
mouth; this will shake your shaking, I can tell you, and
my friends else? Why have you that charitable title from
my heart to beat him-
my mercy out o' doors, and make a stock-fish of thee.
my subject, and he shall not suffer indignity.
name fairly set down in studs, and here and there piec'd with
ne'er drank sack in my life; and if you give me any conserves,
ne'er left man i' th' mire.
nearer, honest Flaminius. Thy lord's a bountiful gentleman; but
neck. A fire, good Curtis.
need we have any friends if we should ne'er have need of 'em?
no stronger than a nutshell, and as leaky as an unstanched
nose is in great indignation.
nostrils.
not drown'd. Is the storm overblown? I hid me under the
not say he lies?
now. Commend me bountifully to his good lordship, and I hope his
occasion so many talents.
of my kingdom. Go to, carry this.
of my mouth, my heart in my belly, ere I should come by a fire to
of the storm be past.
off.
office?
often wish'd myself poorer, that I might come nearer to you. We
old motley saddle and stirrups of no kindred; besides, possess'd
on the other, gart'red with a red and blue list; an old hat, and
on thee to our mistress, whose hand- she being now at hand- thou
on't; and come again to supper to him of purpose to have him
one.
only son, and heir to the lands of me, Signior Vicentio.
other in music and mathematics. His name is Cambio. Pray accept
other shelter hereabout. Misery acquaints a man with
our fair mistress, and be happy rivals in Bianca's love- to
our own than the riches of our friends? O, what a precious
our return.
our zeals, we should think ourselves for ever perfect.
out at the window.
out.
out; our cake's dough on both sides. Farewell; yet, for the love
pack-thread.
pailfuls. What have we here? a man or a fish? dead or
pallabris; let the world slide. Sessa!
parts bread with him, pledges the breath of him in a divided
pass of pate; there's another garmet for't.
past.
payment-
perfect gallows. Stand fast, good Fate, to his hanging;
picture of Nobody.
plague upon this howling! They are louder than the
plain: 'Sirrah knock me here, rap me here, knock me well, and
pluck him off me, how he swore, how she pray'd that never pray'd
pocket, and give it his son for an apple.
port- 'celsa senis' that we might beguile the old pantaloon.
present for any emperor that ever trod on neat's
profession a tinker? Ask Marian Hacket, the fat ale-wife of
profitably!
prove upon thee, though thy little finger be armed in a thimble.
provided that I shall have much help from you. How had you been
put tricks upon 's with savages and men of Ind? Ha! I
rail in his rope-tricks. I'll tell you what, sir: an she stand
reason. Come on, Trinculo, let us sing.              [Sings]
received some small kindnesses from him, as money, plate, jewels,
relief, if it be but for that. If I can recover him, and
request be fifty talents.
requesting your lordship to supply his instant use with so many
rest; let their heads be sleekly comb'd, their blue coats brush'd
roarers for the name of king? To cabin! silence! Trouble
rusty sword ta'en out of the town armoury, with a broken hilt,
sack. For my part, the sea cannot drown me; I swam, ere
said a gown.
saw you before in all my life.
say there's but five upon this isle: we are three of
scap'd!
scholar  [Presenting LUCENTIO]  that hath been long studying at
score knaves or so. Why, that's nothing; and he begin once, he'll
search
see that he be forthcoming.
see, two and thirty, a pip out?
sees 'em not! It grieves me to see so many dip their meat in one
sensible and nimble lungs that they always use to laugh
shall be said so again, while Stephano breathes at
shall be so far forth friendly maintain'd till by helping
shall have my music for nothing.
shall not fear fly-blowing.
shalt be free.
shalt soon feel, to thy cold comfort, for being slow in thy hot
she has as many diseases as two and fifty horses. Why, nothing
shoes, or such shoes as my toes look through the overleather.
should he learn our language? I will give him some
should knock you here, sir?
should.
shoulder to my heel with no greater a run but my head and my
shouldst have heard how her horse fell and she under her horse;
shouldst know it.
silence, and work the peace of the present, we will not
sing i' th' wind. Yond same black cloud, yond huge one,
sir. Fill me some wine. [Exit SERVANT] And how does that
sir;
skirts of it and beat me to death with a bottom of brown bread; I
sleeves should be cut out, and sew'd up again; and that I'll
so out of hope.
some sufficient honest witnesses.
somebody in this city under my countenance.
sometime like a philosopher, with two stones moe than's
sometime the philosopher.
sorcerer, that by his cunning hath cheated me of the
speak to me; for I am Trinculo-be not afeard-thy good
spend less; and yet he would embrace no counsel, take no warning
spirit. Sometime 't appears like a lord; sometime like a lawyer;
sprites.
stand by awhile.
stark spoil'd with the staggers, begnawn with the bots, sway'd in
steterat Priami' take heed he hear us not- 'regia' presume not-
strange bed-fellows. I will here shroud till the dregs
strange fish! Were I in England now, as once I was, and
strangers to him. But I can tell you one thing, my lord, and
strew'd, cobwebs swept, the serving-men in their new fustian,
subject, for the liquor is not earthly.
subject.
take a displeasure against you, look you-
take care for himself; for all is but fortune. Coragio,
take your fingers!
taking, I doubt me.
tale.
talents.
talents; nay, urg'd extremely for't, and showed what necessity
talking. Trinculo, the King and all our company else
temperance.
th' seaside, where my wine is hid. How now, moon-calf!
thanks you have liv'd so long, and make yourself ready
that have been candle-cases, one buckled, another lac'd; an old
that office to signify their pleasures.
that soundly; you cannot tell who's your friend. Open
that which will give language to you, cat. Open your
that, monster, but an infinite loss.
that. She was of Carthage, not of Tunis.
thaw me. But I with blowing the fire shall warm myself; for,
the back and shoulder-shotten, near-legg'd before, and with a
the by the lesser legs; if any be Trinculo's legs, these
the faster. Thou giv'st so long, Timon, I fear me thou wilt give
the gaol.
the horse- with a linen stock on one leg and a kersey boot-hose
the humour of forty fancies prick'd in't for a feather; a
the lampass, infected with the fashions, full of windgalls, sped
the meaning or moral of his signs and tokens.
the monster one word further and, by this hand, I'll turn
the nature of our quarrel yet never brook'd parle, know now, upon
the score for sheer ale, score me up for the lying'st knave in
the world slip;-we shall ne'er be younger.
thee none.
thee silent.
thee. [To SERVANT] Get you gone, sirrah. [Exit SERVANT] Draw
their left legs, and not presume to touch a hair of my mastcr's
their white stockings, and every officer his wedding-garment on?
them; if th' other two be brain'd like us, the state
then thou mightst kill 'em, and bid me to 'em.
therefore fire. Do thy duty, and have thy duty, for my master and
they will not give a doit to relieve a lame beggar, they
thief.
thing. The wills above be done, but I would fain die
think is his name?
thirteen, this spirit walks in.
this business; I dare swear this is the right Vincentio.
this country. 'Steal by line and level' is an excellent
this hits right; I dreamt of a silver basin and ewer to-night-
this my jerkin? Now is the jerkin under the line; now,
this taborer; he lays it on.
this, give me the lie another time.
thou art wise, and thou know'st well enough, although thou com'st
thou canst swim like a duck, thou art made like a
thou shouldst have heard in how miry a place, how she was
thoughts.
thousands, did not you chiefly belong to my heart? I have told
thunderbolt.  [Thunder]  Alas, the storm is come again! My
thus much for greeting. Now, my spruce companions, is all ready,
thus to get your love- 'Hic steterat' and that Lucentio that
thy grave.
thy master's use!
to be kind. And tell him this from me: I count it one of my
to be the siege of this moon-calf? Can he vent
to detract. If all the wine in my bottle will recover
to justle a constable. Why, thou debosh'd fish, thou,
to me, that this is no time to lend money, especially upon bare
to sea again; lay her off.
to teach her that wherein she delights, I will wish him to her
to their queen.
to thy friend.
told him on't, but I could ne'er get him from't.
too much for him; he shall pay for him that hath him,
totters.
truer than you purpos'd.
university.
unluckily it happ'ned that I should purchase the day before for a
up ever since he was three years old, and his name is Tranio.
up in cases, that keep their sounds to themselves. Why, I have
upon a butt of sack, which the sailors heaved o'erboard-
upon us!
us not.
very heavy?
villain!
was but to knock at your car and beseech list'ning. Now I begin:
was sending to use Lord Timon myself, these gentlemen can
was there ever man a coward that hath drunk so much sack
water, not a drop before; therefore bear up, and board
water.
water.
we are less afraid to be drown'd than thou art.
we put them on first in Afric, at the marriage of the
we run ourselves aground; bestir, bestir.               Exit
wear pearl and gold? I thank my good father, I am able to
weather at all, and another storm brewing; I hear it
weather or our office.
welcome. I myself would have no power; prithee let my meat make
well, here's my comfort.                            [Drinks]
wench.
went on four legs cannot make him give ground; and it
when he comes home. But what talk I of this? Call forth
where he looks out of the window.
which I hear from common rumours: now Lord Timon's happy hours
which now shall die in oblivion, and thou return unexperienc'd to
while thou liv'st, keep a good tongue in thy head.
whistle. Blow till thou burst thy wind, if room enough.
who hath got, as I take it, an ague. Where the devil
will be King and Queen-save our Graces!-and Trinculo
will in to be revenged for this villainy.               Exit
will lay out ten to see a dead Indian. Legg'd like a
will neither be fac'd nor brav'd. I say unto thee, I bid thy
will set him clear. How fairly this lord strives to appear foul!
winter tames man, woman, and beast; for it hath tam'd my old
wisest. He shall taste of my bottle; if he have never
with spavins, rayed with the yellows, past cure of the fives,
with the glanders and like to mose in the chine, troubled with
withal than a cat. You know him not, sir.
witness; but I would not for the wealth of Athens I had done't
word, and she knew him as well as I do, she would think scolding
wore it? I mean, in a sort.
world, an a man could light on them, would take her with all
would be none left to rail upon thee, and then thou wouldst sin
would do little good upon him. She may perhaps call him half a
would give a piece of silver. There would this monster
would once use our hearts, whereby we might express some part of
yare, yare! Take in the topsail. Tend to th' master's
yet say nothing neither.
you hear, sir? To leave frivolous circumstances, I pray you tell
you prove a mutineer-the next tree! The poor monster's
you, Lord Timon!
you. Who goes there, ha?
you; so you may continue, and laugh at nothing still.
young folks lay their heads together! Master, master, look about
your Grace.
your back already.
your chaps again.
your daughter, who is now Queen.
your harmless fairy, monster.
your lordship to furnish him, nothing doubting your present
your words show you a madman. Why, sir, what 'cerns it you if I
yours?
yourselves. Speak to 'em, fool.
'celsa senis' despair not.
Cock's passion, silence! I hear my master.
2. Watch. Here's Romeo's man. We found him in the churchyard.
3. Watch. Here is a friar that trembles, sighs, and weeps.
A LORD
A PEDANT
A WIDOW
ADRIAN
ADRIAN. 'Widow Dido' said you? You make me study of
ADRIAN. Carthage?
ADRIAN. Follow, I pray you.                             Exeunt
ADRIAN. It must needs be of subtle, tender, and delicate
ADRIAN. The air breathes upon us here most sweetly.
ADRIAN. Though this island seem to be desert-
ADRIAN. Tunis was never grac'd before with such a paragon
ADRIAN. Uninhabitable, and almost inaccessible-
ADRIAN. Yet-
ALCIBIADES. Ay, defil'd land, my lord.
ALCIBIADES. My heart is ever at your service, my lord.
ALCIBIADES. Sir, you have sav'd my longing, and I feed
ALCIBIADES. So they were bleeding new, my lord, there's no meat
ALL LADIES. Most thankfully, my lord.
ALL LORDS. O, none so welcome!
ALL SERVANTS. Ay, fool.
ALL SERVANTS. Ay; would they serv'd us!
ALL SERVANTS. Gramercies, good fool. How does your mistress?
ALL SERVANTS. Here, here, sir; here, sir.
ALL SERVANTS. What are we, Apemantus?
ALL SERVANTS. Why?
ALL. Amen.
ALL. So are we all.
ALONSO, King of Naples
ALONSO.  [Pointing to CALIBAN]  This is as strange a thing
ALONSO.  [To FERDINAND and MIRANDA]  Give me your
ALONSO. A daughter!
ALONSO. And Trinculo is reeling ripe; where should they
ALONSO. Give us kind keepers, heavens! What were these?
ALONSO. Good boatswain, have care. Where's the master?
ALONSO. Heard you this, Gonzalo?
ALONSO. Hence, and bestow your luggage where you found it.
ALONSO. I am hers.
ALONSO. I cannot too much muse
ALONSO. I heard nothing.
ALONSO. I long
ALONSO. I prithee, spare.
ALONSO. I say, Amen, Gonzalo!
ALONSO. I will stand to, and feed,
ALONSO. If this prove
ALONSO. If thou beest Prospero,
ALONSO. Irreparable is the loss; and patience
ALONSO. Is not this Stephano, my drunken butler?
ALONSO. Lead away.
ALONSO. Lead off this ground; and let's make further
ALONSO. No, no, he's gone.
ALONSO. Not I.
ALONSO. Now all the blessings
ALONSO. O, it is monstrous, monstrous!
ALONSO. Old lord, I cannot blame thee,
ALONSO. Prithee, no more; thou dost talk nothing to me.
ALONSO. Prithee, peace.
ALONSO. Prithee, peace.
ALONSO. So is the dear'st o' th' loss.
ALONSO. Thank you-wondrous heavy!
ALONSO. These are not natural events; they strengthen
ALONSO. This is as strange a maze as e'er men trod;
ALONSO. What harmony is this? My good friends, hark!
ALONSO. What is this maid with whom thou wast at play?
ALONSO. What, all so soon asleep! I wish mine eyes
ALONSO. Whe'er thou be'st he or no,
ALONSO. Why, how now?-Ho, awake!-Why are you drawn?
ALONSO. You cram these words into mine ears against
ALONSO. You the like loss!
ANTONIO, his brother, the usurping Duke of Milan
ANTONIO.  [Aside to SEBASTIAN]  I am right glad that he's
ANTONIO.  [Aside to SEBASTIAN]  Let it be to-night;
ANTONIO. 'Twas you we laugh'd at.
ANTONIO. A laughter.
ANTONIO. A space whose ev'ry cubit
ANTONIO. And how does your content
ANTONIO. And most chirurgeonly.
ANTONIO. And the rarest that e'er came there.
ANTONIO. And, sowing the kernels of it in the sea, bring
ANTONIO. Ay, sir; where lies that? If 'twere a kibe,
ANTONIO. Do you not hear me speak?
ANTONIO. Draw together;
ANTONIO. Fie, what a spendthrift is he of his tongue!
ANTONIO. Go sleep, and hear us.
ANTONIO. Ha, ha, ha!
ANTONIO. Hang, cur; hang, you whoreson, insolent noisemaker;
ANTONIO. He could not miss't.
ANTONIO. He misses not much.
ANTONIO. He'd sow 't with nettle-seed.
ANTONIO. His word is more than the miraculous harp.
ANTONIO. I am more serious than my custom; you
ANTONIO. I'll be thy second.      Exeunt SEBASTIAN and ANTONIO
ANTONIO. I'll believe both;
ANTONIO. I'll teach you how to flow.
ANTONIO. If but one of his pockets could speak, would it
ANTONIO. It is the quality o' th' climate.
ANTONIO. Let's all sink wi' th' King.
ANTONIO. Long live Gonzalo!
ANTONIO. Nay, good my lord, be not angry.
ANTONIO. Noble Sebastian,
ANTONIO. None, man; all idle; whores and knaves.
ANTONIO. Nor I; my spirits are nimble.
ANTONIO. O,
ANTONIO. O, 'twas a din to fright a monster's ear,
ANTONIO. O, out of that 'no hope'
ANTONIO. O, widow Dido! Ay, widow Dido.
ANTONIO. Or, as 'twere perfum'd by a fen.
ANTONIO. She that is Queen of Tunis; she that dwells
ANTONIO. Temperance was a delicate wench.
ANTONIO. That 'sort' was well fish'd for.
ANTONIO. The cock'rel.
ANTONIO. The ground indeed is tawny.
ANTONIO. The latter end of his commonwealth forgets the
ANTONIO. The visitor will not give him o'er so.
ANTONIO. Then let us both be sudden.
ANTONIO. Then tell me,
ANTONIO. Thus, sir:
ANTONIO. True.
ANTONIO. True; save means to live.
ANTONIO. Very foul.
ANTONIO. Very like; one of them
ANTONIO. We are merely cheated of our lives by drunkards.
ANTONIO. We two, my lord,
ANTONIO. What a blow was there given!
ANTONIO. What impossible matter will he make easy next?
ANTONIO. Where is the master, boson?
ANTONIO. Which, of he or Adrian, for a good wager, first
ANTONIO. Why, in good time.
ANTONIO. Widow! a pox o' that! How came that 'widow'
APEMANTUS. Are they not Athenians?
APEMANTUS. Art not a poet?
APEMANTUS. Asses.
APEMANTUS. Ay.
APEMANTUS. Ay; to see meat fill knaves and wine heat fools.
APEMANTUS. Canst not read?
APEMANTUS. Come with me, fool, come.
APEMANTUS. Do it then, that we may account thee a whoremaster and a
APEMANTUS. Dost dialogue with thy shadow?
APEMANTUS. E'en as Apemantus does now: hate a lord with my heart.
APEMANTUS. E'en so thou outrun'st grace.
APEMANTUS. Faith, for the worst is filthy, and would not hold
APEMANTUS. Flow this way! A brave fellow! He keeps his tides well.
APEMANTUS. Good! gramercy.
APEMANTUS. He last ask'd the question. Poor rogues and usurers'
APEMANTUS. He wrought better that made the painter; and yet he's
APEMANTUS. Ho, ho! I laugh to think that babe a bastard.
APEMANTUS. Ho, ho, confess'd it! Hang'd it, have you not?
APEMANTUS. Hoy-day, what a sweep of vanity comes this way!
APEMANTUS. I scorn thy meat; 't'would choke me, for I should ne'er
APEMANTUS. I will fly, like a dog, the heels o' th' ass.  Exit
APEMANTUS. If Timon stay at home. You three serve three usurers?
APEMANTUS. Let me stay at thine apperil, Timon.
APEMANTUS. Much!                                [Sound tucket]
APEMANTUS. No, 'tis to thyself. [To the FOOL] Come away.
APEMANTUS. No, I will do nothing at thy bidding; make thy requests
APEMANTUS. No, I'll nothing; for if I should be brib'd too, there
APEMANTUS. No, thou stand'st single; th'art not on him yet.
APEMANTUS. No;
APEMANTUS. No; I eat not lords.
APEMANTUS. Not so well as plain dealing, which will not cost a man
APEMANTUS. Not worth my thinking. How now, poet!
APEMANTUS. O, they eat lords; so they come by great bellies.
APEMANTUS. Of nothing so much as that I am not like Timon.
APEMANTUS. Right, if doing nothing be death by th' law.
APEMANTUS. Shouldst have kept one to thyself, for I mean to give
APEMANTUS. So thou apprehend'st it take it for thy labour.
APEMANTUS. So would I- as good a trick as ever hangman serv'd
APEMANTUS. So, so, there!
APEMANTUS. So. Thou wilt not hear me now: thou shalt not then. I'll
APEMANTUS. That I had no angry wit to be a lord.- Art not thou a
APEMANTUS. That answer might have become Apemantus.
APEMANTUS. That you ask me what you are, and do not know
APEMANTUS. The best, for the innocence.
APEMANTUS. The more accursed thou that still omit'st it.
APEMANTUS. Then I repent not.
APEMANTUS. Then thou liest. Look in thy last work, where thou hast
APEMANTUS. There will little learning die, then, that day thou art
APEMANTUS. Thou art a fool to bid me farewell twice.
APEMANTUS. Thou know'st I do; I call'd thee by thy name.
APEMANTUS. Thou liest.
APEMANTUS. Thou weep'st to make them drink, Timon.
APEMANTUS. Thy mother's of my generation; what's she, if I be a dog?
APEMANTUS. Till I be gentle, stay thou for thy good morrow;
APEMANTUS. Time to be honest.
APEMANTUS. To knock out an honest Athenian's brains.
APEMANTUS. Traffic confound thee, if the gods will not!
APEMANTUS. Traffic's thy god, and thy god confound thee!
APEMANTUS. What a coil's here!
APEMANTUS. Would I had a rod in my mouth, that I might answer thee
APEMANTUS. Would all those flatterers were thine enemies then, that
APEMANTUS. Yes, he is worthy of thee, and to pay thee for thy
APEMANTUS. Yes.
ARIEL, an airy spirit
ARIEL.  [Aside to PROSPERO]  Sir, all this service
ARIEL.  [Aside to PROSPERO]  Was't well done?
ARIEL. All hail, great master! grave sir, hail! I come
ARIEL. Ay, my commander. When I presented 'Ceres.'
ARIEL. Ay, sir.
ARIEL. Before you can say 'come' and 'go,'
ARIEL. Close by, my master.
ARIEL. Confin'd together
ARIEL. Hark, they roar.
ARIEL. I do not, sir.
ARIEL. I drink the air before me, and return
ARIEL. I go, I go.                                        Exit
ARIEL. I prithee,
ARIEL. I thank thee, master.
ARIEL. I told you, sir, they were red-hot with drinking;
ARIEL. I'll fetch them, sir.                              Exit
ARIEL. Is there more toil? Since thou dost give me pains,
ARIEL. Mine would, sir, were I human.
ARIEL. My liberty.
ARIEL. My lord, it shall be done.                         Exit
ARIEL. My master through his art foresees the danger
ARIEL. No, sir.
ARIEL. No.
ARIEL. Not a hair perish'd;
ARIEL. Not a soul
ARIEL. On the sixth hour; at which time, my lord,
ARIEL. Pardon, master;
ARIEL. Past the mid season.
ARIEL. Presently?
ARIEL. Prospero my lord shall know what I have done;
ARIEL. Safely in harbour
ARIEL. Silver! there it goes, Silver!
ARIEL. Sir, in Argier.
ARIEL. That's my noble master!
ARIEL. This will I tell my master.
ARIEL. Thou liest.
ARIEL. Thou liest.
ARIEL. Thou liest; thou canst not.
ARIEL. Thy thoughts I cleave to. What's thy pleasure?
ARIEL. To every article.
ARIEL. To th' syllable.
ARIEL. Well! I conceive.                                  Exit
ARIEL. What would my potent master? Here I am.
ARIEL. Yes, Caliban her son.
ARIEL. You are three men of sin, whom Destiny,
BAPTISTA MINOLA, a gentleman of Padua
BAPTISTA.  [To LUCENTIO]  But do you hear, sir? Have you married my
BAPTISTA.  [To TRANIO]  Signior Lucentio, this is the 'pointed day
BAPTISTA. A mighty man of Pisa. By report
BAPTISTA. A thousand thanks, Signior Gremio. Welcome, good Cambio.
BAPTISTA. After my death, the one half of my lands
BAPTISTA. And I to sound the depth of this knavery.       Exit
BAPTISTA. And yet you halt not.
BAPTISTA. Away with the dotard; to the gaol with him!
BAPTISTA. Ay, that Petruchio came.
BAPTISTA. Ay, when the special thing is well obtain'd,
BAPTISTA. But thus, I trust, you will not marry her.
BAPTISTA. Content you, gentlemen; I will compound this strife.
BAPTISTA. Didst thou not say he comes?
BAPTISTA. Faith, gentlemen, now I play a merchant's part,
BAPTISTA. Gentlemen, content ye; I am resolv'd.
BAPTISTA. Gentlemen, importune me no farther,
BAPTISTA. Gentlemen, that I may soon make good
BAPTISTA. Go, girl, I cannot blame thee now to weep,
BAPTISTA. Good morrow, neighbour Gremio.
BAPTISTA. How hast thou offended?
BAPTISTA. How likes Gremio these quick-witted folks?
BAPTISTA. How now, my friend! Why dost thou look so pale?
BAPTISTA. I am glad he's come, howsoe'er he comes.
BAPTISTA. I follow you.                                 Exeunt
BAPTISTA. I have a daughter, sir, call'd Katherina.
BAPTISTA. I know him well; you are welcome for his sake.
BAPTISTA. I know not what to say; but give me your hands.
BAPTISTA. I must confess your offer is the best;
BAPTISTA. I'll after him and see the event of this.
BAPTISTA. Is he come?
BAPTISTA. Is it new and old too? How may that be?
BAPTISTA. Is't possible you will away to-night?
BAPTISTA. It likes me well. Cambio, hie you home,
BAPTISTA. Lucentio is your name? Of whence, I pray?
BAPTISTA. Mistake me not; I speak but as I find.
BAPTISTA. Nay, let them go, a couple of quiet ones.
BAPTISTA. Neighbours and friends, though bride and bridegroom wants
BAPTISTA. Not in my house, Lucentio, for you know
BAPTISTA. Now fair befall thee, good Petruchio!
BAPTISTA. Now, Signior Petruchio, how speed you with my daughter?
BAPTISTA. Now, by my holidame, here comes Katherina!
BAPTISTA. Now, in good sadness, son Petruchio,
BAPTISTA. O, O, Petruchio! Tranio hits you now.
BAPTISTA. Padua affords this kindness, son Petruchio.
BAPTISTA. She shall, Lucentio. Come, gentlemen, let's go.
BAPTISTA. Sir, pardon me in what I have to say.
BAPTISTA. Son, I'll be your half Bianca comes.
BAPTISTA. Talk not, Signior Gremio; I say he shall go to prison.
BAPTISTA. The gain I seek is quiet in the match.
BAPTISTA. Was ever gentleman thus griev'd as I?
BAPTISTA. Well mayst thou woo, and happy be thy speed
BAPTISTA. Well, gentlemen,
BAPTISTA. Well, go with me, and be not so discomfited;
BAPTISTA. What then?
BAPTISTA. What, in my sight? Bianca, get thee in.
BAPTISTA. What, is the man lunatic?
BAPTISTA. What, will my daughter prove a good musician?
BAPTISTA. When will he be here?
BAPTISTA. Who comes with him?
BAPTISTA. Why, how now, dame! Whence grows this insolence?
BAPTISTA. Why, how now, daughter Katherine, in your dumps?
BAPTISTA. Why, sir, you know this is your wedding-day.
BAPTISTA. Why, tell me, is not this my Cambio?
BAPTISTA. Why, that's all one.
BAPTISTA. Why, then thou canst not break her to the lute?
BAPTISTA. Y'are welcome, sir, and he for your good sake;
BAPTISTA. You are welcome, sir.
BAPTISTA. You mistake, sir; you mistake, sir. Pray, what do you
BIANCA
BIANCA.  [Reads]
BIANCA. Am I your bird? I mean to shift my bush,
BIANCA. And may you prove, sir, master of your art!
BIANCA. Ay, but not frighted me; therefore I'll sleep again.
BIANCA. Believe me, sister, of all the men alive
BIANCA. Cambio is chang'd into Lucentio.
BIANCA. Construe them.
BIANCA. Farewell, sweet masters, both; I must be gone.
BIANCA. Fie! what a foolish duty call you this?
BIANCA. God give him joy!
BIANCA. Good sister, wrong me not, nor wrong yourself,
BIANCA. He says so, Tranio.
BIANCA. Head and butt! An hasty-witted body
BIANCA. I must believe my master; else, I promise you,
BIANCA. If you affect him, sister, here I swear
BIANCA. In time I may believe, yet I mistrust.
BIANCA. Is it for him you do envy me so?
BIANCA. Let's hear. O fie! the treble jars.
BIANCA. Now let me see if I can construe it: 'Hic ibat Simois' I
BIANCA. Pardon, dear father.
BIANCA. Sister, content you in my discontent.
BIANCA. That, being mad herself, she's madly mated.
BIANCA. The more fool you for laying on my duty.
BIANCA. The taming-school! What, is there such a place?
BIANCA. Tranio, you jest; but have you both forsworn me?
BIANCA. What, master, read you, First resolve me that.
BIANCA. Where left we last?
BIANCA. Why, I am past my gamut long ago.
BIANCA. Why, gentlemen, you do me double wrong
BIONDELLO
BIONDELLO.  [Aside]  As much as an apple doth an oyster, and all
BIONDELLO. Cambio.
BIONDELLO. Faith, nothing; but has left me here behind to expound
BIONDELLO. Forgot you! No, sir. I could not forget you, for I never
BIONDELLO. He is coming.
BIONDELLO. He that has the two fair daughters; is't he you mean?
BIONDELLO. Help, help, help! Here's a madman will murder me.
BIONDELLO. His daughter is to be brought by you to the supper.
BIONDELLO. I cannot tarry. I knew a wench married in an afternoon
BIONDELLO. I cannot tell, except they are busied about a
BIONDELLO. I go.                                          Exit
BIONDELLO. I have seen them in the church together. God send 'em
BIONDELLO. I hope I may choose, sir.
BIONDELLO. I pray the gods she may, with all my heart.
BIONDELLO. I told him that your father was at Venice,
BIONDELLO. I, sir? Ne'er a whit.
BIONDELLO. Master, a mercatante or a pedant,
BIONDELLO. Nay, by Saint Jamy,
BIONDELLO. Nay, faith, I'll see the church a your back, and then
BIONDELLO. No, sir; I say his horse comes with him on his back.
BIONDELLO. O master, master, have watch'd so long
BIONDELLO. O, sir, his lackey, for all the world caparison'd like
BIONDELLO. O, we are spoil'd; and yonder he is! Deny him, forswear
BIONDELLO. She says you have some goodly jest in hand:
BIONDELLO. Sir, my mistress sends you word
BIONDELLO. Softly and swiftly, sir, for the priest is ready.
BIONDELLO. The better for him; would I were so too!
BIONDELLO. The old priest at Saint Luke's church is at your command
BIONDELLO. Then thus: Baptista is safe, talking with the deceiving
BIONDELLO. Tut, fear not me.
BIONDELLO. What, my old worshipful old master? Yes, marry, sir; see
BIONDELLO. When he stands where I am and sees you there.
BIONDELLO. Where have I been! Nay, how now! where are you?
BIONDELLO. Who? that Petruchio came?
BIONDELLO. Why, Petruchio is coming- in a new hat and an old
BIONDELLO. Why, is it not news to hear of Petruchio's coming?
BIONDELLO. Why, no, sir.
BIONDELLO. Why, sir, he comes not.
BIONDELLO. You saw my master wink and laugh upon you?
BOATSWAIN
BOATSWAIN. Do you not hear him? You mar our labour;
BOATSWAIN. Down with the topmast. Yare, lower, lower!
BOATSWAIN. Heigh, my hearts! cheerly, cheerly, my hearts!
BOATSWAIN. Here, master; what cheer?
BOATSWAIN. I pray now, keep below.
BOATSWAIN. If I did think, sir, I were well awake,
BOATSWAIN. Lay her a-hold, a-hold; set her two courses; off
BOATSWAIN. None that I more love than myself. You are
BOATSWAIN. The best news is that we have safely found
BOATSWAIN. What, must our mouths be cold?
BOATSWAIN. When the sea is. Hence! What cares these
BOATSWAIN. Work you, then.
Bal. As I did sleep under this yew tree here,
Bal. Full half an hour.
Bal. Here's one, a friend, and one that knows you well.
Bal. I brought my master news of Juliet's death;
Bal. I dare not, sir.
Bal. I will be gone, sir, and not trouble you.
Bal. It doth so, holy sir; and there's my master,
Bal. Romeo.
Bal. [aside] For all this same, I'll hide me hereabout.
Boy. He came with flowers to strew his lady's grave;
Boy. This is the place. There, where the torch doth burn.
CALIBAN, a savage and deformed slave
CALIBAN.   [ Within]  There's wood enough within.
CALIBAN.  [Aside]  These be fine things, an if they be not
CALIBAN.  [Sings drunkenly]  Farewell, master; farewell,
CALIBAN. All the infections that the sun sucks up
CALIBAN. Art thou afeard?
CALIBAN. As I told thee before, I am subject to a tyrant,
CALIBAN. As wicked dew as e'er my mother brush'd
CALIBAN. Ay, lord; she will become thy bed, I warrant,
CALIBAN. Ay, that I will; and I'll be wise hereafter,
CALIBAN. Be not afeard. The isle is full of noises,
CALIBAN. Beat him enough; after a little time, I'll beat
CALIBAN. Do not torment me, prithee; I'll bring my wood
CALIBAN. Do not torment me. O!
CALIBAN. Good my lord, give me thy favour still.
CALIBAN. Ha, ha, ha!
CALIBAN. Hast thou not dropp'd from heaven?
CALIBAN. How does thy honour? Let me lick thy shoe.
CALIBAN. I have seen thee in her, and I do adore thee. My
CALIBAN. I must eat my dinner.
CALIBAN. I prithee let me bring thee where crabs grow;
CALIBAN. I say, by sorcery he got this isle;
CALIBAN. I shall be pinch'd to death.
CALIBAN. I thank my noble lord. Wilt thou be pleas'd to
CALIBAN. I will have none on't. We shall lose our time,
CALIBAN. I'll kiss thy foot; I'll swear myself thy
CALIBAN. I'll show thee every fertile inch o' th' island;
CALIBAN. I'll show thee the best springs; I'll pluck thee
CALIBAN. I'll swear upon that bottle to be thy true
CALIBAN. Let it alone, thou fool; it is but trash.
CALIBAN. Lo, how he mocks me! Wilt thou let him, my
CALIBAN. Lo, lo again! Bite him to death, I prithee.
CALIBAN. No more dams I'll make for fish;
CALIBAN. No, pray thee.
CALIBAN. O Setebos, these be brave spirits indeed!
CALIBAN. O ho, O ho! Would't had been done.
CALIBAN. Pray you, tread softly, that the blind mole may not
CALIBAN. Prithee, my king, be quiet. Seest thou here,
CALIBAN. That's not the tune.
CALIBAN. The dropsy drown this fool! What do you mean
CALIBAN. The spirit torments me. O!
CALIBAN. Thou dost me yet but little hurt; thou wilt anon,
CALIBAN. Thou liest, thou jesting monkey, thou;
CALIBAN. Thou mak'st me merry; I am full of pleasure.
CALIBAN. Thou shalt be lord of it, and I'll serve thee.
CALIBAN. What a pied ninny's this! Thou scurvy patch!
CALIBAN. When Prospero is destroy'd.
CALIBAN. Why, as I told thee, 'tis a custom with him
CALIBAN. Within this half hour will he be asleep.
CALIBAN. Yea, yea, my lord; I'll yield him thee asleep,
CALIBAN. You taught me language, and my profit on't
CAPHIS. Good even, Varro. What, you come for money?
CAPHIS. Here comes the lord.
CAPHIS. Here, sir; what is your pleasure?
CAPHIS. I go, sir.
CAPHIS. I will, sir.
CAPHIS. If you did know, my lord, my master's wants-
CAPHIS. It is. And yours too, Isidore?
CAPHIS. My lord, here is a note of certain dues.
CAPHIS. Nay, good my lord-
CAPHIS. Of Athens here, my lord.
CAPHIS. Please it your lordship, he hath put me off
CAPHIS. Stay, stay, here comes the fool with Apemantus.
CAPHIS. Where's the fool now?
CAPHIS. Would we were all discharg'd!
CERES
CERES. Earth's increase, foison plenty,
CERES. Hail, many-coloured messenger, that ne'er
CERES. Highest Queen of State,
CERES. Tell me, heavenly bow,
CHRISTOPHER SLY, a tinker
CUPID. Hail to thee, worthy Timon, and to all
CURTIS
CURTIS. All ready; and therefore, I pray thee, news.
CURTIS. Away, you three-inch fool! I am no beast.
CURTIS. Both of one horse?
CURTIS. By this reck'ning he is more shrew than she.
CURTIS. Come, you are so full of cony-catching!
CURTIS. Do you hear, ho? You must meet my master, to countenance my
CURTIS. Here.
CURTIS. How?
CURTIS. I call them forth to credit her.
CURTIS. I prithee, good Grumio, tell me how goes the world?
CURTIS. In her chamber. Making a sermon of continency to her,
CURTIS. Is my master and his wife coming, Grumio?
CURTIS. Is she so hot a shrew as she's reported?
CURTIS. Let's ha't, good Grumio.
CURTIS. There's fire ready; and therefore, good Grumio, the news?
CURTIS. They are.
CURTIS. This 'tis to feel a tale, not to hear a tale.
CURTIS. Who is that calls so coldly?
CURTIS. Who knows not that?
CURTIS. Why, a horse.
Cap. As rich shall Romeo's by his lady's lie-
Cap. O brother Montague, give me thy hand.
Cap. O heavens! O wife, look how our daughter bleeds!
Cap. What should it be, that they so shriek abroad?
Chief Watch. 'the ground is bloody. Search about the churchyard.
Chief Watch. A great suspicion! Stay the friar too.
Chief Watch. Here is a friar, and slaughter'd Romeo's man,
Chief Watch. Hold him in safety till the Prince come hither.
Chief Watch. Sovereign, here lies the County Paris slain;
Chief Watch. [within] Lead, boy. Which way?
FERDINAND, MIRANDA. We wish your peace.                 Exeunt
FERDINAND, son to the King of Naples
FERDINAND. A single thing, as I am now, that wonders
FERDINAND. A thousand thousand!
FERDINAND. Admir'd Miranda!
FERDINAND. As I hope
FERDINAND. Ay, with a heart as willing
FERDINAND. I am, in my condition,
FERDINAND. I do believe it
FERDINAND. I warrant you, sir,
FERDINAND. Let me live here ever;
FERDINAND. Most sure, the goddess
FERDINAND. My language? Heavens!
FERDINAND. My mistress, dearest;
FERDINAND. No, as I am a man.
FERDINAND. No, my dearest love,
FERDINAND. No, noble mistress; 'tis fresh morning with me
FERDINAND. No, precious creature;
FERDINAND. No;
FERDINAND. O heaven, O earth, bear witness to this sound,
FERDINAND. O most dear mistress,
FERDINAND. O, if a virgin,
FERDINAND. Sir, she is mortal;
FERDINAND. So they are;
FERDINAND. The ditty does remember my drown'd father.
FERDINAND. There be some sports are painful, and their
FERDINAND. This is a most majestic vision, and
FERDINAND. This is strange; your father's in some passion
FERDINAND. Though the seas threaten, they are merciful;
FERDINAND. Where should this music be? I' th' air or th'
FERDINAND. Wherefore weep you?
FERDINAND. Yes, faith, and all his lords, the Duke of Milan
FIRST HUNTSMAN. Believe me, lord, I think he cannot choose.
FIRST HUNTSMAN. I will, my lord.
FIRST HUNTSMAN. My lord, I warrant you we will play our part
FIRST HUNTSMAN. Why, Belman is as good as he, my lord;
FIRST LADY. My lord, you take us even at the best.
FIRST LORD. Hang thyself.
FIRST LORD. He's opposite to humanity. Come, shall we in
FIRST LORD. I am so far already in your gifts-
FIRST LORD. I'll keep you company.                      Exeunt
FIRST LORD. Might we but have that happiness, my lord, that you
FIRST LORD. My lord, we always have confess'd it.
FIRST LORD. That time serves still.
FIRST LORD. The best of happiness, honour, and fortunes, keep with
FIRST LORD. The noblest mind he carries
FIRST LORD. We are so virtuously bound-
FIRST LORD. What time o' day is't, Apemantus?
FIRST LORD. Where be our men?
FIRST LORD. You see, my lord, how ample y'are belov'd.
FIRST SERVANT. And, till the tears that she hath shed for thee
FIRST SERVANT. Ay.
FIRST SERVANT. My lord, you nod; you do not mind the play.
FIRST SERVANT. O, yes, my lord, but very idle words;
FIRST SERVANT. Say thou wilt course; thy greyhounds are as swift
FIRST SERVANT. Will't please your lordship drink a cup of sack?
FIRST STRANGER. Do you observe this, Hostilius?
FIRST STRANGER. For mine own part,
FIRST STRANGER. We know him for no less, though we are but
FIRST STRANGER. Why, this is the world's soul; and just of the same
FIRST VARRO'S SERVANT. 'Tis much deep; and it should seem by th'
FIRST VARRO'S SERVANT. Well met; good morrow, Titus and Hortensius.
FIRST VARRO'S SERVANT. Yes, mine's three thousand crowns; what's
FLAMINIUS. As you have said, my lord.          Exeunt SERVANTS
FLAMINIUS. Faith, nothing but an empty box, sir, which in my lord's
FLAMINIUS. His health is well, sir.
FLAMINIUS. I need not tell him that; he knows you are to diligent.
FLAMINIUS. I thank you, sir.
FLAMINIUS. Is't possible the world should so much differ,
FLAMINIUS. May these add to the number that may scald thee!
FLAMINIUS. No, indeed, he is not.
FLAMINIUS. Your lordship speaks your pleasure.
FLAVIUS. 'Heavens,' have I said 'the bounty of this lord!
FLAVIUS. 'Tis all engag'd, some forfeited and gone;
FLAVIUS. Assurance bless your thoughts!
FLAVIUS. Ay,
FLAVIUS. I beseech your honour, vouchsafe me a word; it does
FLAVIUS. I have been bold,
FLAVIUS. I would I could not think it.
FLAVIUS. If you suspect my husbandry or falsehood,
FLAVIUS. My lord?
FLAVIUS. No care, no stop! So senseless of expense
FLAVIUS. O my good lord,
FLAVIUS. O my good lord, the world is but a word;
FLAVIUS. Please you, gentlemen,
FLAVIUS. Pray draw near.                                  Exit
FLAVIUS. Pray you walk near; I'll speak with you anon.
FLAVIUS. They answer, in a joint and corporate voice,
FLAVIUS. What do ye ask of me, my friend?
FLAVIUS. Yes, my lord. [Aside] More jewels yet!
FLAVIUS. You would not hear me
FLAVIUS. [Aside] I scarce know how.
FLAVIUS. [Aside] Lord Lucius and Lucullus? Humh!
FLAVIUS. [Aside] What will this come to?
FOOL. A fool in good clothes, and something like thee. 'Tis a
FOOL. Are you three usurers' men?
FOOL. How do you, gentlemen?
FOOL. I do not always follow lover, elder brother, and woman;
FOOL. I think no usurer but has a fool to his servant. My mistress
FOOL. Look you, here comes my mistress' page.
FOOL. Nor thou altogether a wise man.
FOOL. She's e'en setting on water to scald such chickens as you
FOOL. Will you leave me there?
FRANCISCO
FRANCISCO. Sir, he may live;
FRANCISCO. They vanish'd strangely.
Friar. Bliss be upon you! Tell me, good my friend,
Friar. Go with me to the vault.
Friar. How long hath he been there?
Friar. I am the greatest, able to do least,
Friar. I hear some noise. Lady, come from that nest
Friar. I will be brief, for my short date of breath
Friar. Romeo!
Friar. Saint Francis be my speed! how oft to-night
Friar. Stay then; I'll go alone. Fear comes upon me.
Friar. Who is it?
GONZALO, an honest old counsellor
GONZALO. All things in common nature should produce
GONZALO. All three of them are desperate; their great guilt,
GONZALO. All torment, trouble, wonder and amazement,
GONZALO. And were the king on't, what would I do?
GONZALO. And-do you mark me, sir?
GONZALO. Ay.
GONZALO. Be it so. Amen!
GONZALO. Beseech you, sir, be merry; you have cause,
GONZALO. But the rarity of it is, which is indeed almost
GONZALO. By'r lakin, I can go no further, sir;
GONZALO. Dolour comes to him, indeed; you have spoken
GONZALO. Faith, sir, you need not fear. When we were boys,
GONZALO. Good, yet remember whom thou hast aboard.
GONZALO. Had I plantation of this isle, my lord-
GONZALO. He'll be hang'd yet,
GONZALO. Heavens keep him from these beasts!
GONZALO. Here is everything advantageous to life.
GONZALO. How lush and lusty the grass looks! how green!
GONZALO. I assure you, Carthage.
GONZALO. I do well believe your Highness; and did it to
GONZALO. I have great comfort from this fellow. Methinks
GONZALO. I have inly wept,
GONZALO. I would with such perfection govern, sir,
GONZALO. I' th' commonwealth I would by contraries
GONZALO. I' th' name of something holy, sir, why stand you
GONZALO. I'll warrant him for drowning, though the ship were
GONZALO. If in Naples
GONZALO. Is not, sir, my doublet as fresh as the first day I
GONZALO. It is foul weather in us all, good sir,
GONZALO. Marvellous sweet music!
GONZALO. Methinks our garments are now as fresh as when
GONZALO. My lord Sebastian,
GONZALO. Nay, good, be patient.
GONZALO. No, I warrant you; I will not adventure my
GONZALO. Not since widow Dido's time.
GONZALO. Now would I give a thousand furlongs of sea for
GONZALO. Now, good angels
GONZALO. Sir, we were talking that our garments seem now
GONZALO. Sir-
GONZALO. That our garments, being, as they were, drench'd
GONZALO. The King and Prince at prayers!
GONZALO. Therefore, my lord-
GONZALO. This Tunis, sir, was Carthage.
GONZALO. Upon mine honour, sir, I heard a humming,
GONZALO. Was Milan thrust from Milan, that his issue
GONZALO. Well, I have done; but yet-
GONZALO. What's the matter?
GONZALO. When I wore it at your daughter's marriage?
GONZALO. When every grief is entertain'd that's offer'd,
GONZALO. Whether this be
GONZALO. Who in this kind of merry fooling am nothing to
GONZALO. You are gentlemen of brave mettle; you would
GREMIO
GREMIO, TRANIO. Amen, say we; we will be witnesses.
GREMIO. A bridegroom, say you? 'Tis a groom indeed,
GREMIO. A husband? a devil.
GREMIO. Adieu, good neighbour.                   Exit BAPTISTA
GREMIO. And may not young men die as well as old?
GREMIO. And me, too, good Lord!
GREMIO. And so we will- provided that he win her.
GREMIO. And you are well met, Signior Hortensio.
GREMIO. As willingly as e'er I came from school.
GREMIO. Ay, and a kind one too.
GREMIO. Ay, marry, sir, now it begins to work.
GREMIO. Believe me, sir, they butt together well.
GREMIO. Beloved of me- and that my deeds shall prove.
GREMIO. But so is not she.
GREMIO. But thine doth fry.
GREMIO. First, as you know, my house within the city
GREMIO. For this reason, if you'll know,
GREMIO. Good morrow, neighbour Baptista.
GREMIO. Hark you, sir, you mean not her to-
GREMIO. Hark, Petruchio; she says she'll see thee hang'd first.
GREMIO. Here's packing, with a witness, to deceive us all!
GREMIO. Hortensio, hark:
GREMIO. I am agreed; and would I had given him the best horse in
GREMIO. I cannot tell; but I had as lief take her dowry with this
GREMIO. I doubt it not, sir; but you will curse your wooing.
GREMIO. I marvel Cambio comes not all this while.
GREMIO. I say a devil. Think'st thou, Hortensio, though her father
GREMIO. I warrant him, Petruchio is Kated.
GREMIO. Let me entreat you.
GREMIO. My cake is dough, but I'll in among the rest;
GREMIO. Nay, I dare not swear it.
GREMIO. Nay, I have off'red all; I have no more;
GREMIO. No doubt but he hath got a quiet catch.
GREMIO. No, say'st me so, friend? What countryman?
GREMIO. No; if without more words you will get you hence.
GREMIO. O Sir, such a life with such a wife were strange!
GREMIO. O this learning, what a thing it is!
GREMIO. O, very well; I have perus'd the note.
GREMIO. Saving your tale, Petruchio, I pray,
GREMIO. So said, so done, is well.
GREMIO. Stay, Officer; he shall not go to prison.
GREMIO. Take heed, Signior Baptista, lest you be cony-catch'd in
GREMIO. They're busy within; you were best knock louder.
GREMIO. To cart her rather. She's too rough for me.
GREMIO. Trembled and shook, for why he stamp'd and swore
GREMIO. Tut, she's a lamb, a dove, a fool, to him!
GREMIO. Two thousand ducats by the year of land!
GREMIO. Was ever match clapp'd up so suddenly?
GREMIO. Went they not quickly, I should die with laughing.
GREMIO. What's that, I pray?
GREMIO. What, this gentleman will out-talk us all!
GREMIO. Why will you mew her up,
GREMIO. Why, he's a devil, a devil, a very fiend.
GREMIO. Yea, leave that labour to great Hercules,
GREMIO. Yes, I know thee to be Signior Lucentio.
GREMIO. You are too blunt; go to it orderly.
GREMIO. You may go to the devil's dam; your gifts are so good
GREMIO. Youngling, thou canst not love so dear as I.
GRUMIO
GRUMIO, BIONDELLO. O excellent motion! Fellows, let's be gone.
GRUMIO. A cold world, Curtis, in every office but thine; and
GRUMIO. A piece of ice. If thou doubt it, thou mayst slide from my
GRUMIO. A proper stripling, and an amorous!
GRUMIO. Am I but three inches? Why, thy horn is a foot, and so long
GRUMIO. And that his bags shall prove.
GRUMIO. And therefore 'tis call'd a sensible tale; and this cuff
GRUMIO. Ay, and that thou and the proudest of you all shall find
GRUMIO. Ay, but the mustard is too hot a little.
GRUMIO. Ay, sir, they be ready; the oats have eaten the horses.
GRUMIO. Call them forth.
GRUMIO. E'en at hand, alighted by this; and therefore be not-
GRUMIO. Error i' th' bill, sir; error i' th' bill! I commanded the
GRUMIO. Face not me. Thou hast brav'd many men; brave not me. I
GRUMIO. Fie, fie on all tired jades, on all mad masters, and all
GRUMIO. First know my horse is tired; my master and mistress fall'n
GRUMIO. For he fears none.
GRUMIO. Help, masters, help! My master is mad.
GRUMIO. Here's no knavery! See, to beguile the old folks, how the
GRUMIO. Here, sir; as foolish as I was before.
GRUMIO. I am for thee straight; take thou the bill, give me thy
GRUMIO. I cannot tell; I fear 'tis choleric.
GRUMIO. I confess the cape.
GRUMIO. I confess two sleeves.
GRUMIO. I fear it is too choleric a meat.
GRUMIO. I gave him no order; I gave him the stuff.
GRUMIO. I pray you, sir, let him go while the humour lasts. O' my
GRUMIO. I would I were as sure of a good dinner.
GRUMIO. Katherine the curst!
GRUMIO. Knock at the gate? O heavens! Spake you not these words
GRUMIO. Knock you here, sir? Why, sir, what am I, sir, that I
GRUMIO. Lend thine ear.
GRUMIO. Marry, sir, with needle and thread.
GRUMIO. Master, if ever I said loose-bodied gown, sew me in the
GRUMIO. My master is grown quarrelsome. I should knock you first,
GRUMIO. Nathaniel's coat, sir, was not fully made,
GRUMIO. Nay, 'tis no matter, sir, what he 'leges in Latin. If this
GRUMIO. Nay, look you, sir, he tells you flatly what his mind is.
GRUMIO. Nay, then I will not; you shall have the mustard,
GRUMIO. No, no, forsooth; I dare not for my life.
GRUMIO. O this woodcock, what an ass it is!
GRUMIO. O, ay, Curtis, ay; and therefore fire, fire; cast on no
GRUMIO. O, sir, the conceit is deeper than you think for.
GRUMIO. Out of their saddles into the dirt; and thereby hangs a
GRUMIO. She was, good Curtis, before this frost; but thou know'st
GRUMIO. Tell thou the tale. But hadst thou not cross'd me, thou
GRUMIO. The note lies in's throat, if he say I said so.
GRUMIO. There.                                  [Striking him]
GRUMIO. Thou hast fac'd many things.
GRUMIO. Thou, it seems, that calls for company to countenance her.
GRUMIO. Villain, not for thy life! Take up my mistress' gown for
GRUMIO. Welcome, you!- how now, you!- what, you!- fellow, you!- and
GRUMIO. What say you to a neat's foot?
GRUMIO. What's that to thee?
GRUMIO. Where is he?
GRUMIO. Why then the mustard without the beef.
GRUMIO. Why, 'Jack boy! ho, boy!' and as much news as thou wilt.
GRUMIO. Why, she comes to borrow nothing of them.
GRUMIO. Why, she hath a face of her own.
GRUMIO. Why, therefore, fire; for I have caught extreme cold.
GRUMIO. Will he woo her? Ay, or I'll hang her.
GRUMIO. You are i' th' right, sir; 'tis for my mistress.
HABERDASHER. Here is the cap your worship did bespeak.
HORTENSIO
HORTENSIO will be quit with thee by changing.             Exit
HORTENSIO.  [Aside]  I see she's like to have neither cap nor gown.
HORTENSIO.  [Aside]  That will not be in haste.
HORTENSIO.  [To LUCENTIO]  You may go walk and give me leave
HORTENSIO. 'A will make the man mad, to make a woman of him.
HORTENSIO. 'Tis well; and I have met a gentleman
HORTENSIO. Alla nostra casa ben venuto,
HORTENSIO. And so it is. I wonder what it bodes.
HORTENSIO. But I have cause to pry into this pedant;
HORTENSIO. But, wrangling pedant, this is
HORTENSIO. Confess, confess; hath he not hit you here?
HORTENSIO. Content.
HORTENSIO. Content. What's the wager?
HORTENSIO. Faith, as you say, there's small choice in rotten
HORTENSIO. For both our sakes I would that word were true.
HORTENSIO. For fear, I promise you, if I look pale.
HORTENSIO. From all such devils, good Lord deliver us!
HORTENSIO. God-a-mercy, Grumio! Then he shall have no odds.
HORTENSIO. Gremio, 'tis now no time to vent our love.
HORTENSIO. Grumio, mum!                       [Coming forward]
HORTENSIO. Her father is Baptista Minola,
HORTENSIO. How now! what's the matter? My old friend Grumio and my
HORTENSIO. I am afraid, sir,
HORTENSIO. I do assure thee, father, so it is.
HORTENSIO. I know her answer.
HORTENSIO. I promis'd we would be contributors
HORTENSIO. I say a husband.
HORTENSIO. I think she'll sooner prove a soldier:
HORTENSIO. Madam, 'tis now in tune.
HORTENSIO. Madam, before you touch the instrument
HORTENSIO. Madam, my instrument's in tune.
HORTENSIO. Marry, sir, to get a husband for her sister.
HORTENSIO. Mates, maid! How mean you that? No mates for you,
HORTENSIO. Mistake no more; I am not Licio.
HORTENSIO. Mistress, what cheer?
HORTENSIO. My widow says thus she conceives her tale.
HORTENSIO. Now go thy ways; thou hast tam'd a curst shrow.
HORTENSIO. Now shall my friend Petruchio do me grace,
HORTENSIO. Peace, Grumio! It is the rival of my love. Petruchio,
HORTENSIO. Petruchio, go thy ways, the field is won.
HORTENSIO. Petruchio, patience; I am Grumio's pledge;
HORTENSIO. Petruchio, shall I then come roundly to thee
HORTENSIO. Petruchio, since we are stepp'd thus far in,
HORTENSIO. Quick proceeders, marry! Now tell me, I pray,
HORTENSIO. SO Will I, Signior Gremio; but a word, I pray. Though
HORTENSIO. Say as he says, or we shall never go.
HORTENSIO. See, how they kiss and court! Signior Lucentio,
HORTENSIO. She will not.
HORTENSIO. Signior Baptista, will you be so strange?
HORTENSIO. Signior Petruchio, fie! you are to blame.
HORTENSIO. Sir, a word ere you go.
HORTENSIO. Sir, let me be so bold as ask you,
HORTENSIO. Sir, to satisfy you in what I have said,
HORTENSIO. Sir, you say well, and well you do conceive;
HORTENSIO. Sirrah Biondello, go and entreat my wife
HORTENSIO. Sirrah, I will not bear these braves of thine.
HORTENSIO. Tailor, I'll pay thee for thy gown to-morrow;
HORTENSIO. Tarry, Petruchio, I must go with thee,
HORTENSIO. That she's the chosen of Signior Hortensio.
HORTENSIO. That's my office.
HORTENSIO. The bass is right; 'tis the base knave that jars.
HORTENSIO. The motion's good indeed, and be it so.
HORTENSIO. To her, widow!
HORTENSIO. Tush, Gremio! Though it pass your patience and mine to
HORTENSIO. Well, Petruchio, this has put me in heart.
HORTENSIO. Who shall begin?
HORTENSIO. Why, no; for she hath broke the lute to me.
HORTENSIO. Why, so this gallant will command the sun.
HORTENSIO. Would all the world but he had quite forsworn!
HORTENSIO. Yet read the gamut of Hortensio.
HORTENSIO. You'll leave his lecture when I am in tune?
HORTENSIUS. I'm weary of this charge, the gods can witness;
HORTENSIUS. It is against my heart.
HORTENSIUS. Lucius! What, do we meet together?
HORTENSIUS. Most true, he does.
HOSTESS
HOSTESS. A pair of stocks, you rogue!
HOSTESS. I know my remedy; I must go fetch the third-borough.
HOSTESS. You will not pay for the glasses you have burst?
HUNTSMEN
IRIS
IRIS. A contract of true love to celebrate,
IRIS. Ceres, most bounteous lady, thy rich leas
IRIS. Of her society
IRIS. You nymphs, call'd Naiads, of the wind'ring brooks,
ISIDORE'S SERVANT. A plague upon him, dog!
ISIDORE'S SERVANT. From Isidore: he humbly prays your speedy
ISIDORE'S SERVANT. It is so.
ISIDORE'S SERVANT. Your steward puts me off, my lord; and
ISIDORE'S SERVANT. [To VARRO'S SERVANT] There's the fool hangs on
JEWELLER. And rich. Here is a water, look ye.
JEWELLER. I have a jewel here-
JEWELLER. If he will touch the estimate. But for that-
JEWELLER. My lord, 'tis rated
JEWELLER. Nay, that's most fix'd.
JEWELLER. We'll bear, with your lordship.
JEWELLER. What, my lord! Dispraise?
JEWELLER. You know me, Apemantus?
JOSEPH. What, Grumio!
JUNO
JUNO. Honour, riches, marriage-blessing,
JUNO. How does my bounteous sister? Go with me
John. Brother, I'll go and bring it thee.                 Exit.
John. I could not send it- here it is again-
Jul. Go, get thee hence, for I will not away.
Jul. O comfortable friar! where is my lord?
KATHERINA, the shrew
KATHERINA.  [To BAPTISTA]  I pray you, sir, is it your will
KATHERINA. 'He that is giddy thinks the world turns round.'
KATHERINA. 'Tis passing good; I prithee let me have it.
KATHERINA. A dish that I do love to feed upon.
KATHERINA. A join'd-stool.
KATHERINA. A pretty peat! it is best
KATHERINA. A very mean meaning.
KATHERINA. A witty mother! witless else her son.
KATHERINA. And I am mean, indeed, respecting you.
KATHERINA. Are you content to stay?
KATHERINA. Asses are made to bear, and so are you.
KATHERINA. Ay, for a turtle, as he takes a buzzard.
KATHERINA. Ay, if the fool could find it where it lies.
KATHERINA. Call you me daughter? Now I promise you
KATHERINA. Faith, as cold as can be.
KATHERINA. Fie, fie! unknit that threatening unkind brow,
KATHERINA. Forward, I pray, since we have come so far,
KATHERINA. Gentlemen, forward to the bridal dinner.
KATHERINA. Go, fool, and whom thou keep'st command.
KATHERINA. Go, get thee gone, thou false deluding slave,
KATHERINA. Had I a glass I would.
KATHERINA. Her silence flouts me, and I'll be reveng'd.
KATHERINA. Husband, let's follow to see the end of this ado.
KATHERINA. I care not.
KATHERINA. I chafe you, if I tarry; let me go.
KATHERINA. I dare assure you, sir, 'tis almost two,
KATHERINA. I know it is the moon.
KATHERINA. I know it is the sun that shines so bright.
KATHERINA. I like it well; good Grumio, fetch it me.
KATHERINA. I never saw a better fashion'd gown,
KATHERINA. I pray you, husband, be not so disquiet;
KATHERINA. I pray you, let it stand.
KATHERINA. I thank you, sir.
KATHERINA. I will be angry; what hast thou to do?
KATHERINA. I' faith, sir, you shall never need to fear;
KATHERINA. I'll have no bigger; this doth fit the time,
KATHERINA. I'll see thee hang'd on Sunday first.
KATHERINA. If I be waspish, best beware my sting.
KATHERINA. In his tongue.
KATHERINA. It is my fashion, when I see a crab.
KATHERINA. Let me entreat you.
KATHERINA. Love me or love me not, I like the cap;
KATHERINA. Minion, thou liest. Is't not Hortensio?
KATHERINA. Mistress, how mean you that?
KATHERINA. Mov'd! in good time! Let him that mov'd you hither
KATHERINA. Nay, I will give thee a kiss; now pray thee, love, stay.
KATHERINA. Nay, then,
KATHERINA. No cock of mine: you crow too like a craven.
KATHERINA. No shame but mine; I must, forsooth, be forc'd
KATHERINA. No such jade as you, if me you mean.
KATHERINA. No, sir; God forbid; but asham'd to kiss.
KATHERINA. Now, if you love me, stay.
KATHERINA. O then, belike, you fancy riches more:
KATHERINA. Of all thy suitors here I charge thee tell
KATHERINA. Pardon, old father, my mistaking eyes,
KATHERINA. Patience, I pray you; 'twas a fault unwilling.
KATHERINA. So may you lose your arms.
KATHERINA. That I'll try.                    [She strikes him]
KATHERINA. The moon? The sun! It is not moonlight now.
KATHERINA. The more my wrong, the more his spite appears.
KATHERINA. Then both, or one, or anything thou wilt.
KATHERINA. Then, God be bless'd, it is the blessed sun;
KATHERINA. There is, there is.
KATHERINA. They sit conferring by the parlour fire.
KATHERINA. Too light for such a swain as you to catch;
KATHERINA. Well aim'd of such a young one.
KATHERINA. Well have you heard, but something hard of hearing:
KATHERINA. Well ta'en, and like a buzzard.
KATHERINA. What is your crest- a coxcomb?
KATHERINA. What is your sir, that you send for me?
KATHERINA. What, in the midst of the street?
KATHERINA. What, will you not suffer me? Nay, now I see
KATHERINA. Where did you study all this goodly speech?
KATHERINA. Why then the beef, and let the mustard rest.
KATHERINA. Why, and I trust I may go too, may I not?
KATHERINA. Why, sir, I trust I may have leave to speak;
KATHERINA. Would Katherine had never seen him though!
KATHERINA. Yes, keep you warm.
KATHERINA. Yet you are wither'd.
KATHERINA. Young budding virgin, fair and fresh and sweet,
KATHERINA. Yours, if you talk of tales; and so farewell.
KATHERINA. [Strikes her]  If that be jest, then an the rest was so.
LORD. 'Tis very true; thou didst it excellent.
LORD. Bid them come near.
LORD. Do you intend to stay with me to-night?
LORD. Even as a flatt'ring dream or worthless fancy.
LORD. Go, sirrah, take them to the buttery,
LORD. Heaven cease this idle humour in your honour!
LORD. Hence comes it that your kindred shuns your house,
LORD. Huntsman, I charge thee, tender well my hounds;
LORD. Madam, and nothing else; so lords call ladies.
LORD. Madam.
LORD. O monstrous beast, how like a swine he lies!
LORD. Take him up gently, and to bed with him;
LORD. Thou art a fool; if Echo were as fleet,
LORD. Thou art a lord, and nothing but a lord.
LORD. We'll show thee lo as she was a maid
LORD. What's here? One dead, or drunk?
LORD. With all my heart. This fellow I remember
LUCENTIO, son to Vincentio, in love with Bianca
LUCENTIO.  [Aside]  Well begun, Tranio.
LUCENTIO.  [Kneeling]  Pardon, sweet father.
LUCENTIO. 'Hic ibat' as I told you before- 'Simois' I am Lucentio-
LUCENTIO. 'Tis a wonder, by your leave, she will be tam'd so.
LUCENTIO. A hundred then.
LUCENTIO. Ah, Tranio, what a cruel father's he!
LUCENTIO. All but the bass.
LUCENTIO. And not a jot of Tranio in your mouth:
LUCENTIO. And then?
LUCENTIO. And what of all this?
LUCENTIO. And what of him, Tranio?
LUCENTIO. And what of him?
LUCENTIO. Are you so formal, sir? Well, I must wait,
LUCENTIO. At last, though long, our jarring notes agree;
LUCENTIO. Basta, content thee, for I have it full.
LUCENTIO. Biondello, what of that?
LUCENTIO. But a harsh hearing when women are froward.
LUCENTIO. But in the other's silence do I see
LUCENTIO. Faith, mistress, then I have no cause to stay.
LUCENTIO. Fiddler, forbear; you grow too forward, sir.
LUCENTIO. Gramercies, Tranio, well dost thou advise.
LUCENTIO. Gramercies, lad. Go forward; this contents;
LUCENTIO. Hark, Tranio, thou mayst hear Minerva speak!
LUCENTIO. Hear'st thou, Biondello?
LUCENTIO. Here is a wonder, if you talk of a wonder.
LUCENTIO. Here's Lucentio,
LUCENTIO. Here, madam:
LUCENTIO. I fly, Biondello; but they may chance to need the at
LUCENTIO. I have it, Tranio.
LUCENTIO. I may and will, if she be so contented.
LUCENTIO. I pray thee moralize them.
LUCENTIO. I read that I profess, 'The Art to Love.'
LUCENTIO. I thank thee for that gird, good Tranio.
LUCENTIO. I would your duty were as foolish too;
LUCENTIO. I'll have no halves; I'll bear it all myself.
LUCENTIO. It is. May it be done?
LUCENTIO. Look not pale, Bianca; thy father will not frown.
LUCENTIO. Love wrought these miracles. Bianca's love
LUCENTIO. Mistress, what's your opinion of your sister?
LUCENTIO. Mistrust it not- for sure, AEacides
LUCENTIO. Now, mistress, profit you in what you read?
LUCENTIO. O Tranio, till I found it to be true,
LUCENTIO. O, yes, I saw sweet beauty in her face,
LUCENTIO. Preposterous ass, that never read so far
LUCENTIO. Sir, give him head; I know he'll prove a jade.
LUCENTIO. Sirrah, come hither; 'tis no time to jest,
LUCENTIO. Spit in the hole, man, and tune again.
LUCENTIO. Tell me thine first.
LUCENTIO. That will I.
LUCENTIO. That will be never- tune your instrument.
LUCENTIO. Then we are rid of Licio.
LUCENTIO. Tranio, I saw her coral lips to move,
LUCENTIO. Tranio, be so because Lucentio loves;
LUCENTIO. Tranio, let's go.
LUCENTIO. Tranio, since for the great desire I had
LUCENTIO. Twenty crowns.
LUCENTIO. Well, go thy ways, old lad, for thou shalt ha't.
LUCENTIO. Were it not that my fellow schoolmaster
LUCENTIO. What say'st thou, Biondello?
LUCENTIO. Whate'er I read to her, I'll plead for you
LUCENTIO. While you, sweet dear, prove mistress of my heart.
LUCILIUS. Ay, my good lord, and she accepts of it.
LUCILIUS. Here, at your lordship's service.
LUCILIUS. Humbly I thank your lordship. Never may
LUCIUS' SERVANT. And Sir Philotus too!
LUCIUS' SERVANT. Ay, and I think one business does command us all;
LUCIUS' SERVANT. Ay, but the days are wax'd shorter with him;
LUCIUS' SERVANT. Five thousand mine.
LUCIUS' SERVANT. Flaminius! Sir, a word. Pray, is my lord ready to
LUCIUS' SERVANT. Ha! Is not that his steward muffled so?
LUCIUS' SERVANT. Mark how strange it shows
LUCIUS' SERVANT. Not yet.
LUCIUS' SERVANT. So much?
LUCIUS' SERVANT. welcome, good brother, what do you think the hour?
LUCIUS. Dost thou speak seriously, Servilius?
LUCIUS. Fie, no: do not believe it; he cannot want for money.
LUCIUS. Ha! What has he sent? I am so much endeared to that lord:
LUCIUS. How?
LUCIUS. I know his lordship is but merry with me;
LUCIUS. I'll look you out a good turn, Servilius.
LUCIUS. Servilius? You are kindly met, sir. Fare thee well; commend
LUCIUS. What a strange case was that! Now, before the gods, I am
LUCIUS. What a wicked beast was I to disfurnish myself against such
LUCIUS. Who, the Lord Timon? He is my very good friend, and an
LUCULLIUS. La, la, la, la! 'Nothing doubting' says he? Alas, good
LUCULLUS. Flaminius, I have noted thee always wise. Here's to thee.
LUCULLUS. Ha! Now I see thou art a fool, and fit for thy master.
LUCULLUS. I am right glad that his health is well, sir. And what
LUCULLUS. I have observed thee always for a towardly prompt spirit,
LUCULLUS. [Aside] One of Lord Timon's men? A gift, I warrant. Why,
Laur. Now, must I to the monument alone.
Laur. Unhappy fortune! By my brotherhood,
MARINERS
MARINERS. All lost! to prayers, to prayers! all lost!
MASTER OF A SHIP
MASTER. Boatswain!
MASTER. Good! Speak to th' mariners; fall to't yarely, or
MERCHANT. A most incomparable man; breath'd, as it were,
MERCHANT. Ay, Apemantus.
MERCHANT. He'll spare none.
MERCHANT. If traffic do it, the gods do it.
MERCHANT. No, my good lord; he speaks the common tongue,
MERCHANT. O, 'tis a worthy lord!
MERCHANT. O, pray let's see't. For the Lord Timon, sir?
MERCHANT. [Looking at the jewel] 'Tis a good form.
MESSENGER. 'Tis Alcibiades, and some twenty horse,
MESSENGER. All happiness to your honour!                  Exit
MESSENGER. Ay, my good lord. Five talents is his debt;
MESSENGER. Your honour's players, hearing your amendment,
MESSENGER. Your lordship ever binds him.
MIRANDA, daughter to Prospero
MIRANDA. 'Tis a villain, sir,
MIRANDA. 'Tis far off,
MIRANDA. Abhorred slave,
MIRANDA. Alack, for mercy!
MIRANDA. Alack, for pity!
MIRANDA. Alack, what trouble
MIRANDA. Alas, now; pray you,
MIRANDA. And mine, with my heart in't. And now farewell
MIRANDA. At mine unworthiness, that dare not offer
MIRANDA. Be of comfort;
MIRANDA. Beseech you, father!
MIRANDA. But that I do not.
MIRANDA. Certainly, sir, I can.
MIRANDA. Do you love me?
MIRANDA. Heavens thank you for't! And now, I pray you,
MIRANDA. How came we ashore?
MIRANDA. I am a fool
MIRANDA. I do not know
MIRANDA. I might call him
MIRANDA. I should sin
MIRANDA. If by your art, my dearest father, you have
MIRANDA. If you'll sit down,
MIRANDA. It would become me
MIRANDA. Miranda-O my father,
MIRANDA. More to know
MIRANDA. My affections
MIRANDA. My husband, then?
MIRANDA. Never till this day
MIRANDA. No wonder, sir;
MIRANDA. O dear father,
MIRANDA. O the heavens!
MIRANDA. O, good sir, I do!
MIRANDA. O, my heart bleeds
MIRANDA. O, the heavens!
MIRANDA. O, woe the day!
MIRANDA. O, wonder!
MIRANDA. Sir, are not you my father?
MIRANDA. Sir, have pity;
MIRANDA. Sir, most heedfully.
MIRANDA. Sweet lord, you play me false.
MIRANDA. The strangeness of your story put
MIRANDA. There's nothing ill can dwell in such a temple.
MIRANDA. What is't? a spirit?
MIRANDA. Wherefore did they not
MIRANDA. Why speaks my father so ungently? This
MIRANDA. Would I might
MIRANDA. Yes, for a score of kingdoms you should wrangle
MIRANDA. You have often
MIRANDA. You look wearily.
MIRANDA. Your tale, sir, would cure deafness.
Mon. Alas, my liege, my wife is dead to-night!
Mon. But I can give thee more;
Mon. O thou untaught! what manners is in this,
NATHANIEL. All things is ready. How near is our master?
NATHANIEL. How now, old lad!
NATHANIEL. Peter, didst ever see the like?
NATHANIEL. Welcome home, Grumio!
NICHOLAS. Fellow Grumio!
NYMPHS
OLD ATHENIAN. If in her marriage my consent be missing,
OLD ATHENIAN. Lord Timon, hear me speak.
OLD ATHENIAN. Most noble Timon, call the man before thee.
OLD ATHENIAN. Most noble lord,
OLD ATHENIAN. One only daughter have I, no kin else,
OLD ATHENIAN. She is young and apt:
OLD ATHENIAN. Therefore he will be, Timon.
OLD ATHENIAN. This fellow here, Lord Timon, this thy creature,
OLD ATHENIAN. Thou hast a servant nam'd Lucilius.
OLD ATHENIAN. Three talents on the present; in future, all.
Other Spirits attending on Prospero
PAGE
PAGE. Ay, and the time seems thirty unto me,
PAGE. Here, noble lord; what is thy will with her?
PAGE. How fares my noble lord?
PAGE. It is a kind of history.
PAGE. My husband and my lord, my lord and husband;
PAGE. My lord, 'tis but begun.
PAGE. No, my good lord, it is more pleasing stuff.
PAGE. No.
PAGE. Prithee, Apemantus, read me the superscription of these
PAGE. Thou wast whelp'd a dog, and thou shalt famish dog's death.
PAGE. Thrice noble lord, let me entreat of you
PAGE. [To the FOOL] Why, how now, Captain? What do you in this wise
PAINTER. 'Tis a good piece.
PAINTER. 'Tis common.
PAINTER. 'Tis conceiv'd to scope.
PAINTER. A picture, sir. When comes your book forth?
PAINTER. A piece of painting, which I do beseech
PAINTER. Ay, marry, what of these?
PAINTER. How shall I understand you?
PAINTER. How this lord is followed!
PAINTER. I am glad y'are well.
PAINTER. I know them both; th' other's a jeweller.
PAINTER. I saw them speak together.
PAINTER. Indifferent.
PAINTER. It is a pretty mocking of the life.
PAINTER. It wears, sir, as it grows.
PAINTER. Look, moe!
PAINTER. The gods preserve ye!
PAINTER. Y'are a dog.
PAINTER. You are rapt, sir, in some work, some dedication
PEDANT. Alas, sir, it is worse for me than so!
PEDANT. Away, away, mad ass! His name is Lucentio; and he is mine
PEDANT. Ay, sir, in Pisa have I often been,
PEDANT. Ay, sir; so his mother says, if I may believe her.
PEDANT. Ay, what else? And, but I be deceived,
PEDANT. God save you, sir!
PEDANT. He's within, sir, but not to be spoken withal.
PEDANT. Help, son! help, Signior Baptista!     Exit from above
PEDANT. I know him not, but I have heard of him,
PEDANT. I warrant you. But, sir, here comes your boy;
PEDANT. Keep your hundred pounds to yourself; he shall need none so
PEDANT. Lay hands on the villain; I believe 'a means to cozen
PEDANT. My life, sir! How, I pray? For that goes hard.
PEDANT. O, sir, I do; and will repute you ever
PEDANT. Of Mantua.
PEDANT. Sir, at the farthest for a week or two;
PEDANT. Soft, son!
PEDANT. Swear if thou dar'st.
PEDANT. Thou liest: his father is come from Padua, and here looking
PEDANT. What's he that knocks as he would beat down the gate?
PETER. He kills her in her own humour.
PETER. I.
PETRUCHIO, a gentleman of Verona, a suitor to Katherina
PETRUCHIO.  [Aside]  Eat it up all, Hortensio, if thou lovest me.-
PETRUCHIO.  [Aside]  Hortensio, say thou wilt see the tailor paid.-
PETRUCHIO.  [To VINCENTIO]  Why, how now, gentleman!
PETRUCHIO. 'A has a little gall'd me, I confess;
PETRUCHIO. 'Tis burnt; and so is all the meat.
PETRUCHIO. 'Tis with cares.
PETRUCHIO. A combless cock, so Kate will be my hen.
PETRUCHIO. A good swift simile, but something currish.
PETRUCHIO. A herald, Kate? O, put me in thy books!
PETRUCHIO. A hundred marks, my Kate does put her down.
PETRUCHIO. A match! 'tis done.
PETRUCHIO. A senseless villain! Good Hortensio,
PETRUCHIO. A whoreson, beetle-headed, flap-ear'd knave!
PETRUCHIO. Alas, good Kate, I will not burden thee!
PETRUCHIO. Am I not wise?
PETRUCHIO. And for that dowry, I'll assure her of
PETRUCHIO. And yet I come not well.
PETRUCHIO. And you, good sir! Pray, have you not a daughter
PETRUCHIO. Ay, there's the villainy.
PETRUCHIO. Ay, to the proof, as mountains are for winds,
PETRUCHIO. Be patient, gentlemen. I choose her for myself;
PETRUCHIO. Born in Verona, old Antonio's son.
PETRUCHIO. Come on, I say; and first begin with her.
PETRUCHIO. Come on, a God's name; once more toward our father's.
PETRUCHIO. Come, Kate, we'll to bed.
PETRUCHIO. Come, come, you wasp; i' faith, you are too angry.
PETRUCHIO. Come, go along, and see the truth hereof;
PETRUCHIO. Come, where be these gallants? Who's at home?
PETRUCHIO. Conceives by me! How likes Hortensio that?
PETRUCHIO. Did ever Dian so become a grove
PETRUCHIO. Do, good old grandsire, and withal make known
PETRUCHIO. Father, 'tis thus: yourself and all the world
PETRUCHIO. Father, and wife, and gentlemen, adieu.
PETRUCHIO. First kiss me, Kate, and we will.
PETRUCHIO. Gentlemen and friends, I thank you for your pains.
PETRUCHIO. Go, fetch them hither; if they deny to come.
PETRUCHIO. Go, rascals, go and fetch my supper in.
PETRUCHIO. Go, take it up unto thy master's use.
PETRUCHIO. Good sooth, even thus; therefore ha' done with words;
PETRUCHIO. Grumio, my horse.
PETRUCHIO. Happily met; the happier for thy son.
PETRUCHIO. Here, sir! here, sir! here, sir! here, sir!
PETRUCHIO. Hortensio, peace! thou know'st not gold's effect.
PETRUCHIO. Hortensio, to what end are all these words?
PETRUCHIO. How but well, sir? how but well?
PETRUCHIO. How fares my Kate? What, sweeting, all amort?
PETRUCHIO. How! She's busy, and she cannot come!
PETRUCHIO. I am content you shall entreat me stay;
PETRUCHIO. I am content.
PETRUCHIO. I hope better.
PETRUCHIO. I know her father, though I know not her;
PETRUCHIO. I know she is an irksome brawling scold;
PETRUCHIO. I must away to-day before night come.
PETRUCHIO. I pray you do.             Exeunt all but PETRUCHIO
PETRUCHIO. I say it is the moon that shines so bright.
PETRUCHIO. I say it is the moon.
PETRUCHIO. I say she shall. And first begin with her.
PETRUCHIO. I see you do not mean to part with her;
PETRUCHIO. I swear I'll cuff you, if you strike again.
PETRUCHIO. I tell thee, Kate, 'twas burnt and dried away,
PETRUCHIO. Is not this well? Come, my sweet Kate:
PETRUCHIO. It cannot be.
PETRUCHIO. It is extempore, from my mother wit.
PETRUCHIO. It may not be.
PETRUCHIO. It shall be seven ere I go to horse.
PETRUCHIO. Katherine, I charge thee, tell these headstrong women
PETRUCHIO. Marry, and did; but if you be rememb'red,
PETRUCHIO. Marry, peace it bodes, and love, and quiet life,
PETRUCHIO. Marry, so I mean, sweet Katherine, in thy bed.
PETRUCHIO. My remedy is then to pluck it out.
PETRUCHIO. Nay, I told you your son was well beloved in Padua. Do
PETRUCHIO. Nay, I will win my wager better yet,
PETRUCHIO. Nay, come, Kate, come; you must not look so sour.
PETRUCHIO. Nay, hear you, Kate- in sooth, you scape not so.
PETRUCHIO. Nay, that you shall not; since you have begun,
PETRUCHIO. Nay, then you lie; it is the blessed sun.
PETRUCHIO. No, not a whit; I find you passing gentle.
PETRUCHIO. Not I, believe me; thus I'll visit her.
PETRUCHIO. Not her that chides, sir, at any hand, I pray.
PETRUCHIO. Nothing but sit and sit, and eat and eat!
PETRUCHIO. Now by my mother's son, and that's myself,
PETRUCHIO. Now knock when I bid you, sirrah villain!
PETRUCHIO. Now, by Saint George, I am too young for you.
PETRUCHIO. Now, by the world, it is a lusty wench;
PETRUCHIO. Now, for my life, Hortensio fears his widow.
PETRUCHIO. O Kate, content thee; prithee be not angry.
PETRUCHIO. O monstrous arrogance! Thou liest, thou thread, thou
PETRUCHIO. O, ho! entreat her!
PETRUCHIO. O, pardon me, Signior Gremio! I would fain be doing.
PETRUCHIO. O, slow-wing'd turtle, shall a buzzard take thee?
PETRUCHIO. Padua affords nothing but what is kind.
PETRUCHIO. Peace, sirrah!
PETRUCHIO. Petruchio is my name, Antonio's son,
PETRUCHIO. Pluck up thy spirits, look cheerfully upon me.
PETRUCHIO. Prithee, Kate, let's stand aside and see the end of this
PETRUCHIO. Proceed.
PETRUCHIO. Read it.
PETRUCHIO. Roundly replied.
PETRUCHIO. She hath prevented me. Here, Signior Tranio,
PETRUCHIO. Should be! should- buzz!
PETRUCHIO. Signior Baptista, my business asketh haste,
PETRUCHIO. Signior Hortensio, 'twixt such friends as we
PETRUCHIO. Signior Hortensio, come you to part the fray?
PETRUCHIO. Sir, here's the door; this is Lucentio's house;
PETRUCHIO. Sir, sir, the first's for me; let her go by.
PETRUCHIO. Sir, understand you this of me, in sooth:
PETRUCHIO. Sirrah, be gone, or talk not, I advise you.
PETRUCHIO. Spoke like an officer- ha' to thee, lad.
PETRUCHIO. Such wind as scatters young men through the world
PETRUCHIO. Tedious it were to tell, and harsh to hear;
PETRUCHIO. The fouler fortune mine, and there an end.
PETRUCHIO. The poorest service is repaid with thanks;
PETRUCHIO. Then show it me.
PETRUCHIO. They shall go forward, Kate, at thy command.
PETRUCHIO. Thou hast hit it. Come, sit on me.
PETRUCHIO. Thus have I politicly begun my reign,
PETRUCHIO. Thy gown? Why, ay. Come, tailor, let us see't.
PETRUCHIO. To her, Kate!
PETRUCHIO. Twenty crowns?
PETRUCHIO. Verona, for a while I take my leave,
PETRUCHIO. Very well mended. Kiss him for that, good widow.
PETRUCHIO. Villain, I say, knock me at this gate,
PETRUCHIO. Villain, I say, knock me here soundly.
PETRUCHIO. Well, I say no; and therefore, for assurance,
PETRUCHIO. Well, come, my Kate; we will unto your father's
PETRUCHIO. Well, forward, forward! thus the bowl should run,
PETRUCHIO. Well, sir, in brief, the gown is not for me.
PETRUCHIO. Were it better, I should rush in thus.
PETRUCHIO. What is his name?
PETRUCHIO. What, art thou asham'd of me?
PETRUCHIO. What, with my tongue in your tail? Nay, come again,
PETRUCHIO. What, you mean my face?
PETRUCHIO. What?
PETRUCHIO. When you are gentle, you shall have one too,
PETRUCHIO. Where be these knaves? What, no man at door
PETRUCHIO. Where is your sister, and Hortensio's wife?
PETRUCHIO. Who brought it?
PETRUCHIO. Who knows not where a wasp does wear his sting?
PETRUCHIO. Whose tongue?
PETRUCHIO. Why came I hither but to that intent?
PETRUCHIO. Why, here's no crab; and therefore look not sour.
PETRUCHIO. Why, how now, Kate, I hope thou art not mad!
PETRUCHIO. Why, sir, what's your conceit in that?
PETRUCHIO. Why, that is nothing; for I tell you, father,
PETRUCHIO. Why, then, let's home again. Come, sirrah, let's away.
PETRUCHIO. Why, there's a wench! Come on, and kiss me, Kate.
PETRUCHIO. Why, this was moulded on a porringer;
PETRUCHIO. Why, thou say'st true; it is a paltry cap,
PETRUCHIO. Why, true; he means to make a puppet of thee.
PETRUCHIO. Why, what's a moveable?
PETRUCHIO. Will I live?
PETRUCHIO. Will it not be?
PETRUCHIO. Women are made to bear, and so are you.
PETRUCHIO. Worse and worse; she will not come! O vile,
PETRUCHIO. YOU are very sensible, and yet you miss my sense:
PETRUCHIO. YOU peasant swain! you whoreson malt-horse drudge!
PETRUCHIO. You lie, in faith, for you are call'd plain Kate,
PETRUCHIO. You wrong me, Signior Gremio; give me leave.
PHILIP. How now, Grumio!
PHILOTUS. Good day at once.
PHILOTUS. I am of your fear for that.
PHILOTUS. I wonder on't; he was wont to shine at seven.
PHILOTUS. Is not my lord seen yet?
PHILOTUS. Labouring for nine.
PLAYER. Fear not, my lord; we can contain ourselves,
PLAYER. I think 'twas Soto that your honour means.
PLAYER. So please your lordship to accept our duty.
PLAYERS
PLAYERS. We thank your honour.
POET. A thing slipp'd idly from me.
POET. Admirable. How this grace
POET. Art not one?
POET. Ay, that's well known.
POET. Good day, sir.
POET. How now, philosopher!
POET. I have not seen you long; how goes the world?
POET. I will say of it
POET. I will unbolt to you.
POET. Nay, sir, but hear me on.
POET. Sir, I have upon a high and pleasant hill
POET. So 'tis; this comes off well and excellent.
POET. That's not feign'd- he is so.
POET. The senators of Athens- happy man!
POET. Then I lie not.
POET. Upon the heels of my presentment, sir.
POET. When Fortune in her shift and change of mood
POET. When we for recompense have prais'd the vile,
POET. Yes.
POET. You see this confluence, this great flood of visitors.
POET. [Presenting his poem] Vouchsafe my labour, and long live your
PROSPERO, the right Duke of Milan
PROSPERO.  [Aside to ARIEL]  Bravely, my diligence. Thou
PROSPERO.  [Aside to ARIEL]  My tricksy spirit!
PROSPERO.  [Aside]  Fair encounter
PROSPERO.  [Aside]  Honest lord,
PROSPERO.  [Aside]  I had forgot that foul conspiracy
PROSPERO.  [Aside]  It goes on, I see,
PROSPERO.  [Aside]  It works.  [To FERDINAND]  Come on.-
PROSPERO.  [Aside]  Poor worm, thou art infected!
PROSPERO.  [Aside]  Praise in departing.
PROSPERO.  [Aside]  The Duke of Milan
PROSPERO.  [To ARIEL]  Thou shalt be as free
PROSPERO.  [To FERDINAND]  Come, follow.  [To MIRANDA]
PROSPERO. 'Tis new to thee.
PROSPERO. 'Tis time
PROSPERO. A devil, a born devil, on whose nature
PROSPERO. And mine shall.
PROSPERO. Ariel, thy charge
PROSPERO. As great to me as late; and, supportable
PROSPERO. At least two glasses. The time 'twixt six and now
PROSPERO. Ay, with a twink.
PROSPERO. Be conected;
PROSPERO. Before the time be out? No more!
PROSPERO. Behold, Sir King,
PROSPERO. Being once perfected how to grant suits,
PROSPERO. Both, both, my girl.
PROSPERO. Bravely the figure of this harpy hast thou
PROSPERO. But are they, Ariel, safe?
PROSPERO. But as 'tis,
PROSPERO. By Providence divine.
PROSPERO. By what? By any other house, or person?
PROSPERO. Come forth, I say; there's other business for thee.
PROSPERO. Come on; obey.
PROSPERO. Come, with a thought. I thank thee, Ariel; come.
PROSPERO. Dearly, my delicate Ariel. Do not approach
PROSPERO. Do so; and after two days
PROSPERO. Dost thou forget
PROSPERO. Dost thou think so, spirit?
PROSPERO. Dull thing, I say so; he, that Caliban
PROSPERO. Fairly spoke.
PROSPERO. First, noble friend,
PROSPERO. Follow me.
PROSPERO. For this, be sure, to-night thou shalt have cramps,
PROSPERO. Fury, Fury! There, Tyrant, there! Hark, hark!
PROSPERO. Go make thyself like a nymph o' th' sea; be subject
PROSPERO. Go to; away!
PROSPERO. Hag-seed, hence!
PROSPERO. Hast thou, spirit,
PROSPERO. He is as disproportioned in his manners
PROSPERO. Hear a little further,
PROSPERO. Hence! Hang not on my garments.
PROSPERO. Hey, Mountain, hey!
PROSPERO. How now, moody?
PROSPERO. How? the best?
PROSPERO. I am woe for't, sir.
PROSPERO. I did say so,
PROSPERO. I pray thee, mark me.
PROSPERO. I rather think
PROSPERO. I'll deliver all;
PROSPERO. If I have too austerely punish'd you,
PROSPERO. If thou more murmur'st, I will rend an oak
PROSPERO. In this last tempest. I perceive these lords
PROSPERO. Know thus far forth:
PROSPERO. Let them be hunted soundly. At this hour
PROSPERO. Look thou be true; do not give dalliance
PROSPERO. Mark but the badges of these men, my lords,
PROSPERO. Mark his condition, and th' event, then tell me
PROSPERO. My brave spirit!
PROSPERO. My brother and thy uncle, call'd Antonio-
PROSPERO. No harm.
PROSPERO. No, wench; it eats and sleeps and hath such senses
PROSPERO. No.
PROSPERO. Now I arise.                    [Puts on his mantle]
PROSPERO. Now does my project gather to a head;
PROSPERO. Now the condition:
PROSPERO. O, a cherubin
PROSPERO. O, was she so? I must
PROSPERO. Of the King's ship,
PROSPERO. Say again, where didst thou leave these varlets?
PROSPERO. Shake it off. Come on,
PROSPERO. Silence! One word more
PROSPERO. Sir, I invite your Highness and your train
PROSPERO. Sir, my liege,
PROSPERO. So glad of this as they I cannot be,
PROSPERO. So, slave; hence!                       Exit CALIBAN
PROSPERO. Soft, Sir! one word more.
PROSPERO. Spirit,
PROSPERO. Spirits, which by mine art
PROSPERO. Sweet now, silence;
PROSPERO. The fringed curtains of thine eye advance,
PROSPERO. The hour's now come;
PROSPERO. Then, as my gift, and thine own acquisition
PROSPERO. There, sir, stop;
PROSPERO. This blue-ey'd hag was hither brought with child,
PROSPERO. This was well done, my bird.
PROSPERO. Thou and thy meaner fellows your last service
PROSPERO. Thou dost; and think'st it much to tread the ooze
PROSPERO. Thou hadst, and more, Miranda. But how is it
PROSPERO. Thou hast. Where was she born?
PROSPERO. Thou liest, malignant thing. Hast thou forgot
PROSPERO. Thou most lying slave,
PROSPERO. Thou poisonous slave, got by the devil himself
PROSPERO. Thy mother was a piece of virtue, and
PROSPERO. To have no screen between this part he play'd
PROSPERO. Twelve year since, Miranda, twelve year since,
PROSPERO. Well demanded, wench!
PROSPERO. Well!
PROSPERO. What, I say,
PROSPERO. Why, that's my dainty Ariel! I shall miss thee;
PROSPERO. Why, that's my spirit!
PROSPERO. Ye elves of hills, brooks, standing lakes, and
PROSPERO. You do look, my son, in a mov'd sort,
PROSPERO. You do yet taste
PROSPERO. You'd be king o' the isle, sirrah?
Page. O Lord, they fight! I will go call the watch.
Page. [aside] I am almost afraid to stand alone
Par. Give me thy torch, boy. Hence, and stand aloof.
Par. I do defy thy, conjuration
Par. O, I am slain! If thou be merciful,
Par. Sweet flower, with flowers thy bridal bed I strew
Par. This is that banish'd haughty Montague
Prince. A glooming peace this morning with it brings.
Prince. Come, Montague; for thou art early up
Prince. Give me the letter. I will look on it.
Prince. Look, and thou shalt see.
Prince. Seal up the mouth of outrage for a while,
Prince. Search, seek, and know how this foul murder comes.
Prince. Then say it once what thou dost know in this.
Prince. This letter doth make good the friar's words,
Prince. We still have known thee for a holy man.
Prince. What fear is this which startles in our ears?
Prince. What misadventure is so early up,
REAPERS
Rom. Give me that mattock and the wrenching iron.
Rom. I must indeed; and therefore came I hither.
Rom. In faith, I will. Let me peruse this face.
Rom. So shalt thou show me friendship. Take thou that.
Rom. Thou detestable maw, thou womb of death,
Rom. Wilt thou provoke me? Then have at thee, boy!
SEBASTIAN, his brother
SEBASTIAN.  [Aside to ANTONIO]  I say, to-night; no more.
SEBASTIAN.  [Aside to ANTONIO]  The next advantage
SEBASTIAN.  [Aside]  The devil speaks in him.
SEBASTIAN. 'Twas a sweet marriage, and we prosper well in
SEBASTIAN. A dollar.
SEBASTIAN. A living drollery. Now I will believe
SEBASTIAN. A match!
SEBASTIAN. A most high miracle!
SEBASTIAN. A pox o' your throat, you bawling, blasphemous,
SEBASTIAN. An it had not fall'n flat-long.
SEBASTIAN. As if it had lungs, and rotten ones.
SEBASTIAN. As many vouch'd rarities are.
SEBASTIAN. Ay, and a subtle; as he most learnedly
SEBASTIAN. Ay, or very falsely pocket up his report.
SEBASTIAN. Bate, I beseech you, widow Dido.
SEBASTIAN. But one fiend at a time,
SEBASTIAN. But, for your conscience-
SEBASTIAN. Claribel.
SEBASTIAN. Do so: to ebb,
SEBASTIAN. Done. The wager?
SEBASTIAN. Foul weather?
SEBASTIAN. Ha, ha!
SEBASTIAN. He hath rais'd the wall, and houses too.
SEBASTIAN. He is drunk now; where had he wine?
SEBASTIAN. He receives comfort like cold porridge.
SEBASTIAN. He will be talking.
SEBASTIAN. He's gone.
SEBASTIAN. I am out of patience.
SEBASTIAN. I do; and surely
SEBASTIAN. I have no hope
SEBASTIAN. I remember
SEBASTIAN. I think he will carry this island home in his
SEBASTIAN. Let's take leave of him.
SEBASTIAN. Look, he's winding up the watch of his wit; by
SEBASTIAN. Methinks I do.
SEBASTIAN. No marrying 'mong his subjects?
SEBASTIAN. No matter, since
SEBASTIAN. No; he doth but mistake the truth totally.
SEBASTIAN. O, but one word.                  [They talk apart]
SEBASTIAN. Of that there's none, or little.
SEBASTIAN. One-Tell.
SEBASTIAN. Or docks, or mallows.
SEBASTIAN. Or stole it, rather.
SEBASTIAN. Please you, sir,
SEBASTIAN. Prithee say on.
SEBASTIAN. Save his Majesty!
SEBASTIAN. Scape being drunk for want of wine.
SEBASTIAN. Sir, you may thank yourself for this great loss,
SEBASTIAN. So, you're paid.
SEBASTIAN. The old cock.
SEBASTIAN. Thou dost snore distinctly;
SEBASTIAN. Thy case, dear friend,
SEBASTIAN. Very well.
SEBASTIAN. We would so, and then go a-bat-fowling.
SEBASTIAN. Well, I am standing water.
SEBASTIAN. What a strange drowsiness possesses them!
SEBASTIAN. What if he had said 'widower Aeneas' too?
SEBASTIAN. What stuff is this! How say you?
SEBASTIAN. What, art thou waking?
SEBASTIAN. Whiles we stood here securing your repose,
SEBASTIAN. Why
SEBASTIAN. Why, how now, Stephano!
SEBASTIAN. With an eye of green in't.
SEBASTIAN. Yet he would be king on't.
SEBASTIAN. Yet-
SEBASTIAN. You have taken it wiselier than I meant you
SEBASTIAN. You were kneel'd to, and importun'd otherwise
SECOND HUNTSMAN. He breathes, my lord. Were he not warm'd with ale,
SECOND HUNTSMAN. It would seem strange unto him when he wak'd.
SECOND LORD. Away, unpeaceable dog, or I'll spurn thee hence.
SECOND LORD. Fare thee well, fare thee well.
SECOND LORD. He pours it out: Plutus, the god of gold,
SECOND LORD. Joy had the like conception in our eyes,
SECOND LORD. Let it flow this way, my good lord.
SECOND LORD. Long may he live in fortunes! shall we in?
SECOND LORD. Our horses!
SECOND LORD. So infinitely endear'd-
SECOND LORD. Thou art going to Lord Timon's feast.
SECOND LORD. Why, Apemantus?
SECOND LORD. With more than common thanks I will receive it.
SECOND SERVANT. Dost thou love pictures? We will fetch thee
SECOND SERVANT. May it please vour honour, Lord Lucius, out of his
SECOND SERVANT. O, this is it that makes your servants droop!
SECOND SERVANT. Will't please your Mightiness to wash your hands?
SECOND SERVANT. Will't please your honour taste of these conserves?
SECOND STRANGER. Ay, too well.
SECOND STRANGER. But believe you this, my lord, that not long ago
SECOND STRANGER. I tell you, denied, my lord.
SECOND VARRO'S SERVANT. By your leave, sir.
SEMPRONIUS. How! Have they denied him?
SEMPRONIUS. Must he needs trouble me in't? Hum! 'Bove all others?
SENATOR. And late, five thousand. To Varro and to Isidore
SENATOR. Get on your cloak and haste you to Lord Timon;
SENATOR. Go.                                            Exeunt
SENATOR. Take the bonds along with you,
SERVANT. An't please your honour, players
SERVANT. Excellent! Your lordship's a goodly villain. The devil
SERVANT. Here's my lord.
SERVANT. Here, my lord, in readiness.
SERVANT. I have told my lord of you; he is coming down to you.
SERVANT. Mistress, your father prays you leave your books
SERVANT. My lord,
SERVANT. My lord, there are certain nobles of the Senate newly
SERVANT. Please you, my lord, there are certain ladies most
SERVANT. Please your lordship, here is the wine.
SERVANT. There comes with them a forerunner, my lord, which bears
SERVANTS
SERVANTS. My lord! my lord!
SERVILIUS. But in the mean time he wants less, my lord.
SERVILIUS. Has only sent his present occasion now, my lord,
SERVILIUS. May it please your honour, my lord hath sent-
SERVILIUS. See, by good hap, yonder's my lord; I have sweat to see
SERVILIUS. Upon my soul, 'tis true, sir.
SERVILIUS. Yes, sir, I shall.
SLY. 'Tis a very excellent piece of work, madam lady
SLY. 'Tis much. Servants, leave me and her alone.
SLY. Al'ce madam, or Joan madam?
SLY. Am I a lord and have I such a lady?
SLY. Are you my wife, and will not call me husband?
SLY. Ay, it stands so that I may hardly tarry so long. But I would
SLY. Ay, the woman's maid of the house.
SLY. For God's sake, a pot of small ale.
SLY. I am Christophero Sly; call not me 'honour' nor 'lordship.' I
SLY. I know it well. What must I call her?
SLY. I thank thee; thou shalt not lose by it.
SLY. I'll pheeze you, in faith.
SLY. Madam wife, they say that I have dream'd
SLY. Marry, I fare well; for here is cheer enough.
SLY. Marry, I will; let them play it. Is not a comonty a
SLY. No, not a denier. Go by, Saint Jeronimy, go to thy cold bed
SLY. Now, Lord be thanked for my good amends!
SLY. These fifteen years! by my fay, a goodly nap.
SLY. Third, or fourth, or fifth borough, I'll answer him by law.
SLY. Well, we'll see't. Come, madam wife, sit by my side and let
SLY. What, household stuff?
SLY. What, would you make me mad? Am not I Christopher Sly, old
SLY. Y'are a baggage; the Slys are no rogues. Look in the
SLY. Yes, by Saint Anne do I. A good matter, surely; comes there
STEPHANO, a drunken butler
STEPHANO.  [Passing the bottle]  Here, kiss the book. Though
STEPHANO. At thy request, monster, I will do reason, any
STEPHANO. Ay, and this.
STEPHANO. Ay, on mine honour.
STEPHANO. Be you quiet, monster. Mistress line, is not
STEPHANO. Come on your ways; open your mouth; here is
STEPHANO. Come on, then; down, and swear.
STEPHANO. Come, kiss.
STEPHANO. Come, swear to that; kiss the book. I will
STEPHANO. Didst thou not say he lied?
STEPHANO. Do I so? Take thou that.  [Beats him]  As you like
STEPHANO. Doth thy other mouth call me? Mercy, mercy!
STEPHANO. Drink, servant-monster, when I bid thee; thy
STEPHANO. Every man shift for all the rest, and let no man
STEPHANO. Four legs and two voices; a most delicate monster!
STEPHANO. Give me thy hand. I do begin to have bloody
STEPHANO. Give me thy hand; I am sorry I beat thee; but
STEPHANO. He that dies pays all debts. I defy thee. Mercy
STEPHANO. He's in his fit now, and does not talk after the
STEPHANO. Here; swear then how thou escap'dst.
STEPHANO. How didst thou scape? How cam'st thou hither?
STEPHANO. How now shall this be compass'd? Canst thou
STEPHANO. I prithee now, lead the way without any more
STEPHANO. I shall no more to sea, to sea,
STEPHANO. I should have been a sore one, then.
STEPHANO. I thank thee for that jest; here's a garment
STEPHANO. I will fetch off my bottle, though I be o'er
STEPHANO. If thou beest Trinculo, come forth; I'll pull
STEPHANO. If thou beest a man, show thyself in thy
STEPHANO. Is it so brave a lass?
STEPHANO. Lead, monster; we'll follow. I would I could see
STEPHANO. Marry will I; kneel and repeat it; I will stand,
STEPHANO. Monster, I will kill this man; his daughter and I
STEPHANO. Monster, lay-to your fingers; help to bear this
STEPHANO. Monster, your fairy, which you say is a harmless
STEPHANO. Moon-calf, speak once in thy life, if thou beest
STEPHANO. Mum, then, and no more. Proceed.
STEPHANO. My man-monster hath drown'd his tongue in
STEPHANO. No, monster, not I.
STEPHANO. Now, forward with your tale.-Prithee stand
STEPHANO. O brave monster! Lead the way.                Exeunt
STEPHANO. O, touch me not; I am not Stephano, but a
STEPHANO. Out o' th' moon, I do assure thee; I was the Man
STEPHANO. Prithee, do not turn me about; my stomach is not
STEPHANO. Put off that gown, Trinculo; by this hand, I'll
STEPHANO. So is mine. Do you hear, monster? If I should
STEPHANO. Stand farther. Come, proceed.
STEPHANO. Tell not me-when the butt is out we will drink
STEPHANO. That shall be by and by; I remember the story.
STEPHANO. That's most certain.
STEPHANO. The whole butt, man; my cellar is in a rock by
STEPHANO. There is not only disgrace and dishonour in
STEPHANO. This is some monster of the isle with four legs,
STEPHANO. This will prove a brave kingdom to me, where I
STEPHANO. Trinculo, if you trouble him any more in's tale,
STEPHANO. Trinculo, keep a good tongue in your head; if
STEPHANO. Trinculo, run into no further danger; interrupt
STEPHANO. We'll not run, Monsieur Monster.
STEPHANO. What is this same?
STEPHANO. What's the matter? Have we devils here? Do you
TAILOR.  [Reads]  'Imprimis, a loose-bodied gown'-
TAILOR.  [Reads]  'The sleeves curiously cut.'
TAILOR.  [Reads]  'With a small compass'd cape'-
TAILOR.  [Reads]  'With a trunk sleeve'-
TAILOR. But did you not request to have it cut?
TAILOR. But how did you desire it should be made?
TAILOR. I have.
TAILOR. She says your worship means to make a puppet of her.
TAILOR. This is true that I say; an I had thee in place where, thou
TAILOR. Why, here is the note of the fashion to testify.
TAILOR. You bid me make it orderly and well,
TAILOR. Your worship is deceiv'd; the gown is made
THIRD LORD. I promise you, my lord, you mov'd me much.
THIRD LORD. O, I beseech you pardon me, my lord, in that.
THIRD LORD. O, he's the very soul of bounty!
THIRD SERVANT. O, this it is that makes your lady mourn!
THIRD SERVANT. Or Daphne roaming through a thorny wood,
THIRD SERVANT. Please you, my lord, that honourable gentleman, Lord
THIRD SERVANT. What raiment will your honour wear to-day?
THIRD SERVANT. Why, sir, you know no house nor no such maid,
THIRD STRANGER. Religion groans at it.
TIMON. A mere satiety of commendations;
TIMON. All to you. Lights, more lights!
TIMON. An thou shouldst, thou'dst anger ladies.
TIMON. And now I remember, my lord, you gave good words the other
TIMON. And so am I to you.
TIMON. And, in some sort, these wants of mine are crown'd
TIMON. Attends he here, or no? Lucilius!
TIMON. Captain Alcibiades, your heart's in the field now.
TIMON. Come, sermon me no further.
TIMON. Commend me to him; I will send his ransom;
TIMON. Contain thyself, good friend.
TIMON. Do so, my friends.
TIMON. Does she love him?
TIMON. Dues! Whence are you?
TIMON. Fie, th'art a churl; ye have got a humour there
TIMON. Flavius!
TIMON. Freely, good father.
TIMON. Give me breath.
TIMON. Go to my steward.
TIMON. Go to;
TIMON. Go you, sir, to the senators,
TIMON. Good morrow to thee, gentle Apemantus!
TIMON. How dost thou like this jewel, Apemantus?
TIMON. How lik'st thou this picture, Apemantus?
TIMON. How shall she be endow'd,
TIMON. I have so; what of him?
TIMON. I pray let them be admitted.
TIMON. I shall accept them fairly. Let the presents
TIMON. I take all and your several visitations
TIMON. I take no heed of thee. Th'art an Athenian, therefore
TIMON. I thank you; you shall hear from me anon;
TIMON. I will dispatch you severally- you to Lord Lucius; to Lord
TIMON. I'll hunt with him; and let them be receiv'd,
TIMON. Imprison'd is he, say you?
TIMON. Is't true? Can't be?
TIMON. Ladies! What are their wills?
TIMON. Ladies, there is an idle banquet attends you;
TIMON. Let all my land be sold.
TIMON. Look who comes here; will you be chid?
TIMON. Love you the maid?
TIMON. Mine honest friend,
TIMON. My hand to thee; mine honour on my promise.
TIMON. My lord, in heart! and let the health go round.
TIMON. Nay, an you begin to rail on society once, I am sworn not to
TIMON. Nay, my lords, ceremony was but devis'd at first
TIMON. Near! Why then, another time I'll hear thee. I prithee let's
TIMON. Noble Ventidius! Well.
TIMON. Now, Apemantus, if thou wert not sullen
TIMON. O my friends,
TIMON. O, Apemantus, you are welcome.
TIMON. O, by no means,
TIMON. O, no doubt, my good friends, but the gods themselves have
TIMON. Painting is welcome.
TIMON. Pray entertain them; give them guide to us.
TIMON. Prithee no more.
TIMON. Ready for his friends.
TIMON. Right welcome, sir!
TIMON. So soon as dinner's done we'll forth again,
TIMON. That's a deed thou't die for.
TIMON. That's a lascivious apprehension.
TIMON. The little casket bring me hither.
TIMON. The man is honest.
TIMON. They are fairly welcome.                   Exit SERVANT
TIMON. They're welcome all; let 'em have kind admittance.
TIMON. This gentleman of mine hath serv'd me long;.
TIMON. Thou art proud, Apemantus.
TIMON. To Lacedaemon did my land extend.
TIMON. Well fare you, gentleman. Give me your hand;
TIMON. Well mock'd.
TIMON. Well; what further?
TIMON. What dost thou think 'tis worth?
TIMON. What means that trump?
TIMON. What trumpet's that?
TIMON. What wouldst do then, Apemantus?
TIMON. What, thyself?
TIMON. Wherefore?
TIMON. Whither art going?
TIMON. Why dost thou call them knaves? Thou know'st them not.
TIMON. Wilt dine with me, Apemantus?
TIMON. Wrought he not well that painted it?
TIMON. Yes.
TIMON. You do yourselves much wrong;
TIMON. You gods, reward them!
TIMON. You had rather be at a breakfast of enemies than dinner of
TIMON. You have done our pleasures much grace, fair ladies,
TIMON. You make me marvel wherefore ere this time
TIMON. You may take my word, my lord: I know no man
TIMON. You tell me true.
TITUS. And he wears jewels now of Timon's gift,
TITUS. Do you hear, sir?
TITUS. I'll show you how t' observe a strange event.
TITUS. One of Lord Timon's men.
TITUS. So is theirs and ours.
TITUS. The like to you, kind Varro.
TITUS. We attend his lordship; pray signify so much.
TITUS. We wait for certain money here, sir.
TRANIO
TRANIO. 'Tis death for any one in Mantua
TRANIO. 'Tis some odd humour pricks him to this fashion;
TRANIO. 'Tis well, sir, that you hunted for yourself;
TRANIO. 'Tis well; and hold your own, in any case,
TRANIO. 'Twas a commodity lay fretting by you;
TRANIO. A vengeance on your crafty withered hide!
TRANIO. Among them know you one Vincentio?
TRANIO. And I am one that love Bianca more
TRANIO. And here I take the like unfeigned oath,
TRANIO. And if I be, sir, is it any offence?
TRANIO. And is the bride and bridegroom coming home?
TRANIO. And tell us what occasion of import
TRANIO. And you, sir; you are welcome.
TRANIO. Ay, and he'll tame her.
TRANIO. Ay, marry, am I, sir, and now 'tis plotted.
TRANIO. Ay, mistress; and Petruchio is the master,
TRANIO. But hast thou done thy errand to Baptista?
TRANIO. But to her love concerneth us to ad
TRANIO. But youth in ladies' eyes that flourisheth.
TRANIO. But, say, what to thine old news?
TRANIO. Call forth an officer.
TRANIO. Curster than she? Why, 'tis impossible.
TRANIO. Dally not with the gods, but get thee gone.
TRANIO. Even he, Biondello.
TRANIO. Faith, he is gone unto the taming-school.
TRANIO. Fear you not him. Sirrah Biondello,
TRANIO. For what reason, I beseech you?
TRANIO. Gentlemen, God save you! If I may be bold,
TRANIO. Gremio, 'tis known my father hath no less
TRANIO. Greybeard, thy love doth freeze.
TRANIO. He hath some meaning in his mad attire.
TRANIO. He is my father, sir; and, sooth to say,
TRANIO. How now! what's the matter?
TRANIO. Husht, master! Here's some good pastime toward;
TRANIO. I love no chiders, sir. Biondello, let's away.
TRANIO. I pray, sir, tell me, is it possible
TRANIO. I thank you, sir. Where then do you know best
TRANIO. I' faith, he'll have a lusty widow now,
TRANIO. If he be credulous and trust my tale,
TRANIO. If it be so, sir, that you are the man
TRANIO. Is 't possible, friend Licio, that Mistress Bianca
TRANIO. Is this your speeding? Nay, then good-night our part!
TRANIO. Let us entreat you stay till after dinner.
TRANIO. Master, for my hand,
TRANIO. Master, it is no time to chide you now;
TRANIO. Master, some show to welcome us to town.
TRANIO. Master, you look'd so longly on the maid.
TRANIO. Mi perdonato, gentle master mine;
TRANIO. Mistress Bianca, bless you with such grace
TRANIO. Mistress, we have.
TRANIO. Nay, then 'tis time to stir him from his trance.
TRANIO. No, sir, but hear I do that he hath two:
TRANIO. Not possible; for who shall bear your part
TRANIO. Not so well apparell'd
TRANIO. O despiteful love! unconstant womankind!
TRANIO. O, sir, Lucentio slipp'd me like his greyhound,
TRANIO. Of Mantua, sir? Marry, God forbid,
TRANIO. Of Pisa, sir; son to Vincentio.
TRANIO. Of all mad matches, never was the like.
TRANIO. Pardon me, sir, the boldness is mine own
TRANIO. Patience, good Katherine, and Baptista too.
TRANIO. Perhaps him and her, sir; what have you to do?
TRANIO. Saw you no more? Mark'd you not how her sister
TRANIO. See not your bride in these unreverent robes;
TRANIO. Shall sweet Bianca practise how to bride it?
TRANIO. Signior Hortensio, I have often heard
TRANIO. Sir, I shall not be slack; in sign whereof,
TRANIO. Sir, this is the house; please it you that I call?
TRANIO. Sir, what are you that offer to beat my servant?
TRANIO. Sir, you seem a sober ancient gentleman by your habit, but
TRANIO. So could I, faith, boy, to have the next wish after,
TRANIO. So had you need.                [They exchange habits]
TRANIO. Softly, my masters! If you be gentlemen,
TRANIO. Th'art a tall fellow; hold thee that to drink.
TRANIO. That 'only' came well in. Sir, list to me:
TRANIO. That by degrees we mean to look into
TRANIO. That's but a cavil; he is old, I young.
TRANIO. Then at my lodging, an it like you.
TRANIO. Then go with me to make the matter good.
TRANIO. Then thou wert best say that I am not Lucentio.
TRANIO. To save your life in this extremity,
TRANIO. Well said, master; mum! and gaze your fill.
TRANIO. Well, sir, to do you courtesy,
TRANIO. What countryman, I pray?
TRANIO. What is he, Biondello?
TRANIO. What said the wench, when he rose again?
TRANIO. Why, she's a devil, a devil, the devil's dam.
TRANIO. Why, sir, I pray, are not the streets as free
TRANIO. Why, then the maid is mine from all the world
TRANIO. You will be schoolmaster,
TRINCULO, a jester
TRINCULO, in their stolen apparel
TRINCULO. 'Lord' quoth he! That a monster should be such
TRINCULO. A howling monster; a drunken monster!
TRINCULO. A most ridiculous monster, to make a wonder of
TRINCULO. And this.
TRINCULO. Ay, but to lose our bottles in the pool!
TRINCULO. But that the poor monster's in drink. An
TRINCULO. By this good light, this is a very shallow
TRINCULO. By this light, a most perfidious and drunken
TRINCULO. Do, do. We steal by line and level, an't like
TRINCULO. Excellent.
TRINCULO. Here's neither bush nor shrub to bear off any
TRINCULO. I did not give the lie. Out o' your wits and
TRINCULO. I have been in such a pickle since I saw you
TRINCULO. I shall laugh myself to death at this puppy-
TRINCULO. I should know that voice; it should be-but he is
TRINCULO. I took him to be kill'd with a thunderstroke.
TRINCULO. If these be true spies which I wear in my head,
TRINCULO. Monster, I do smell all horse-piss at which my
TRINCULO. Monster, come, put some lime upon your fingers,
TRINCULO. Nor go neither; but you'll lie like dogs, and
TRINCULO. O King Stephano! O peer! O worthy Stephano!
TRINCULO. O Stephano, hast any more of this?
TRINCULO. O, forgive me my sins!
TRINCULO. O, ho, monster; we know what belongs to a
TRINCULO. Servant-monster! The folly of this island! They
TRINCULO. Stephano!
TRINCULO. Stephano! If thou beest Stephano, touch me, and
TRINCULO. Swum ashore, man, like a duck; I can swim like
TRINCULO. That's more to me than my wetting; yet this is
TRINCULO. The sound is going away; let's follow it, and
TRINCULO. This is the tune of our catch, play'd by the
TRINCULO. Thou liest, most ignorant monster: I am in case
TRINCULO. Thou wert but a lost monster.
TRINCULO. Thy Grace shall have it.
TRINCULO. Where should they be set else? He were a brave
TRINCULO. Why, I said nothing.
TRINCULO. Why, what did I? I did nothing. I'll go farther
TRINCULO. Wilt come? I'll follow, Stephano.             Exeunt
TRINCULO. Your lieutenant, if you list; he's no standard.
Tailor, Haberdasher, and Servants attending on Baptista and
VARRO'S SERVANT. 'Twas due on forfeiture, my lord, six weeks and
VARRO'S SERVANT. Aside, aside; here comes Lord Timon.
VARRO'S SERVANT. Hang him, he'll abuse us!
VARRO'S SERVANT. How dost, fool?
VARRO'S SERVANT. I could render one.
VARRO'S SERVANT. I fear it.
VARRO'S SERVANT. I speak not to thee.
VARRO'S SERVANT. Is't not your business too?
VARRO'S SERVANT. One Varro's servant, my good lord-
VARRO'S SERVANT. Thou art not altogether a fool.
VARRO'S SERVANT. What is a whoremaster, fool?
VENTIDIUS. A noble spirit!
VENTIDIUS. Most honoured Timon,
VINCENTIO, a Merchant of Pisa
VINCENTIO.  [Seeing BIONDELLO]  Come hither, crack-hemp.
VINCENTIO. 'Tis a good hearing when children are toward.
VINCENTIO. Art thou his father?
VINCENTIO. Ay, mistress bride, hath that awakened you?
VINCENTIO. But is this true; or is it else your pleasure,
VINCENTIO. Carry me to the gaol!
VINCENTIO. Come hither, you rogue. What, have you forgot me?
VINCENTIO. Fair sir, and you my merry mistress,
VINCENTIO. Fear not, Baptista; we will content you, go to; but I
VINCENTIO. His name! As if I knew not his name! I have brought him
VINCENTIO. I'll slit the villain's nose that would have sent me to
VINCENTIO. Is Signior Lucentio within, sir?
VINCENTIO. Is't so, indeed?               [He beats BIONDELLO]
VINCENTIO. Lives my sweet son?
VINCENTIO. Lucentio! O, he hath murd'red his master! Lay hold on
VINCENTIO. Lucentio, gentle sir.
VINCENTIO. Thus strangers may be hal'd and abus'd. O monstrous
VINCENTIO. Thy father! O villain! he is a sailmaker in Bergamo.
VINCENTIO. What am I, sir? Nay, what are you, sir? O immortal gods!
VINCENTIO. What if a man bring him a hundred pound or two to make
VINCENTIO. What, you notorious villain, didst thou never see thy
VINCENTIO. Where is that damned villain, Tranio,
VINCENTIO. You shall not choose but drink before you go;
WIDOW. Come, come, you're mocking; we will have no telling.
WIDOW. He that is giddy thinks the world turns round.
WIDOW. Lord, let me never have a cause to sigh
WIDOW. Right, I mean you.
WIDOW. She shall not.
WIDOW. Then never trust me if I be afeard.
WIDOW. Thus I conceive by him.
WIDOW. Your husband, being troubled with a shrew,
Wife. O me! this sight of death is as a bell
Wife. The people in the street cry 'Romeo,'
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
GRUMIO. Knock, sir! Whom should I knock?
1594
1608
1612
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
A SENATOR'S house
A hall in TIMON'S house
A public place
A public road
A room of state in TIMON'S house
A ship at sea; afterwards an uninhabited island
ACT I. SCENE 1
ACT I. SCENE I.
ACT I. SCENE I.
ACT II. SCENE 1
ACT II. SCENE I.
ACT III. SCENE 1
ACT III. SCENE I.
ACT III. SCENE I.
ACT IV. SCENE 1
ACT IV. SCENE I.
ACT Il. SCENE I.
ACT V. SCENE 1
ACT V. SCENE I.
Another part of the island
Another part of the island
Another part of the island
Another part of the island
Athens and the neighbouring woods
Athens. TIMON'S house
BIONDELLO, and GRUMIO, bringing in a banquet
Before PROSPERO'S cell
Before PROSPERO'S cell
Before PROSPERO'S cell
Before TIMON'S house
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DRAMATIS PERSONAE
DRAMATIS PERSONAE
Dramatis Personae
EPILOGUE
Enter A SENATOR, with papers in his hand
Enter ALONSO, SEBASTIAN, ANTONIO, GONZALO, ADRIAN, FRANCISCO, and OTHERS
Enter ALONSO, SEBASTIAN, ANTONIO, GONZALO, ADRIAN, FRANCISCO, and OTHERS
Enter BAPTISTA, GREMIO, TRANIO as LUCENTIO, KATHERINA, BIANCA,
Enter BAPTISTA, VINCENTIO, GREMIO, the PEDANT, LUCENTIO, BIANCA,
Enter BIONDELLO, LUCENTIO, and BIANCA; GREMIO is out before
Enter CALIBAN, STEPHANO, and TRINCULO
Enter CALIBAN, with a burden of wood. A noise of thunder heard
Enter FERDINAND, hearing a log
Enter FLAVIUS, TIMON'S Steward, with many bills in his hand
Enter GRUMIO
Enter KATHERINA and BIANCA
Enter KATHERINA and GRUMIO
Enter LUCENTIO and his man TRANIO
Enter LUCENTIO as CAMBIO, HORTENSIO as LICIO, and BIANCA
Enter Lucius, with three STRANGERS
Enter PETRUCHIO and his man GRUMIO
Enter PETRUCHIO, KATHERINA, HORTENSIO, and SERVANTS
Enter POET, PAINTER, JEWELLER, MERCHANT, and MERCER, at several doors
Enter PROSPERO and MIRANDA
Enter PROSPERO in his magic robes, and ARIEL
Enter PROSPERO, FERDINAND, and MIRANDA
Enter Paris and his Page with flowers and [a torch].
Enter SEMPRONIUS and a SERVANT of TIMON'S
Enter TRANIO as LUCENTIO, and HORTENSIO as LICIO
Enter TRANIO as LUCENTIO, and the PEDANT dressed like VINCENTIO
Enter a SHIPMASTER and a BOATSWAIN
Enter two Of VARRO'S MEN, meeting LUCIUS' SERVANT, and others,
FLAMINIUS waiting to speak with LUCULLUS. Enter SERVANT to him
FLAVIUS and others attending; and then enter LORD TIMON, the states,
Hautboys playing loud music. A great banquet serv'd in;
LUCENTIO as CAMBIO, and ATTENDANTS
LUCENTIO'S house
LUCULLUS' house
On a ship at sea; a tempestuous noise of thunder and lightning heard
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PETRUCHIO'S country house
PETRUCHIO'S house
PETRUCHIO, KATHERINA, HORTENSIO, and WIDOW. The SERVINGMEN with TRANIO,
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
Padua. A public place
Padua. BAPTISTA'S house
Padua. BAPTISTA'S house
Padua. Before BAPTISTA'S house
Padua. Before BAPTISTA'S house
Padua. Before BAPTISTA'So house
Padua. Before HORTENSIO'S house
Padua. Before LUCENTIO'S house
SCENE 2
SCENE 2
SCENE 2
SCENE 3
SCENE II.
SCENE II.
SCENE II.
SCENE II.
SCENE II.
SCENE II.
SCENE II.
SCENE III.
SCENE III.
SCENE IV.
SCENE IV.
SCENE V.
SCENE:
SCENE:
SC_1
SC_2
SEMPRONIUS' house
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
Scene III.
THE END
THE END
THE END
THE LIFE OF TIMON OF ATHENS
THE TAMING OF THE SHREW
THE TEMPEST
THE TEMPEST
The Island. Before PROSPERO'S cell
Then comes, dropping after all, APEMANTUS, discontentedly, like himself
Then enter TITUS and HORTENSIUS
Verona. A churchyard; in it the monument of the Capulets.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
all being servants of TIMON's creditors, to wait for his coming out.
by William Shakespeare
by William Shakespeare
by William Shakespeare
the ATHENIAN LORDS, VENTIDIUS, which TIMON redeem'd from prison.
