

Exeunt
Exeunt
[Sings]
Exit SERVANT
Exeunt GENTLEMEN
[They talk aside]
[Giving it to PERDITA]
[Laying down a bundle]
Exeunt certain OFFICERS
Exit AUTOLYCUS, Singing
[Laying down the child]
[Laying down the child]
standing like a statue]
Exit with DORCAS and MOPSA
"Alphonse Frankenstein.
ATTENDANTS
Enter CLOWN
Exeunt FLORIZEL, PERDITA, and CAMILLO
Enter CLOWN
Enter a SERVANT
Exeunt PAULINA and LADIES with HERMIONE
[HERMIONE comes down from the pedestal]
Enter a SERVANT
SONG
Enter a GENTLEMAN
Enter a LORD
Enter a SERVANT
Enter an old SHEPHERD
Re-enter PAULINA
Re-enter AUTOLYCUS
Enter SHEPHERD and CLOWN
Enter another GENTLEMAN
Enter another GENTLEMAN
Here a dance of twelve SATYRS
Enter AUTOLYCUS, Singing
Re-enter CLOWN and SHEPHERD
Re-enter SERVANT
CLOWN, MOPSA, DORCAS, with OTHERS
Enter PAULINA, with a CHILD
[PAULINA draws a curtain, and discovers HERMIONE
"Your affectionate and afflicted father,
And merrily hent the stile-a;
CAMILLO, FLORIZEL, and PERDITA come forward
Your sad tires in a mile-a.                   Exit
Any silk, any thread,
Any toys for your head,
Come to the pedlar;
FLORIZEL and AUTOLYCUS exchange garments
Money's a meddler
Or lace for your cape,
Then whither goest? Say, whither?
Thou to me thy secrets tell.
Where it fits not you to know.
Will you buy any tape,
A merry heart goes all the day,
Jog on, jog on, the footpath way,
Bugle bracelet, necklace amber,
Buy, lads, or else your lasses cry.
Come, buy of me, come; come buy, come buy;
Come, buy.
Cypress black as e'er was crow;
For my lads to give their dears;
Gloves as sweet as damask roses;
Golden quoifs and stomachers,
Lawn as white as driven snow;
Masks for faces and for noses;
My dainty duck, my dear-a?
Of the new'st and fin'st, fin'st wear-a?
Perfume for a lady's chamber;
Pins and poking-sticks of steel-
Re-enter OFFICERS, with CLEOMENES and DION
That doth utter all men's ware-a.
What maids lack from head to heel.
Here a dance Of SHEPHERDS and SHEPHERDESSES
Enter HERMIONE, as to her trial, PAULINA, and LADIES
Re-enter CLEOMENES, with FLORIZEL, PERDITA, and
And bear the sow-skin budget,
And in the stocks avouch it.
Enter SHEPHERD, with POLIXENES and CAMILLO, disguised;
For a quart of ale is a dish for a king.
For the red blood reigns in the winter's pale.
I then do most go right.
The pale moon shines by night;
While we lie tumbling in the hay.
With heigh! the doxy over the dale,
With heigh! the sweet birds, O, how they sing!
With heigh! with heigh! the thrush and the jay,
And when I wander here and there,
Are summer songs for me and my aunts,
But shall I go mourn for that, my dear?
Doth set my pugging tooth on edge,
If tinkers may have leave to live,
The lark, that tirra-lirra chants,
The white sheet bleaching on the hedge,
Then my account I well may give
When daffodils begin to peer,
Why, then comes in the sweet o' the year,
clamour!
hereafter.
shepherd!
'Tis a derivative from me to mine,
'Tis hop'd his sickness is discharg'd.
'Tis not a visitation fram'd, but forc'd
'Tis rigour, and not law. Your honours all,
'Tis time; descend; be stone no more; approach;
'Twixt his unkindness and his kindness- th' one
'tis in three parts.
A better guiding spirit! What needs these hands?
A fair one are you- well you fit our ages
A fellow of the royal bed, which owe
A gentler scion to the wildest stock,
A graceful gentleman, against whose person,
A great man, I'll warrant; I know by the picking on's teeth.
A heart so tender o'er it, take it hence,
A just and open trial. While she lives,
A lady like me; with a love even such,
A lullaby too rough; I never saw
A man, the worst about you.
A mankind witch! Hence with her, out o' door!
A moiety of the throne, a great king's daughter,
A most intelligencing bawd!
A place whereto you'll go?
A prayer upon her grave. I'll not seek far-
A prosperous south-wind friendly, we have cross'd,
A ram and bleated; and the fire-rob'd god,
A saint-like sorrow. No fault could you make
A shepherd's daughter.
A vessel rides fast by, but not prepar'd
A wave o' th' sea, that you might ever do
A way to make us better friends, more known.
About some gossips for your Highness.
Above a better gone, so must thy grave
Address yourself to entertain them sprightly,
Affliction alters.
Affront his eye.
Afresh within me; and these thy offices,
Again possess her corpse, and on this stage,
Against this cruelty fight on thy side,
All faults I make, when I shall come to know them.
All mine own folly- the society,
All that you speak shows fair.
All tongues to talk their bitt'rest.
Although the print be little, the whole matter
Am heir to my affection.
Amity too, of your brave father, whom,
An honourable husband. Come, Camillo,
An hour since. Cleomenes and Dion,
And I beseech you hear me, who professes
And I but dream'd it. As you were past all shame-
And I'll say nothing.
And after that trust to thee.
And all eyes else dead coals! Fear thou no wife;
And begin 'Why to me'-
And better us'd, would make her sainted spirit
And bid us welcome to your sheep-shearing,
And bring him up to liking.
And by good testimony, or I'll seize thy life,
And call me father? Better burn it now
And come again to me; who, on my life,
And copy of the father- eye, nose, lip,
And damnable ingrateful. Nor was't much
And do not call them bastards.
And do not say 'tis superstition that
And downright languish'd. Leave me solely. Go,
And favour of the climate. As by strange fortune
And fill'd with honour, to my kingly guest
And first fruits of my body, from his presence
And from your sacred vials pour your graces
And frown upon 's.
And gracious be the issue!                            Exeunt
And handed love as you do, I was wont
And in Apollo's name, his oracle.
And in his parties, his alliance. Let him be,
And let's be red with mirth.
And level of my brain, plot-proof; but she
And made between's by vows. Thou hast found mine;
And make conceive a bark of baser kind
And mar the seeds within! Lift up thy looks.
And mark what way I make. Come, good my lord.         Exeunt
And most opportune to her need I have
And nobleness impose. At least, thus much:
And nothing marted with him. If your lass
And now baits me! This brat is none of mine;
And only live by gazing.
And only that I stand for. I appeal
And own no other function. Each your doing,
And play'd to take spectators; for behold me-
And pluck it o'er your brows, muffle your face,
And pray your mother's blessing. Turn, good lady;
And see it instantly consum'd with fire;
And see what death is doing.
And so deliver: I am put to sea
And so we wept; and there was the first gentleman-like tears that
And son unto the King, whom heavens directing,
And speak his very heart.
And still rest thine. The storm begins. Poor wretch,
And take her by the hand whose worth and honesty
And take you by the hand, but then you'll think-
And that unhappy king, my master, whom
And the ear-deaf'ning voice o' th' oracle,
And the true blood which peeps fairly through't,
And then run mad indeed, stark mad; for all
And there present yourself and your fair princess-
And think upon my bidding.                            Exeunt
And those but mean.
And those that bear them living.
And thou, good goddess Nature, which hast made it
And threaten present blusters. In my conscience,
And through him what's nearest to him, which is
And welcome to our shearing.
And what to her adheres, which follows after,
And why he left your court, the gods themselves,
And wilt encounter with my wrath, say so;
And with him rises weeping; these are flow'rs
And with my best endeavours in your absence
And would by combat make her good, so were I
And you the Queen on't.
And your fair princess- goddess! O, alas!
And, daughter, yours.
And, friends unknown, you shall bear witness to't:
And, gasping to begin some speech, her eyes
And, lozel, thou art worthy to be hang'd
And, might we lay th' old proverb to your charge,
Another's issue.
Apollo be my judge!
Apollo would, this being indeed the issue
Apollo, pardon
Appear in person here in court.
Appear'd to me last night; for ne'er was dream
Are our carnations and streak'd gillyvors,
As 'twere i' th' father's person; kisses the hands
As 'twere my daughter's eyes; and, to be plain,
As I am now unhappy; which is more
As I by thine a wife. This is a match,
As I did him, and speak of something wildly
As I seem now. Their transformations
As I thought, dead; and have, in vain, said many
As I weigh grief, which I would spare; for honour,
As I would do the gods. But, O thou tyrant!
As any cordial comfort. Still, methinks,
As boldness from my bosom, let't not be doubted
As ever oak or stone was sound.
As every present time doth boast itself
As he from heaven merits it, with you,
As heavens forfend! your ruin- marry her;
As if you were a feasted one, and not
As infancy and grace. But yet, Paulina,
As is the spring to th' earth. And hath he too
As it hath been to us rare, pleasant, speedy,
As it is here set down.
As like Hermione as is her picture,
As little skill to fear as I have purpose
As my Antigonus to break his grave
As now it coldly stands- when first I woo'd her!
As recompense of our dear services
As shall become your Highness; where you may
As she liv'd now.
As soft as dove's down and as white as it,
As this world goes, to pass for honest.
As thou art liegeman to us, that thou carry
As thou art tender to't.                                Exit
As was your former; but she shall be such
As we are mock'd with art.
As you had slept between. Leontes leaving-
As you have ever been my father's honour'd friend,
As your good flock shall prosper.
As, walk'd your first queen's ghost, it should take joy
Aside, aside- here is more matter for a hot brain. Every lane's
At all acknowledge. For Polixenes,
At each his needless heavings- such as you
At knowing of thy choice.
At least ungentle, of the dreadful Neptune,
At my petition; I beseech you, rather
At upper end o' th' table, now i' th' middle;
Away with that audacious lady! Antigonus,
Be born another such.
Be known when 'tis brought forth. A shepherd's daughter,
Be so receiv'd. But thus- if pow'rs divine
Be thereat glean'd, for all the sun sees or
Became a bull and bellow'd; the green Neptune
Became two spouts; the fury spent, anon
Become your time of day- and yours, and yours,
Been both at Delphos, and from thence have brought
Been publicly accus'd, so shall she have
Before this ancient sir, whom, it should seem,
Behold our human actions, as they do,
Being counted falsehood shall, as I express it,
Being now awake, I'll queen it no inch farther,
Being well arriv'd from Delphos, are both landed,
Bequeath to death your numbness, for from him
Beseech you tenderly apply to her
Besides, this place is famous for the creatures
Between their births.
Blemish'd his gracious dam. This is not, no,
Bohemia greets you from himself by me;
Bohemia stops his ears, and threatens them
Both dame and servant; welcom'd all; serv'd all;
Both disobedience and ingratitude
Break too!
Bred his hopes out of.
Bright Phoebus in his strength- a malady
Bring them to our embracement.                        Exeunt
Burn hotter than my faith.
But as th' unthought-on accident is guilty
But as you shake off one to take another;
But fair posterity- should hold some counsel
But first I'll do my errand. The good Queen,
But how, is to be question'd; for I saw her,
But kill'd itself much sooner.
But know not how it went; my second joy
But milk my ewes and weep.
But my arrival and my wife's in safety
But my heart bleeds; and most accurs'd am I
But nature makes that mean; so over that art
But not deliver'd. O, hear me breathe my life
But not take in the mind.
But nothing alt'red. What I was, I am:
But one that's here; and that's himself; for he
But quick, and in mine arms. Come, take your flow'rs.
But she'll not stumble.
But smacks of something greater than herself,
But sweeter than the lids of Juno's eyes
But that the good mind of Camillo tardied
But that you have your father's bosom there
But this most cruel usage of your Queen-
But till 'twere known!
But to your protestation; let me hear
But undergo this flight: make for Sicilia,
But what comes from myself, it shall scarce boot me
But what he did being childish?
But what your jealousies awake, I tell you
But yet hear this- mistake me not: no life,
But, O, the thorns we stand upon! Camillo-
But, for some other reasons, my grave sir,
By bud of nobler race. This is an art
By law and process of great Nature thence
By need and accident. What train?
By th' northern blasts twice o'er.
By th' pattern of mine own thoughts I cut out
By thy Dame Partlet here. Take up the bastard;
By us perform'd before. Most dearly welcome!
By us, a pair of kings. Let's from this place.
By wicked powers.
Came to your court, how I was in your grace,
Camillo a true subject; Leontes a jealous tyrant; his innocent
Camillo for the minister to poison
Can clear me in't.
Can do no more.
Can send his brother; and, but infirmity,
Casting their savageness aside, have done
Chide me, dear stone, that I may say indeed
Come home to ye!- you must retire yourself
Come not before him.
Come, good boy, the next way home.
Come, lady, come. Farewell, my friend.
Come, quench your blushes, and present yourself
Come, strike up.                                     [Music]
Comes it not something near?
Commend them and condemn them to her service
Commit me for committing honour- trust it,
Commit them to the fire.
Conceiving the dishonour of his mother,
Conceiving you. Were I but twenty-one,
Concern me the reporting.
Contract us fore these witnesses.
Could ever yet cut breath? Let no man mock me,
Crowns what you are doing in the present deeds,
Cry fie upon my grave!
Dear life redeems you. You perceive she stirs.
Dear queen, that ended when I but began,
Death to thyself, but to thy lewd-tongu'd wife,
Desire to breed by me. Here's flow'rs for you:
Desires you to attach his son, who has-
Destroy'd the sweet'st companion that e'er man
Did ever so long live; no sorrow
Did perish with the infant. 'Tis your counsel
Did this break from her: 'Good Antigonus,
Did verily bear blood?
Digest it with a custom, I should blush
Dismantle you, and, as you can, disliken
Do all lie there. It shall be so my care
Do as the heavens have done: forget your evil;
Do bid it welcome.
Do climate here! You have a holy father,
Do come with words as medicinal as true,
Do give a life- no shepherdess, but Flora
Do light upon her, she shall bring him that
Do not repent these things, for they are heavier
Do plainly give you out an unstain'd shepherd,
Do strike at my injustice.                 [HERMIONE swoons]
Do their best office if they can but stay you
Do you neglect them?
Does change my disposition.
Does my deeds make the blacker!
Each one demand and answer to his part
Either for life or death, upon the earth
Endur'd all weathers.
Enjoy your mistress, from the whom, I see,
Enough then for your wonder. But come on,
Equal with wond'ring. What of her ensues
Even in these looks I made.  [To FLORIZEL]  But your petition
Even pushes 'gainst our heart- the party tried,
Even then will rush to knowledge. Go; fresh horses.
Even thou, and none but thou. Take it up straight.
Even to the guilt or the purgation.
Even with such life of majesty- warm life,
Ever since it could speak, from an infant, freely,
Excels whatever yet you look'd upon
Expos'd this paragon to th' fearful usage,
False accusation blush, and tyranny
Fancies too weak for boys, too green and idle
Farre than Deucalion off. Mark thou my words.
Fasten'd and fix'd the shame on't in himself,
Faster than thought or time.
Fear none of this. I think you know my fortunes
Fear not, man; here's no harm intended to thee.
Fear you his tyrannous passion more, alas,
Fertile the isle, the temple much surpassing
First hand me. On mine own accord I'll off;
Fled from his father, from his hopes, and with
Flow'd with her beauty once; 'tis shrewdly ebb'd,
Follow us to the court. Thou churl, for this time,
For I do fear eyes over- to shipboard
For I will kiss her.
For a reply, at least if you make a care
For being more stone than it? O royal piece,
For girls of nine- O, think what they have done,
For has not the divine Apollo said,
For him, I partly know his mind- to find thee
For me to try how; all I know of it
For more amazement. If you can behold it,
For most it caught me, the celestial habits-
For present comfort, and for future good,
For she did print your royal father off,
For she is good, hath brought you forth a daughter;
For so, I see, she must be- fore Leontes.
For this affliction has a taste as sweet
For this design. What course I mean to hold
For thou set'st on thy wife.
For visiting your Highness. My best train
For which the heavens, taking angry note,
For you there's rosemary and rue; these keep
For't not dropp'd down yet.
For, as the case now stands, it is a curse
For, being transported by my jealousies
Fore your queen died, she was more worth such gazes
Forswear themselves as often as they speak.
Fortunate mistress- let my prophecy
Freed and enfranchis'd- not a party to
From Dis's waggon!- daffodils,
From my succession wipe me, father; I
From the dead blow of it. And you, enchantment,
From the flowers now that, frighted, thou let'st fall
From those you sent to th' oracle are come
From thy admiring daughter took the spirits,
From your good Queen.
Gave hope thou wast in being, have preserv'd
Gentle spectators, that I now may be
Get undescried.
Give me that hand of yours to kiss.
Give me those flow'rs there, Dorcas. Reverend sirs,
Give way to what's seen now! Sir, you yourself
Give you all greetings that a king, at friend,
Given to the fire, a moiety of my rest
Golden Apollo, a poor humble swain,
Good gentleman!- the wrongs I have done thee stir
Grace and remembrance be to you both!
Had been more merciful. Come on, poor babe.
Had squar'd me to thy counsel! Then, even now,
Hal'd out to murder; myself on every post
Hardly one subject.
Has he any unbraided wares?
Has these poor men in question. Never saw I
Hasting to th' court.
Hath been as continent, as chaste, as true,
Hath been beyond account.
Hath made thy person for the thrower-out
Hath not been us'd to fear. Even now I tremble
Hath she to change our loves. Beseech you, sir,
Hath sometime lov'd. I take thy hand- this hand,
Have I here touch'd Sicilia, and from him
Have at it with you.
Have done the time more benefit, and grac'd
Have left me issueless; and your father's blest,
Have said and writ so, but your writing now
Have strain'd t' appear thus; if one jot beyond
Have taken treasure from her lips-
Have we pass'd through, not without much content
Have you a father?
Have you deserv'd. It is my father's music
Have you done there?
Having no warrant.
He bade me say so, more than all the sceptres
He cannot be compell'd to 't- once remove
He chides to hell, and bids the other grow
He dies to me again when talk'd of. Sure,
He has his health, and ampler strength indeed
He is not guilty of her coming hither.
He looks like sooth. He says he loves my daughter;
He shall not rule me.
He straight declin'd, droop'd, took it deeply,
He thus should steal upon us.
He will allow no speech- which I do guess
He wishes earnestly you never may.                      Exit
He would not call me son.
He'll think anon it lives.
He's simple and tells much.  [To FLORIZEL]  How now, fair
He's with the King your father.
Heat outwardly or breath within, I'll serve you
Heirs of your kingdoms, my poor house to visit,
Hence with it, and together with the dam
Her and her virtues, I cannot forget
Her brother, having both their country quitted
Her children not her husband's!
Her eye, and tell me for what dull part in't
Her heart is but o'ercharg'd; she will recover.
Her portion equal his.
Here 'tis; commends it to your blessing.
Here come those I have done good to against my will, and already
Here comes a gentleman that happily knows more. The news, Rogero?
Here comes the Lady Paulina's steward; he can deliver you more.
Here to this place, i' th' open air, before
Here where we are.
Hermione hath suffer'd death, and that
Hermione was not so much wrinkled, nothing
Hides not his visage from our cottage, but
His daughter's trial! that he did but see
His dignity and duty both cast off-
His going I could frame to serve my turn,
His hopeful son's, his babe's, betrays to slander,
His tears proclaim'd his, parting with her; thence,
His very air, that I should call you brother,
His welcomes forth; asks thee there 'Son, forgiveness!'
His wish'd ability, he had himself
Hold up before him?
Honest as either, to purge him of that humour
Hot lavender, mints, savory, marjoram;
How ceremonious, solemn, and unearthly,
How goes it now, sir? This news, which is call'd true, is so like
How merited to be so; since he came,
How now, there!
How often said my dignity would last
How prettily the young swain seems to wash
How would he look to see his work, so noble,
Howe'er the business goes, you have made fault
Humbling their deities to love, have taken
I am about, let them depart.
I am as ignorant in that as you
I am asham'd. Does not the stone rebuke me
I am barr'd, like one infectious; my third comfort,
I am but sorry, not afeard; delay'd,
I am content to hear; for 'tis as easy
I am content to look on; what to speak
I am friend to them and you. Upon which errand
I am gone for ever.                  Exit, pursued by a bear
I am so fraught with curious business that
I am sorry that by hanging thee I can but
I be not thine. To this I am most constant,
I call upon thee.
I can hook to me- say that she were gone,
I charg'd thee that she should not come about me;
I come to bring him sleep. 'Tis such as you,
I could afflict you farther.
I daily vow to use it. Come, and lead me
I did in time collect myself, and thought
I did not well, I meant well. All my services
I do give lost, for I do feel it gone,
I do refer me to the oracle:
I do repent. Alas, I have show'd too much
I doubt not then but innocence shall make
I give my daughter to him, and will make
I have a woman's longing.
I have from your Sicilian shores dismiss'd;
I have got strength of limit. Now, my liege,
I have heard, but not believ'd, the spirits o' th' dead
I have serv'd Prince Florizel, and in my time wore three-pile;
I have too much believ'd mine own suspicion.
I kneel, and then implore her blessing. Lady,
I knew she would.
I know not how it tastes, though it be dish'd
I know not what I shall incur to pass it,
I know, in honour, O that ever I
I leave out ceremony.
I like your silence; it the more shows off
I list not prophesy; but let Time's news
I little like.
I lost a couple that 'twixt heaven and earth
I lov'd him as in honour he requir'd;
I mean thou shalt- we'll bar thee from succession;
I mention'd a son o' th' King's, which Florizel
I might have look'd upon my queen's full eyes,
I needs must think it honesty. Camillo,
I never saw a vessel of like sorrow,
I now go toward him; therefore, follow me,
I now name to you; and with speed so pace
I prithee call't. For this ungentle business,
I prize it not a straw, but for mine honour
I shall do good.
I shall have more than you can dream of yet;
I shall re-view Sicilia, for whose sight
I so much thirst to see.
I speak amazedly; and it becomes
I think Camillo?
I think affliction may subdue the cheek,
I think so too; for never gaz'd the moon
I think there is not half a kiss to choose
I told you what would come of this. Beseech you,
I turn my glass, and give my scene such growing
I was about to speak and tell him plainly
I was not much afeard; for once or twice
I will be squar'd by this. I do believe
I will devise a death as cruel for thee
I will even take my leave of you and pace softly towards my
I would I had some flow'rs o' th' spring that might
I would your spirit were easier for advice.
I' th' boldness of your speech.
I' th' virtue of your daughter. One being dead,
I'd have you buy and sell so; so give alms;
I'd have you do it ever. When you sing,
I'd not have show'd it.
I'll blush you thanks.
I'll fill your grave up. Stir; nay, come away.
I'll follow instantly.
I'll have no wife, Paulina.
I'll make the statue move indeed, descend,
I'll not remember you of my own lord,
I'll pawn the little blood which I have left
I'll point you where you shall have such receiving
I'll reconcile me to Polixenes,
I'll speak of her no more, nor of your children;
I'll to the Queen. Please you come something nearer.
I'll use that tongue I have; if wit flow from't
If I had thought the sight of my poor image
If I may ever know thou dost but sigh
If I might die within this hour, I have liv'd
If any be, the trespass of the Queen.
If ever you have spent time worse ere now;
If never, yet that Time himself doth say
If not, my senses, better pleas'd with madness,
If she did know me one. Away with her!
If she pertain to life, let her speak too.
If this be magic, let it be an art
If you may please to think I love the King,
If your more ponderous and settled project
If, one by one, you wedded all the world,
In Whitsun pastorals. Sure, this robe of mine
In every mess have folly, and the feeders
In fair Bohemia; and remember well
In leads or oils? What old or newer torture
In many singularities; but we saw not
In more than this deed does require! And blessing
In so entitling me; and no less honest
In storm perpetual, could not move the gods
In such a business.
In thy not chiding; for she was as tender
In unknown fathoms, will I break my oath
Incertain lookers-on. What were more holy
Interpretation should abuse and call this
Into some covert; take your sweetheart's hat
Is all as monstrous to our human reason
Is altogether just. Therefore, bring forth,
Is as a meeting of the petty gods,
Is at the nuptial of his son a guest
Is colder than that theme: 'She had not been,
Is counted lost for ever, Perdita
Is not your father grown incapable
Is quite beyond mine arm, out of the blank
Is richly noted, and here justified
Is she become the suitor?
Is th' argument of Time. Of this allow,
Is that Camillo was an honest man;
Is this the daughter of a king?
Is troth-plight to your daughter. Good Paulina,
Is yet unanswer'd. I will to your father.
Is't not the tenour of his oracle,
It came to us, I do in justice charge thee,
It is a surplus of your grace, which never
It is an heretic that makes the fire,
It is my father's will I should take on me
It is the issue of Polixenes.
It shall not neither.  [To ANTIGONUS]  You, Sir, come you hither.
It was i' th' off'ring!
Jewel of children, seen this hour, he had pair'd
Kin to Jove's thunder, so surpris'd my sense
King found his heir?
King, how attentivenes wounded his daughter; till, from one sign
Know man from man, dispute his own estate?
Knowing by Paulina that the oracle
Laid to thy answer; but the last- O lords,
Lament till I am lost.
Laugh at me, make their pastime at my sorrow.
Lawful as eating.
Lead on to some foul issue. We all kneel.
Lead us from hence where we may leisurely
Left his to th' worthiest; so his successor
Leontes opening his free arms and weeping
Less appear so, in comforting your evils,
Less impudence to gainsay what they did
Lest they desire upon this push to trouble
Let him that was the cause of this have pow'r
Let me be punish'd that have minded you
Let nature crush the sides o' th' earth together
Lies he not bed-rid, and again does nothing
Lift up your countenance, as it were the day
Like an old tale; but it appears she lives
Like offices of pity. Sir, be prosperous
Like to his father's greatness. His approach,
Like very sanctity, she did approach
Lonely, apart. But here it is. Prepare
Look for no less than death.
Look to thy bark. I'll not be long before
Look to your babe, my lord; 'tis yours. Jove send her
Looks on alike.  [To FLORIZEL]  Will't please you, sir, be gone?
Make me to think so twenty years together!
Mark our contract.
May drop upon his kingdom and devour
May suffer alteration, on mine honour,
May think anon it moves.
May this, almost a miracle, be done?
May walk again. If such thing be, thy mother
Measur'd, to look upon you; whom he loves,
Mercury, was likewise a snapper-up of unconsidered trifles. With
Methinks I play as I have seen them do
Methinks I so should term them- and the reverence
Might I a son and daughter now have look'd on,
Might come to me again. Who's there?
Might thus have stood begetting wonder as
Mine own, nor anything to any, if
More criminal in thee than it- so thou
More free than he is jealous.
More homely than thy state. For thee, fond boy,
More monstrous standing by; whereof I reckon
More penitence than done trespass. At the last,
More rich for what they yielded.
More straining on for plucking back; not following
More than was ever man's, I would not prize them
More worth than any man; men, that she is
Most goddess-like prank'd up. But that our feasts
Most incident to maids; bold oxlips, and
Most sorry, you have broken from his liking
Must I receive, whose every word deserves
My blemishes in them, and so still think of
My cabin where I lay; thrice bow'd before me;
My child! Away with't. Even thou, that hast
My evils conjur'd to remembrance, and
My father nam'd me Autolycus; who, being, I as am, litter'd under
My father of this business.
My father will grant precious things as trifles.
My friend Polixenes; which had been done
My great profaneness 'gainst thine oracle.
My heart will be a burden to me. Leave me;
My ill suspicion. This your son-in-law,
My leash unwillingly.
My life may last to answer.
My life stands in the level of your dreams,
My lord should to the heavens be contrary,
My lord's almost so far transported that
My marvel and my message. To your court
My mate, that's never to be found again,
My swift command, though I with death and with
My traffic is sheets; when the kite builds, look to lesser linen.
Myself to see the issue.
Myself your loyal servant, your physician,
Never till then.
Never to marry but by my free leave?
New woo my queen, recall the good Camillo-
No father owning it- which is indeed
No foot shall stir.
No more such wives; therefore, no wife. One worse,
No more than were I painted I would wish
No remedy but you will- give me the office
No richer than his honour. How he glisters
No settled senses of the world can match
No yellow in't, lest she suspect, as he does,
None should come at him.
Nor dare to know that which I know.  [To FLORIZEL]  O sir,
Nor in a way so chaste, since my desires
Nor is't directly laid to thee, the death
Nor read the secrets in't.
Nor shall appear in Sicilia.
Nor was not to be equall'd.' Thus your verse
Not able to produce more accusation
Not doing it and being done. He, most humane
Not dry.
Not for Bohemia, nor the pomp that may
Not hold thee of our blood, no, not our kin,
Not like a corse; or if- not to be buried,
Not only my success in Libya, sir,
Not she which burns in't. I'll not call you tyrant
Not yet on summer's death nor on the birth
Nothing but jollity. The gods themselves,
Nothing but that; move still, still so,
Nothing may give us aid.
Nothing so certain as your anchors, who
Nourish the cause of his awaking: I
Now bless thyself; thou met'st with things dying, I with things
Now piercing to my soul. O, thus she stood,
Now seems to it. Your patience this allowing,
Now take upon me, in the name of Time,
O that he were alive, and here beholding
O'er sixteen years, and leave the growth untried
O, cut my lace, lest my heart, cracking it,
O, pardon that I name them! Your high self,
Of King Polixenes, it should here be laid,
Of all incertainties himself commended,
Of all professors else, make proselytes
Of all that hear me, and my near'st of kin
Of any point in't shall not only be
Of being tyrannous, since we so openly
Of boundless tongue, who late hath beat her husband,
Of celebration of that nuptial which
Of every wind that blows.
Of excellent witchcraft, who of force must know
Of good and bad, that makes and unfolds error,
Of great Apollo's priest; and that since then
Of happy holding her.
Of his most sovereign name; consider little
Of its right father. Blossom, speed thee well!
Of middle summer, and I think they are given
Of my behind-hand slackness! Welcome hither,
Of my poor babe, according to thine oath,
Of our dominions; and that there thou leave it,
Of pity, not revenge!
Of prey that keep upon't.
Of reasonable affairs? Is he not stupid
Of that wide gap, since it is in my pow'r
Of the Queen's speed, is gone.
Of the grave wearers. O, the sacrifice!
Of the young Prince, whose honourable thoughts-
Of this escape, and whither they are bound;
Of this fair couple- meets he on the way
Of trembling winter, the fairest flow'rs o' th' season
Of tyranny, and will ignoble make you,
Of us too much belov'd. Let us be clear'd
Of what you should forget. Now, good my liege,
Of who she but bid follow.
Of your fresh princess; o'er and o'er divides him
Of your own state take care. This dream of mine-
On his shoulder, and his; her face o' fire
On thy soul's peril and thy body's torture,
On your displeasure's peril, and on mine,
Once more to look on him.
One grave shall be for both. Upon them shall
One of these two must be necessities,
Oppos'd, as it must be, by th' pow'r of the King.
Oppose against their wills.  [To LEONTES]  Care not for issue;
Or Cytherea's breath; pale primroses,
Or Ethiopian's tooth, or the fann'd snow that's bolted
Or I my life.
Or from the all that are took something good
Or hand of man hath done; therefore I keep it
Or hoop his body more with thy embraces,
Or how stol'n from the dead.
Or not my father's; for I cannot be
Or stronger for your need.
Or those that think it is unlawful business
Or to their own perdition.
Or what is now receiv'd. I witness to
Our Perdita is found.
Our contract celebrated.
Our king, being ready to leap out of himself for joy of his found
Our most disloyal lady; for, as she hath
Our rustic garden's barren; and I care not
Our shame perpetual. Once a day I'll visit
Ourselves to be the slaves of chance and flies
Out of the chamber with her! Were I a tyrant,
Partake to every one. I, an old turtle,
Past and to come, that you do change this purpose,
Pedlar, let's have the first choice. Follow me, girls.
Peering in April's front. This your sheep-shearing
Perform'd in this wide gap of time since first
Places remote enough are in Bohemia,
Please you to interpose, fair madam. Kneel,
Poor thing, condemn'd to loss!           Exit with the child
Pray so; and, for the ord'ring your affairs,
Pray you a word.                       [They converse apart]
Preserver of my father, now of me;
Prevail not, go and see. If you can bring
Prince Florizel, my son? Kings are no less unhappy, their issue
Proceed in justice, which shall have due course,
Proclaim'd a strumpet; with immodest hatred
Produce the prisoner.
Prosperity's the very bond of love,
Prove as successful to the Queen- O, be't so!-
Purchase the sight again of dear Sicilia
Purge all infection from our air whilst you
Put on thee by my lord, thou ne'er shalt see
Quit presently the chapel, or resolve you
Ran on the green-sward; nothing she does or seems
Recoil upon me- in himself too mighty,
Remember since you ow'd no more to time
Resolv'd for flight. Now were I happy if
Respecting her that's gone. Besides, the gods
Reward did threaten and encourage him,
Romano, who, had he himself eternity and could put breath into
Run not before mine honour, nor my lusts
Save him from danger, do him love and honour,
Say so but seldom.
Say you the like to him?
See how he fares.  [Exit SERVANT]  Fie, fie! no thought of him!
Seeming and savour all the winter long.
Shall I dash out. Go, take it to the fire;
Shall I live on to see this bastard kneel
Shall be my recreation. So long as nature
Shall be when your first queen's again in breath;
Shall nothing benefit your knowledge, nor
Shall she, within my pow'r.
Shall the contents discover, something rare
Shalt feel our justice; in whose easiest passage
She I kill'd! I did so; but thou strik'st me
She came from Libya.
She had just cause.
She is as forward of her breeding as
She is i' th' rear o' our birth.
She lacks instructions, for she seems a mistress
She melted into air. Affrighted much,
She prizes not such trifles as these are.
She shall be habited as it becomes
She should not visit you.
She would to each one sip. You are retired,
She, th' adultress; for the harlot king
Shorten thy life one week. And thou, fresh piece
Should I, in these my borrowed flaunts, behold
Should be 'Remember mine.'
Should be past grief. Do not receive affliction
Should chase us with my father, pow'r no jot
Should choose himself a wife; but as good reason
Should pass this way, as you did. O, the Fates!
Should rift to hear me; and the words that follow'd
Sicilia, thou art here accused and arraigned of high treason, in
Sicilia.
Silence!
Since fate, against thy better disposition,
Sir, royal sir, forgive a foolish woman.
So aged as this seems.
So and no other, as yourself commanded;
So fill'd and so becoming; in pure white robes,
So forcing faults upon Hermione,
So her dead likeness, I do well believe,
So like a waking. To me comes a creature,
So like to him that got it, if thou hast
So like you 'tis the worse. Behold, my lords,
So many summers dry. Scarce any joy
So much to my good comfort as it is
So out of circumstance and sudden, tells us
So rarely kind, are as interpreters
So sacred as it is, I have done sin,
So singular in each particular,
So soon as you arrive, shall clear that doubt.
So sure as this beard's grey- what will you adventure
So to esteem of us; and on our knees we beg,
So well, nothing so well; no, nor mean better.
So, let's see- it was told me I should be rich by the fairies.
So, so. Farewell; we are gone.                          Exit
Some call him Autolycus.
Some hangman must put on my shroud and lay me
Some powerful spirit instruct the kites and ravens
Some remedies for life.
Something unfilial. Reason my son
Sometimes her head on one side some another-
Son of Polixenes, with his princess- she
Sorely, to say I did. It is as bitter
Speak ere thou diest.
Stand by, a looker-on.
Stand you auspicious!
Standing like stone with thee!
Starr'd most unluckily, is from my breast-
Start not; her actions shall be holy as
Step forth mine advocate; at your request
Still betters what is done. When you speak, sweet,
Still sleep mock'd death. Behold; and say 'tis well.
Still, 'tis strange
Strangle such thoughts as these with any thing
Strike all that look upon with marvel. Come;
Such goodly things as you!
Summon a session, that we may arraign
Tak'st up the Princess by that forced baseness
Take it on her. Camillo and Polixenes
Take't up, I say; give't to thy crone.
Tell me what blessings I have here alive
Ten thousand years together, naked, fasting,
Th' adventure of her person?
Th' effects of his fond jealousies so grieving
Than I do now. With thought of such affections,
Than a wild dedication of yourselves
Than all thy woes can stir; therefore betake thee
Than curse it then. But be it; let it live.
Than he, and men- the earth, the heavens, and all:
Than history can pattern, though devis'd
Than most have of his age.
Than such as most seem yours- I say I come
Than the Queen's life? A gracious innocent soul,
Than to be pitied of thee. Prithee, bring me
Than to perform it first.
Than to rejoice the former queen is well?
Than what you look on now.
Than you are mad; which is enough, I'll warrant,
Than your own weak-hing'd fancy- something savours
That I have borne your father?
That I have had of thee!
That I may call thee something more than man,
That I must bear a part.
That I should fear to die. Therefore proceed.
That I was nothing.
That King Leontes shall not have an heir
That all your acts are queens.
That any of these bolder vices wanted
That best becomes the table. Pray you, once more,
That cannot do that feat, you'll leave yourself
That come before the swallow dares, and take
That could conceive a gross and foolish sire
That creep like shadows by him, and do sigh
That did but show thee, of a fool, inconstant,
That die unmarried ere they can behold
That e'er I put between your holy looks
That e'er the sun shone bright on.
That ever made eye swerve, had force and knowledge
That for thy mother's fault art thus expos'd
That he shuts up himself- imagine me,
That heirless it hath made my kingdom, and
That it was yours. Now for conspiracy:
That knew'st this was the Prince, and wouldst adventure
That makes her blood look out. Good sooth, she is
That makes himself, but for our honour therein,
That my ability may undergo,
That nature makes. You see, sweet maid, we marry
That never mean to part.
That noble honour'd lord, is fear'd and lov'd?
That presses him from sleep.
That should be silent. If young Doricles
That thou betray'dst Polixenes, 'twas nothing;
That thou commend it strangely to some place
That thou no more shalt see this knack- as never
That thought to fill his grave in quiet, yea,
That thus affects a sheep-hook! Thou, old traitor,
That way inclining, hard'ned be the hearts
That wear upon your virgin branches yet
That which I shall report will bear no credit,
That which my daughter came to look upon,
That which you are, Mistress o' th' Feast. Come on,
That wilt not stay her tongue.
That you behold the while. Your guests are coming.
That you may know you shall not want- one word.
That you might well enjoy her.
That you, Cleomenes and Dion, have
That, were I crown'd the most imperial monarch,
The Prince your son, with mere conceit and fear
The anger of the King, nor guilty of,
The art itself is nature.
The ballad is very pitiful, and as true.
The bastard brains with these my proper hands
The bound of honour, or in act or will
The bug which you would fright me with I seek.
The casting forth to crows thy baby daughter
The cause were not in being- part o' th' cause,
The causes of their death appear, unto
The chapel where they lie; and tears shed there
The child-bed privilege denied, which 'longs
The close earth wombs, or the profound seas hides
The common praise it bears.
The crown and comfort of my life, your favour,
The crown will find an heir. Great Alexander
The crown-imperial; lilies of all kinds,
The daughter of a king, our wife, and one
The day frowns more and more. Thou'rt like to have
The deserts of Bohemia?
The dibble in earth to set one slip of them;
The fairest I have yet beheld- desires access
The father of this seeming lady and
The father- all whose joy is nothing else
The flatness of my misery; yet with eyes
The flow'r-de-luce being one. O, these I lack
The gifts she looks from me are pack'd and lock'd
The glistering of this present, as my tale
The gracious mark o' th' land, you have obscur'd
The great Apollo suddenly will have
The hand was fair before! I have put you out.
The heaven sets spies upon us, will not have
The heavens so dim by day.  [Noise of hunt within]  A savage
The heavens with that we have in hand are angry
The hostess of the meeting. Pray you bid
The hostess-ship o' th' day.  [To CAMILLO]
The innocent milk in it most innocent mouth-
The lands and waters 'twixt your throne and his
The love I bore your queen- lo, fool again!
The manner of your bearing towards him, with
The marigold, that goes to bed wi' th' sun,
The medicine of our house- how shall we do?
The mirth o' th' feast. Or I'll be thine, my fair,
The mother to a hopeful prince- here standing
The odds for high and low's alike.
The one I have almost forgot- your pardon;
The ordering of the mind too, 'mongst all colours
The other, when she has obtain'd your eye,
The partner of your bed. Methinks I see
The pedlar's silken treasury and have pour'd it
The pleasure of that madness. Let 't alone.
The pretty dimples of his chin and cheek; his smiles;
The purity of his.
The queen of curds and cream.
The rarest of all women.
The rashness of a woman! He is touch'd
The root of his opinion, which is rotten
The royal fool thou cop'st with-
The ruddiness upon her lip is wet;
The sacred honour of himself, his Queen's,
The same I am, ere ancient'st order was
The scene you play were mine. For instance, sir,
The self-same sun that shines upon his court
The sessions shall proceed. This is mere falsehood.
The shapes of beasts upon them: Jupiter
The stars, I see, will kiss the valleys first.
The statue is but newly fix'd, the colour's
The statue of her mother.
The sternness of his presence?
The sweet'st, dear'st creature's dead; and vengeance
The testimony on my part no other
The time is worth the use on't.
The times that brought them in; so shall I do
The trick of's frown, his forehead; nay, the valley,
The truth of this appear. Prepare you, lords;
The truth of your own seeming, that you may-
The very life seems warm upon her lip.
The very mould and frame of hand, nail, finger.
The very thought of my revenges that way
The violation of my faith; and then
The which shall point you forth at every sitting
The winds of March with beauty; violets, dim
The wrong I did myself; which was so much
Then, till the fury of his Highness settle,
There is an air comes from her. What fine chisel
There is an art which in their piedness shares
There is some sap in this.
There lie, and there thy character; there these
There shall not at your father's house these seven years
There weep, and leave it crying; and, for the babe
There's magic in thy majesty, which has
There's no disjunction to be made but by,
Therefore I will not disdain.
Thereof most worthy, were I the fairest youth
These lords, my noble fellows, if they please,
These rural latches to his entrance open,
These unknown friends to's welcome, for it is
They are come.
They have been absent; 'tis good speed; foretells
They should not laugh if I could reach them; nor
Things known betwixt us three, I'll write you down;
This child was prisoner to the womb, and is
This day she was both pantler, butler, cook;
This female bastard hence; and that thou bear it
This follows, if you will not change your purpose
This is some changeling. Open't. What's within, boy?
This seal'd-up oracle, by the hand deliver'd
This was so and no slumber. Dreams are toys;
This youth should say 'twere well, and only therefore
Thorough my rust! And how his piety
Those of your fact are so- so past all truth;
Thou art Hermione; or rather, thou art she
Thou canst not speak too much; I have deserv'd
Thou shouldst a husband take by my consent,
Thou wilt perform my bidding.
Thou wouldst have poison'd good Camillo's honour,
Though 'tis a saying, sir, not due to me.
Though Fortune, visible an enemy,
Though bearing misery, I desire my life
Though destiny say no. Be merry, gentle;
Though full of our displeasure, yet we free thee
Though yet she speak not. Mark a little while.
Thoughts high for one so tender- cleft the heart
Threw off his spirit, his appetite, his sleep,
Thus by Apollo's great divine seal'd up-
Thus we set on, Camillo, to th' sea-side.
Thy brat hath been cast out, like to itself,
Thy by-gone fooleries were but spices of it.
Thy father's court? For thou shalt hear that I,
Thy father's ground.
Thy wife Paulina more.' so, with shrieks,
Till his lost child be found? Which that it shall,
Tincture or lustre in her lip, her eye,
To be acknowledg'd- thou a sceptre's heir,
To be by oath enjoin'd to this. Farewell!
To be or none or little, though a devil
To be so rid o' th' business.                           Exit
To be thy nurses! Wolves and bears, they say,
To bear the matter thus- mere weakness. If
To bless the bed of majesty again
To bloody thoughts and to revenge, I chose
To chide at your extremes it not becomes me-
To choose you a queen. She shall not be so young
To die upon the bed my father died,
To die when I desire.                                   Exit
To execute the charge my father gave me
To force him after; in whose company
To get slips of them.
To greet a man not worth her pains, much less
To greet him and to give him comforts. Sir,
To have a worthy feeding; but I have it
To have him kill a king- poor trespasses,
To have them recompens'd as thought on.
To have you royally appointed as if
To her acceptance: you have let him go
To lie close by his honest bones; but now
To load my she with knacks; I would have ransack'd
To look that way thou wert.
To loss and what may follow! Weep I cannot,
To make a perfect woman, she you kill'd
To make her speak as move.
To make you garlands of, and my sweet friend
To me can life be no commodity.
To me or my swift passage that I slide
To me the difference forges dread; your greatness
To men of middle age. Y'are very welcome.
To mend her kissing with!
To mingle faith with him!- Undone, undone!
To miseries enough; no hope to help you,
To most that teach.
To murder her I married.
To nothing but despair. A thousand knees
To o'erthrow law, and in one self-born hour
To plant and o'erwhelm custom. Let me pass
To prate and talk for life and honour fore
To put you to't. But, come; our dance, I pray.
To save the innocent- anything possible.
To save this bastard's life- for 'tis a bastard,
To save this brat's life?
To say 'Not guilty.' Mine integrity
To say you have seen a better.
To see her in your arms.
To see him any more- cast your good counsels
To see the life as lively mock'd as ever
To see the statue of our queen. Your gallery
To see you so attir'd; swoon, I think,
To show myself a glass.
To sing them too. When you do dance, I wish you
To some remote and desert place, quite out
To speak of Perdita, now grown in grace
To speak your deeds; not little of his care
To strew him o'er and o'er!
To take off so much grief from you as he
To taste of thy most worst? Thy tyranny
To th' freshest things now reigning, and make stale
To th' noble heart. What's gone and what's past help
To the dead bodies of my queen and son.
To these sorrows.                                     Exeunt
To think your father, by some accident,
To this my fair belov'd. Therefore, I pray you,
To unpath'd waters, undream'd shores, most certain
To use my wings. Impute it not a crime
To what we wildly do, so we profess
To women of all fashion; lastly, hurried
To you and toward your friend; whose love had spoke,
To your high presence.
To your own conscience, sir, before Polixenes
Together working with thy jealousies,
Too far i' th' land; 'tis like to be loud weather;
Too noble for this place.
Tremble at patience. You, my lord, best know-
Tug for the time to come. This you may know,
Turn all to th' best! These proclamations,
Unclasp'd my practice, quit his fortunes here,
Unfurnish me of reason.
Unless he take the course that you have done-
Until a time may serve; for present vengeance,
Until you see her die again; for then
Unvenerable be thy hands, if thou
Unworthy thee- if ever henceforth thou
Up in my heart, which I have given already,
Upon a barren mountain, and still winter
Upon his own report, and I believe it:
Upon his passion. Let myself and Fortune
Upon my daughter's head! Tell me, mine own,
Upon surmises, all proofs sleeping else
Upon the water as he'll stand and read,
Upon thy tongue as in my thought. Now, good now,
Vilely bound up? What would he say? Or how
Was like to be the best.
We are not furnish'd like Bohemia's son;
We have always truly serv'd you; and beseech
We have landed in ill time; the skies look grimly
We honour you with trouble; but we came
We shall not marry till thou bid'st us.
We two have sworn shall come.
We were dissever'd. Hastily lead away.                Exeunt
We'll make an instrument of this; omit
Well may I get aboard! This is the chase;
Well with this lord; there was not full a month
Were I the ghost that walk'd, I'd bid you mark
Were it but told you, should be hooted at
Were never for a piece of beauty rarer,
Were not the proof so nigh. Please you, great sir,
What colour for my visitation shall I
What dangers, by his Highness' fail of issue,
What holier than, for royalty's repair,
What was he that did make it? See, my lord,
What wheels, racks, fires? what flaying, boiling
What you as from your father shall deliver,
What you have underta'en to do in's absence.
What you must say, that he shall not perceive
What you profess.
What! look upon my brother. Both your pardons,
When I have said, cry 'Woe!'- the Queen, the Queen,
When I shall see this gentleman, thy speeches
When he shall miss me- as, in faith, I mean not
When most the truth; which I receive much better
When my good falcon made her flight across
When once she is my wife.
When she was young you woo'd her; now in age
When she will take the rein, I let her run;
Where chance may nurse or end it. Take it up.
Where hast thou been preserv'd? Where liv'd? How found
Where no priest shovels in dust. [To PERDITA] O cursed wretch,
Where we offend her now, appear soul-vex'd,
Where were her life? She durst not call me so,
Where you were tied in duty; and as sorry
Where you'll be loath to be. Besides, you know
Wherein my hope is I shall so prevail
Which 'tis not fit you know, I not acquaint
Which I protest against- I am assisted
Which I would free- if I shall be condemn'd
Which I'll lay down.
Which being so horrible, so bloody, must
Which comes to me in name of fault, I must not
Which contradicts my accusation, and
Which dances with your daughter?
Which does mend nature- change it rather; but
Which he counts but a trifle.
Which he has put upon't!
Which he not dreams of.
Which lets go by some sixteen years and makes her
Which may, if fortune please, both breed thee, pretty,
Which not to have done, I think had been in me
Which sixteen winters cannot blow away,
Which some call nature's bastards. Of that kind
Which then will speak, that you must change this purpose,
Which to deny concerns more than avails; for as
Which waits upon worn times, hath something seiz'd
Which you have not redeem'd; indeed, paid down
Which you knew great, and to the certain hazard
Which you say adds to nature, is an art
Whiles he was hast'ning- in the chase, it seems,
Who for Bohemia bend, to signify
Who hast the memory of Hermione,
Who is lost too. Take your patience to you,
Who least will seem to do so- my past life
Who loves another best.
Who please to come and hear. For life, I prize it
Whom I proclaim a man of truth, of mercy.
Whom for this time we pardon. We enjoin thee,
Whom son I dare not call; thou art too base
Whose fresh complexion and whose heart together
Whose honour and whose honesty till now
Whose sting is sharper than the sword's; and will not-
Will bear up with this exercise, so long
Will bring me to consider that which may
Will clear or end the business. When the oracle-
Will come on very slowly. I am sorry,
Will have fulfill'd their secret purposes;
Will have your tongue too. This is a creature,
Will he endure your sight as yet, I fear;
Will never do him good, not one of you.
Will piece up in himself.
Will stand betwixt you and danger.                    Exeunt
Will thereto be obedient, I have reason;
Will wing me to some wither'd bough, and there
Will you not push her out? Give her the bastard.
With Lady Margery, your midwife there,
With a swain's wearing; and me, poor lowly maid,
With a sweet fellow to't?
With age and alt'ring rheums? Can he speak, hear,
With divers deaths in death.
With flow'rs of winter.
With great creating nature.
With her who here I cannot hold on shore.
With labour, and the thing she took to quench it
With oily painting. Shall I draw the curtain?
With such a kind of love as might become
With that thou else call'st thine. If thou refuse,
With them forgive yourself.
With these forc'd thoughts, I prithee, darken not
With this young prince.
With what encounter so uncurrent I
With whom I am accus'd, I do confess
With wisdom I might fear, my Doricles,
With your crown'd brother and these your contracted
Within this hour bring me word 'tis done,
Without her love; for her employ them all;
Without more mercy, to it own protection
Worthy enough a herdsman- yea, him too
Worthy his goodness. What might I have been,
Wotting no more than I, are ignorant.
Would I were dead, but that methinks already-
Would be unparallel'd.
Would blow you through and through. Now, my fair'st friend,
Would have him wed again.
Would have shed water out of fire ere done't;
Would she begin a sect, might quench the zeal
Would sing her song and dance her turn; now here
Would thus have wrought you- for the stone is mine-
Would you not deem it breath'd, and that those veins
Wretches so quake. They kneel, they kiss the earth;
Yea, scandalous to the world.
Yet for the outside of thy poverty we must make an exchange;
Yet nature is made better by no mean
Yet nature might have made me as these are,
Yet, for this once, yea, superstitiously,
Yet, if my lord will marry- if you will, sir,
You chose her; then I'd shriek, that even your ears
You do awake your faith. Then all stand still;
You do not purpose to him- and as hardly
You ha' done me a charitable office.
You had a bastard by Polixenes,
You have heard of my poor services i' th' love
You have not dar'd to break the holy seal
You have paid home; but that you have vouchsaf'd,
You have undone a man of fourscore-three
You hear my spell is lawful. Do not shun her
You kill her double. Nay, present your hand.
You know your father's temper. At this time
You might have spoken a thousand things that would
You offer him, if this be so, a wrong
You pity not the state, nor the remembrance
You precious winners all; your exultation
You speak a language that I understand not.
You that are thus so tender o'er his follies
You that have been so tenderly officious
You woo'd me the false way.
You'd be so lean that blasts of January
You'd call your children yours.
You'll mar it if you kiss it; stain your own
You're welcome, sir.
You, gracious couple, do. And then I lost-
Your choice is not so rich in worth as beauty,
Your discontenting father strive to qualify,
Your eye hath too much youth in't. Not a month
Your father's image is so hit in you
Your gracious self, embrace but my direction.
Your hand, my Perdita; so turtles pair
Your heart is full of something that does take
Your honour not o'erthrown by your desires,
Your joys with like relation. Go together,
Your kindness better.
Your lack of love or bounty, you were straited
Your maidenheads growing. O Proserpina,
Your mind from feasting. Sooth, when I was young
Your most obedient counsellor; yet that dares
Your mother was most true to wedlock, Prince;
Your praises are too large. But that your youth,
Your purse is not hot enough to purchase your spice. I'll be with
Your resolution cannot hold when 'tis
Your wonder; but yet speak. First, you, my liege.
Yourself, assisted with your honour'd friends,
[Takes off his false beard]  How now, rustics! Whither are you
[To ANTIGONUS]  Thou dotard, thou art woman-tir'd, unroosted
[To CAMILLO]  I'll hear you by and by.
[To CAMILLO]  Is it not too far gone? 'Tis time to part them.
a handkerchief and rings of his that Paulina knows.
a little amazedness, we were all commanded out of the chamber;
a sickness denying thee anything; a death to grant this.
a squire's child! Look thee here; take up, take up, boy; open't.
a world ransom'd, or one destroyed. A notable passion of wonder
aboard the Prince; told him I heard them talk of a fardel and I
about a piece of iniquity- stealing away from his father with his
above water, and sung this ballad against the hard hearts of
absence makes us unthrifty to our knowledge. Let's along.
access? Every wink of an eye some new grace will be born. Our
acquaint the King withal, I would not do't. I hold it the more
admiration. They seem'd almost, with staring on one another, to
against a brick wall, the sun looking with a southward eye upon
alive.
all greediness of affection are they gone, and there they intend
all my money?
already.
am therefore no courtier? I am courtier cap-a-pe, and one that
an old tale that the verity of it is in strong suspicion. Has the
and five or six honest wives that were present. Why should I
and he sings psalms to hornpipes. I must have saffron to colour
and if it be in man besides the King to effect your suits, here
and in the hottest day prognostication proclaims, shall he be set
and in the view of the shepherd; so that all the instruments
and my name put in the book of virtue!
and now newly perform'd by that rare Italian master, Julio
and odd shilling; fifteen hundred shorn, what comes the wool to?
angle that plucks our son thither. Thou shalt accompany us to the
another, so and in such manner that it seem'd sorrow wept to take
any but these boil'd brains of nineteen and two and twenty hunt
appeared in them; but the wisest beholder that knew no more but
appearing in the blossoms of their fortune.
approved their virtues.
are most of them means and bases; but one Puritan amongst them,
are never curst but when they are hungry. If there be any of him
as if she would pin her to her heart, that she might no more be
at us, and we may do anything extempore. The Prince himself is
babe truly begotten; and the King shall live without an heir, if
back of man, the heart of monster.
ballad but even too well, if it be doleful matter merrily set
be punish'd by him. Show those things you found about her, those
be thy will! What have we here?  [Taking up the child]  Mercy
be to the flight of my master.
bear be gone from the gentleman, and how much he hath eaten. They
beating and hanging are terrors to me; for the life to come, I
becomes none but tradesmen, and they often give us soldiers the
been since an ape-bearer; then a process-server, a bailiff; then
been to him; and then your blood had been the dearer by I know
before the King; and not the worst of the three but jumps twelve
behoves men to be wary.
being so far officious; for I am proof against that title, and
benediction to the buyer; by which means I saw whose purse was
best in picture; and what I saw, to my good use I rememb'red. My
blade is out.
bleed tears; for I am sure my heart wept blood. Who was most
blood.
bondage of certain ribbons and gloves.
bookish, yet I can read waiting-gentlewoman in the scape. This
born. You were best say these robes are not gentlemen born. Give
bound?
box?
bring away thy pack after me. Wenches, I'll buy for you both.
brother, a very simple gentleman! I have sold all my trumpery;
brother-in-law.
brother; whose loss of his most precious queen and children are
business?
but even now. Whoa-ho-hoa!
but now I am out of service.
buy first, as if my trinkets had been hallowed and brought a
buy for our sheep-shearing feast? Three pound of sugar, five
buy the other things anon.
by the nose with gold. Show the inside of your purse to the
can so fit his customers with gloves. He has the prettiest
cannot be spoken of. There might you have beheld one joy crown
capable of things serious, thou must know the King is full of
carry lies abroad?
certainly whipt out of the court.
chains. No hearing, no feeling, but my sir's song, and admiring
changes I perceived in the King and Camillo were very notes of
charge.
circumstance. That which you hear you'll swear you see, there is
circumstances partly laid open, thou, Hermione, contrary to the
clog at his heels. If I thought it were a piece of honesty to
clothes? Say you see them not and think me still no gentleman
clown, who wants but something to be a reasonable man, grew so in
coast on Wednesday the fourscore of April, forty thousand fathom
codpiece of a purse; I would have fil'd keys off that hung in
command the to open thy affair.
committing adultery with Polixenes, King of Bohemia; and
conspiring with Camillo to take away the life of our sovereign
continuing, this mystery remained undiscover'd. But 'tis all one
could not move you. He sings several tunes faster than you'll
court. They cherish it to make it stay there; and yet it will no
creature in resemblance of the mother; the affection of nobleness
curses he shall have, the tortures he shall feel, will break the
cut most of their festival purses; and had not the old man come
cut-purse; a good nose is requisite also, to smell out work for
daughter come into grace! Some say he shall be ston'd; but that
daughter, as if that joy were now become a loss, cries 'O, thy
daughter- so he then took her to be- who began to be much
daughters will be all gentlemen born.
death is too soft for him, say I. Draw our throne into a
death, death!
die and drab I purchas'd this caparison; and my revenue is the
distraction that they were to be known by garment, not by favour.
double occasion- gold, and a means to do the Prince my master
down, or a very pleasant thing indeed and sung lamentably.
drunk. But I'll swear it; and I would thou wouldst be a tall
ear, a quick eye, and a nimble hand, is necessary for a
ears grew to his tunes.
end, every shop, church, session, hanging, yields a careful man
enough.
estate as we are.
even now to be afresh lamented. Say to me, when saw'st thou the
ever we shed.
fairs, and bear-baitings.
faith and allegiance of true subject, didst counsel and aid them,
father nor to me, to go about to make me the King's
fear the wolf will sooner find than the master. If any where I
fellow of thy hands.
firmament and it you cannot thrust a bodkin's point.
fish for she would not exchange flesh with one that lov'd her.
fish- was, when at the relation of the Queen's death, with the
flown over many knavish professions, he settled only in rogue.
foolery already. I know, sir, we weary you.
foot and a half by th' squier.
for some that know little but bowling, it will please
for the King's son took me by the hand and call'd me brother; and
for the most part been aired abroad, I desire to lay my bones
for their better safety, to fly away by night.'
forgiven you, you're well to live. Gold! all gold!
fought in Paulina! She had one eye declin'd for the loss of her
found. But, O, the noble combat that 'twixt joy and sorrow was
four threes of herdsmen.
from me, and these detestable things put upon me.
from me? Reflect I not on thy baseness court-contempt? Think'st
gentleman; he's at it now.
gentlemen.
going to see the Queen's picture. Come, follow us; we'll be thy
going; I shall there have money or anything I want. Offer me no
gold; and though authority be a stubborn bear, yet he is oft led
good masters.                                         Exeunt
good.                              Exeunt SHEPHERD and CLOWN
good; which who knows how that may turn back to my advancement? I
goodness hath made. Better not to have had thee than thus to want
grief.
guests? 'Tis well they are whisp'ring. Clammer your tongues, and
hand.                                       [Helping him up]
hand; for she hath privately twice or thrice a day, ever since
happier affairs may be are to me unknown; but I have missingly
has been some stair-work, some trunk-work, some behind-door-work;
has not offended the King; and so your flesh and blood is not to
has not only his innocence, which seems much, to justify him, but
have committed to your worship, and to give me your good report
have not enough considered- as too much I cannot- to be more
have pinch'd a placket, it was senseless; 'twas nothing to geld a
have relish'd among my other discredits.
have them, 'tis by the sea-side, browsing of ivy. Good luck, an't
have to the King concerns him nothing, let him call me rogue for
he compass'd a motion of the Prodigal Son, and married a tinker's
he'll be made an example.
heaping friendships. Of that fatal country Sicilia, prithee,
hence the child?
her ape. He so near to Hermione hath done Hermione that they say
her'; and where some stretch-mouth'd rascal would, as it were,
her. Now he thanks the old shepherd, which stands by like a
herd to me that all their other senses stuck in ears. You might
here is that gold I have. I'll make it as much more, and leave
him, where he is to behold him with flies blown to death. But
his son-in-law; then again worries he his daughter with clipping
his work, would beguile nature of her custom, so perfectly he is
hogshead. And then for the land service- to see how the bear tore
honest a true fellow as any is in Bohemia.
hope I shall not be flay'd out of it.
horn-ring, to keep my pack from fasting. They throng who should
hour, if I may come to th' speech of him.
how much an ounce.
how thou dar'st venture to be drunk not being a tall fellow,
husband, another elevated that the oracle was fulfill'd. She
in danger of losing.
in with whoobub against his daughter and the King's son and
in't; but they themselves are o' th' mind, if it be not too rough
is here with this exchange! Sure, the gods do this year connive
is left of him what he is, fetch me to th' sight of him.
is man shall do it.
it the measure of the court? Receives not thy nose court-odour
it, which they know to be his character; the majesty of the
jewel about the neck of it; the letters of Antigonus found with
keep it close. Home, home, the next way! We are lucky, boy; and
kings and princes; for by such was it acted.
kinsman not past three quarters of a mile hence, unto whom I was
kinsman's.
knavery to conceal it; and therein am I constant to my
know not what; but he at that time over-fond of the shepherd's
know thou art no tall fellow of thy hands and that thou wilt be
known- discover.
language in their very gesture; they look'd as they had heard of
late now.
lawns. Why he sings 'em over as they were gods or goddesses; you
lays it on. She hath made me four and twenty nosegays for the
leave of them; for their joy waded in tears. There was casting up
left, I'll bury it.
let the law go whistle; I warrant you.
lie; but we pay them for it with stamped coin, not stabbing
lifted the Princess from the earth, and so locks her in embracing
long'd to eat adders' heads and toads carbonado'd.
look'd big and spit at him, he'd have run.
lord the King, thy royal husband: the pretence whereof being by
love with the wenches' song that he would not stir his pettitoes
love-songs for maids; so without bawdry, which is strange; with
maid to answer 'Whoop, do me no harm, good man'- puts him off,
maids. It was thought she was a woman, and was turn'd into a cold
manner how she came to't bravely confess'd and lamented by the
marble there changed colour; some swooned, all sorrowed. If all
married a shepherd's daughter.
matter.
may be matter in it.                                    Exit
me into this apparel.
me the lie, do; and try whether I am not now a gentleman born.
mean mischief, and break a foul gap into the matter, he makes the
men are not yet cold under water, nor the bear half din'd on the
milking-time, when you are going to bed, or kiln-hole, to whistle
money of me; but being enthrall'd as I am, it will also be the
money, I pray you; that kills my heart.
more but abide.
more than all the lawyers in Bohemia can learnedly handle, though
more, which will shame you to give him again.
most rare note. The report of her is extended more than can be
mother, thy mother!' then asks Bohemia forgiveness; then embraces
my brother, and the Princess, my sister, call'd my father father.
name was Antigonus, a nobleman! But to make an end of the ship-
neat-herds, three swineherds, that have made themselves all men
necessity in't- and change garments with this gentleman. Though
neighbours, is grown into an unspeakable estate.
new-born. Here's a sight for thee; look thee, a bearing-cloth for
none must know but the King; and which he shall know within this
not a counterfeit stone, not a ribbon, glass, pomander, brooch,
not a word more.
not being gracious, than they are in losing them when they have
not the air of the court in these enfoldings? Hath not my gait in
not to say it is a sea, for it is now the sky; betwixt the
noted he is of late much retired from court, and is less frequent
nothing in the between but getting wenches with child, wronging
nutmegs, seven; race or two of ginger, but that I may beg; four
of 'Two maids wooing a man.' There's scarce a maid westward but
of dolour to another, she did with an 'Alas!'- I would fain say-
of eyes, holding up of hands, with countenance of such
of hair; they call themselves Saltiers, and they have dance which
of heart that way, and that he knew, I warrant him.
of sweet gloves.
of that penitent, as thou call'st him, and reconciled king, my
of what having, breeding, and anything that is fitting to be
off these secrets, but you must be tittle-tattling before all our
old man does, when the business is performed; and remain, as he
old shepherd deliver the manner how he found it; whereupon, after
on's, a barne! A very pretty barne. A boy or a child, I wonder? A
on't.
one would speak to her and stand in hope of answer- thither with
only this, methought I heard the shepherd say he found the child.
or weather.
other day, because I was no gentleman born. See you these
out another, and the shearers prove sheep, let me be unroll'd,
out his shoulder-bone; how he cried to me for help, and said his
outside of his hand, and no more ado. Remember- ston'd and flay'd
over with honey, set on the head of a wasp's nest; then stand
pack will hold.
piteous cry of the poor souls! Sometimes to see 'em, and not to
place; where we will, not appearing what we are, have some
plackets where they should bear their faces? Is there not
plentifully.
pound of currants, rice- what will this sister of mine do with
pound of prunes, and as many of raisins o' th' sun.
pranks too; who, I may say, is no honest man, neither to his
preferment drop on my head. I brought the old man and his son
present partner in this business, and lay aside the thoughts of
pretty one; a very pretty one- sure, some scape. Though I am not
proclaim her with all certainty to be the King's daughter. Did
profession.
question with the shepherd; from whose simplicity I think it not
rehearse, though credit be asleep and not an ear open: he was
remov'd fifty times, shall all come under the hangman- which,
removedness; from whom I have this intelligence, that he is
rice? But my father hath made her mistress of the feast, and she
roared, and the bear mock'd him, both roaring louder than the sea
say it: I'll swear it.
says, your pawn till it be brought you.
scar'd my choughs from the chaff, I had not left a purse alive in
sea-sick, and himself little better, extremity of weather
secret things- all but what she has with her. This being done,
see 'em; now the ship boring the moon with her mainmast, and anon
seeing could not say if th' importance were joy or sorrow- but in
seldom from the house of a most homely shepherd- a man, they say,
service. Lend me thy hand, I'll help thee. Come, lend me thy
services by leaving me now. The need I have of thee thine own
she sings it; 'tis in request, I can tell you.
shearers- three-man song-men all, and very good ones; but they
sheep-cote!- all deaths are too few, the sharpest too easy.
sheep-shearing.
sheep-whistling rogue, a ram-tender, to offer to have his
ship to purge melancholy and air himself; for, if thou be'st
silly-cheat. Gallows and knock are too powerful on the highway;
sir?
sister; we are gone else. Sir, I will give you as much as this
sleep out the thought of it. A prize! a prize!
sleeve-hand and the work about the square on't.
slights him, with 'Whoop, do me no harm, good man.'
smil'd at, their offences being so capital? Tell me, for you seem
so far that I have eyes under my service which look upon his
some boot.  [Giving money]
something gently consider'd, I'll bring you where he is aboard,
sometimes by chance. Let me pocket up my pedlar's excrement.
souls roared, and the sea mock'd them; and how the poor gentleman
speak no more; whose very naming punishes me with the remembrance
steel; therefore they do not give us the lie.
strange sights. He must know 'tis none of your daughter nor my
stripes I have received, which are mighty ones and millions.
such another encounter, which lames report to follow it and
such delicate burdens of dildos and fadings, 'jump her and thump
such unity in the proofs. The mantle of Queen Hermione's; her
suffer me: she drops booties in my mouth. I am courted now with a
sufficiently manage, must either stay to execute them thyself, or
swallowed with yeast and froth, as you'd thrust a cork into a
table-book, ballad, knife, tape, glove, shoe-tie, bracelet,
take away with thee the very services thou hast done; which if I
take it up for pity; yet I'll tarry till my son come; he halloo'd
take it.
taken yourself with the manner.
takes up the shore! But that's not to the point. O, the most
tall fellow of thy hands and that thou wilt not be drunk; but I
tear the cases of their eyes; there was speech in their dumbness,
tell money; he utters them as he had eaten ballads, and all men's
tell, good sir, for which of his virtues it was, but he was
tender your persons to his presence, whisper him in your behalfs;
th' other senses. I see this is the time that the unjust man doth
thankful to thee shall be my study; and my profit therein the
that fardel, the place of your dwelling, your names, your ages,
that from very nothing, and beyond the imagination of his
that which is lost be not found.'
the King's daughter is found. Such a deal of wonder is broken out
the ancientry, stealing, fighting-  [Horns]  Hark you now! Would
the behalf of his friend. And I'll swear to the Prince thou art a
the death of Hermione, visited that removed house. Shall we
the extremity of the one it must needs be.
the gentlemen are in sad talk, and we'll not trouble them. Come,
the nothing of it. So that in this time of lethargy I pick'd and
the pennyworth on his side be the worst, yet hold thee, there's
the right-hand; I will but look upon the hedge, and follow you.
the warden pies; mace; dates- none, that's out of my note;
the wenches say is a gallimaufry of gambols, because they are not
the whole army.
the world could have seen't, the woe had been universal.
thee, rather than have these off.
thee; thou, having made me businesses which none without thee can
them come in; but quickly now.
then the two kings call'd my father brother; and then the Prince,
then we are sure they are true.
there your charity would have lack'd footing.
there. Besides, the penitent King, my master, hath sent for me;
therefore discase thee instantly- thou must think there's a
they come to him by th' gross; inkles, caddisses, cambrics,
they were warmer that got this than the poor thing is here. I'll
think it fit to shore them again, and that the complaint they
think so, which is another spur to my departure.
think, sister.
this weather? They have scar'd away two of my best sheep, which I
this young man in pawn till I bring it you.
thither, and with our company piece the rejoicing?
thou art dead and rotten, come hither. What ail'st thou, man?
thou, for that I insinuate, that toaze from thee thy business, I
though it be great pity, yet it is necessary. An old
thought to begin from such a cottage.
thrive. What an exchange had this been without boot! What a boot
till he be three quarters and a dram dead; then recover'd again
till he had both tune and words, which so drew the rest of the
to be honest plain men, what you have to the King. Being
to be so still requires nothing but secrecy. Let my sheep go.
to his princely exercises than formerly he hath appeared.
to me; for had I been the finder-out of this secret, it would not
to see how the sea flap-dragon'd it; but first, how the poor
to sup.
to tell the King she's a changeling and none of your flesh and
to the Prince my master.
to whose feeling sorrows I might be some allay, or I o'erween to
torn to pieces with a bear. This avouches the shepherd's son, who
troll-my-dames; I knew him once a servant of the Prince. I cannot
trust me not. Hark! the kings and the princes, our kindred, are
twenty, or that youth would sleep out the rest; for there is
undoes description to do it.
uneasy to get the cause of my son's resort thither. Prithee be my
vengeance bitter; but those that are germane to him, though
was brought to bed of twenty money-bags at a burden, and how she
weather-bitten conduit of many kings' reigns. I never heard of
what shame else belongs to't. To him will I present them. There
what talk we of these traitorly rascals, whose miseries are to be
which aided to expose the child were even then lost when it was
which angl'd for mine eyes- caught the water, though not the
which is in the keeping of Paulina- a piece many years in doing
which nature shows above her breeding; and many other evidences-
wife within a mile where my land and living lies; and, having
will bring these two moles, these blind ones, aboard him. If he
will either push on or pluck back thy business there; whereupon I
will make him scratch his beard.
with aqua-vitae or some other hot infusion; then, raw as he is,
with thee; if this be a horseman's coat, it hath seen very hot
within this hour that ballad-makers cannot be able to express it.
work.
would never dance again after a tabor and pipe; no, the bagpipe
would think a smock were she-angel, he so chants to the
you at your sheep-shearing too. If I make not this cheat bring
you see the meeting of the two kings?
"That horse his mettle from his rider takes:
'"All my offences that abroad you see
'"Among the many that mine eyes have seen,
'"And, lo, behold these talents of their hair,
'"But, O my sweet, what labour is't to leave
'"How mighty then you are, O hear me tell!
'"Lo, all these trophies of affections hot,
'"Lo, this device was sent me from a nun,
'"Look here what tributes wounded fancies sent me,
'"My parts had pow'r to charm a sacred nun,
'"Now all these hearts that do on mine depend,
'"O pardon me in that my boast is true!
'"O then advance of yours that phraseless hand
'"The diamond? why, 'twas beautiful and hard,
'"When thou impressest, what are precepts worth
'And long upon these terms I held my city,
'But ah, who ever shunned by precedent
'But quickly on this side the verdict went:
'But woe is me! too early I attended
'Father,' she says, 'though in me you behold
'For further I could say this man's untrue,
'For lo, his passion, but an art of craft,
'His browny locks did hang in crooked curls;
'His qualities were beauteous as his form,
'In him a plenitude of subtle matter,
'Many there were that did his picture get,
'Nor gives it satisfaction to our blood
'O father, what a hell of witchcraft lies
'O, that infected moisture of his eye,
'Small show of man was yet upon his chin;
'So many have, that never touched his hand,
'So on the tip of his subduing tongue
'That he did in the general bosom reign
'That not a heart which in his level came
'This said, his wat'ry eyes he did dismount,
'Thus merely with the garment of a Grace
'Tis promised in the charity of age.
'Well could he ride, and often men would say,
'Yet did I not, as some my equals did,
A plaintful story from a sist'ring vale,
A reverend man that grazed his cattle nigh,
A thousand favours from a maund she drew
A youthful suit- it was to gain my grace-
ANTIGONUS. Anything, my lord,
ANTIGONUS. Come, poor babe.
ANTIGONUS. Go thou away;
ANTIGONUS. Hang all the husbands
ANTIGONUS. I am none, by this good light.
ANTIGONUS. I did not, sir.
ANTIGONUS. I swear to do this, though a present death
ANTIGONUS. I told her so, my lord,
ANTIGONUS. I will, my lord.
ANTIGONUS. La you now, you hear!
ANTIGONUS. That's enough.
ANTIGONUS. Their sacred wills be done! Go, get aboard;
ANTIGONUS. Thou art perfect then our ship hath touch'd upon
AUTOLYCUS.  [Aside]  I know not what impediment this complaint may
AUTOLYCUS.  [Aside]  If the springe hold, the cock's mine.
AUTOLYCUS.  [Aside]  If they have overheard me now- why, hanging.
AUTOLYCUS.  [Aside]  Though I am not naturally honest, I am so
AUTOLYCUS.  [Aside]  Very wisely, puppies!
AUTOLYCUS.  [Grovelling on the ground]  O that ever I was born!
AUTOLYCUS. A fellow, sir, that I have known to go about with
AUTOLYCUS. A footman, sweet sir, a footman.
AUTOLYCUS. A lie: you are rough and hairy. Let me have no lying; it
AUTOLYCUS. Adieu, sir.
AUTOLYCUS. After I have done what I promised?
AUTOLYCUS. Age, thou hast lost thy labour.
AUTOLYCUS. And indeed, sir, there are cozeners abroad; therefore it
AUTOLYCUS. And you shall pay well for 'em.
AUTOLYCUS. Are you in camest, sir?  [Aside]  I smell the trick
AUTOLYCUS. Ay, an it like your good worship.
AUTOLYCUS. Beseech you, sir, were you present at this relation?
AUTOLYCUS. Five justices' hands at it; and witnesses more than my
AUTOLYCUS. Get you hence, for I must go
AUTOLYCUS. Ha, ha! what a fool Honesty is! and Trust, his sworn
AUTOLYCUS. He has a son- who shall be flay'd alive; then 'nointed
AUTOLYCUS. Here's another ballad, of a fish that appeared upon the
AUTOLYCUS. Here's one to a very doleful tune: how a usurer's wife
AUTOLYCUS. Here's the midwife's name to't, one Mistress Taleporter,
AUTOLYCUS. How blessed are we that are not simple men!
AUTOLYCUS. I am a poor fellow, sir.
AUTOLYCUS. I am a poor fellow, sir.  [Aside]  I know ye well
AUTOLYCUS. I am robb'd, sir, and beaten; my money and apparel ta'en
AUTOLYCUS. I can bear my part; you must know 'tis my occupation.
AUTOLYCUS. I hope so, sir; for I have about me many parcels of
AUTOLYCUS. I humbly beseech you, sir, to pardon me all the faults I
AUTOLYCUS. I know you are now, sir, a gentleman born.
AUTOLYCUS. I must confess to you, sir, I am no fighter; I am false
AUTOLYCUS. I understand the business, I hear it. To have an open
AUTOLYCUS. I will prove so, sir, to my power.
AUTOLYCUS. I will trust you. Walk before toward the sea-side; go on
AUTOLYCUS. I would most gladly know the issue of it.
AUTOLYCUS. If I had a mind to be honest, I see Fortune would not
AUTOLYCUS. If that shepherd be not in hand-fast, let him fly; the
AUTOLYCUS. Indeed, I have had earnest; but I cannot with conscience
AUTOLYCUS. Neither.
AUTOLYCUS. Neither.
AUTOLYCUS. No, good sweet sir; no, I beseech you, sir. I have a
AUTOLYCUS. No, good-fac'd sir; no, sweet sir.
AUTOLYCUS. Not he alone shall suffer what wit can make heavy and
AUTOLYCUS. Now, had I not the dash of my former life in me, would
AUTOLYCUS. O sir, the loathsomeness of them offend me more than the
AUTOLYCUS. O, good sir, softly, good sir; I fear, sir, my shoulder
AUTOLYCUS. O, good sir, tenderly, O!
AUTOLYCUS. O, help me, help me! Pluck but off these rags; and then,
AUTOLYCUS. O, that's the case of the shepherd's son! Hang him,
AUTOLYCUS. Prosper you, sweet sir!                  Exit CLOWN
AUTOLYCUS. Softly, dear sir  [Picks his pocket];  good sir, softly.
AUTOLYCUS. Sweet sir, much better than I was; I can stand and walk.
AUTOLYCUS. The King is not at the palace; he is gone aboard a new
AUTOLYCUS. The fardel there? What's i' th' fardel? Wherefore that
AUTOLYCUS. This is a merry ballad, but a very pretty one.
AUTOLYCUS. Very true, and but a month old.
AUTOLYCUS. Very true, sir; he, sir, he; that's the rogue that put
AUTOLYCUS. Vices, I would say, sir. I know this man well; he hath
AUTOLYCUS. Well, give me the moiety. Are you a party in this
AUTOLYCUS. What advocate hast thou to him?
AUTOLYCUS. Whether it like me or no, I am a courtier. Seest thou
AUTOLYCUS. Why, this is a passing merry one, and goes to the tune
AUTOLYCUS. Your affairs there, what, with whom, the condition of
Accomplished in himself, not in his case,
Against the thing he sought he would exclaim;
All aids, themselves made fairer by their place,
All kind of arguments and question deep,
All melting; though our drops this diff'rence bore:
All replication prompt, and reason strong,
All vows and consecrations giving place,
And bastards of his foul adulterate heart.
And be not of my holy vows afraid.
And comely distant sits he by her side;
And controversy hence a question takes
And credent soul to that strong-bonded oath,
And deep-brained sonnets that did amplify
And dialogued for him what he would say,
And down I laid to list the sad-tuned tale,
And every light occasion of the wind
And knew the patterns of his foul beguiling;
And labouring in moe pleasures to bestow them
And makes her absence valiant, not her might.
And mine I pour your ocean all among.
And new pervert a reconciled maid.'
And nice affections wavering stood in doubt
And now she would the caged cloister fly.
And now to tempt all liberty procured.
And often kissed, and often 'gan to tear;
And often reading what contents it bears;
And reigned commanding in his monarchy.
And so much less of shame in me remains
And supplicant their sighs to your extend,
And sweetens, in the suff'ring pangs it bears,
And was my own fee-simple, not in part,
And when in his fair parts she did abide,
And, privileged by age, desires to know
And, true to bondage, would not break from thence,
And, veiled in them, did win whom he would maim.
Appear to him as he to me appears,
Applied to cautels, all strange forms receives,
Are errors of the blood, none of the mind;
As compound love to physic your cold breast.
As oft 'twixt May and April is to see,
As often shrieking undistinguished woe,
As they did batt'ry to the spheres intend;
Asked their own wills, and made their wills obey.
Ay me, I fell, and yet do question make
Believed her eyes when they t'assail begun,
Bidding them find their sepulchres in mud;
Big discontents so breaking their contents.
Both fire from hence and chill extincture hath.
But kept cold distance, and did thence remove
But with the inundation of the eyes
But yield them up where I myself must render-
By blunting us to make our wills more keen.
By how much of me their reproach contains.
CAMILLO.  [Aside]  What I do next shall be to tell the King
CAMILLO.  [seeing AUTOLYCUS]  Who have we here?
CAMILLO. A course more promising
CAMILLO. Be advis'd.
CAMILLO. Even he, my lord.
CAMILLO. Gracious, my lord,
CAMILLO. Have you thought on
CAMILLO. He tells her something
CAMILLO. He's irremovable,
CAMILLO. How now, good fellow! Why shak'st thou so?
CAMILLO. I cannot say 'tis pity
CAMILLO. I have heard, sir, of such a man, who hath a daughter of
CAMILLO. I should leave grazing, were I of your flock,
CAMILLO. I willingly obey your command.
CAMILLO. It is fifteen years since I saw my country; though I have
CAMILLO. My lord,
CAMILLO. My lord, your sorrow was too sore laid on,
CAMILLO. Nay, but my letters, by this means being there
CAMILLO. Nay, prithee dispatch. The gentleman is half flay'd
CAMILLO. Nay, you shall have no hat.
CAMILLO. No remedy.
CAMILLO. O my lord,
CAMILLO. Sent by the King your father
CAMILLO. Shall satisfy your father.
CAMILLO. She hangs about his neck.
CAMILLO. Sir, I think
CAMILLO. Sir, it is three days since I saw the Prince. What his
CAMILLO. The swifter speed the better.
CAMILLO. Then list to me.
CAMILLO. This is desperate, sir.
CAMILLO. This shows a sound affection.
CAMILLO. Unbuckle, unbuckle.
CAMILLO. Well, my lord,
CAMILLO. Why, be so still; here's nobody will steal that from thee.
CAMILLO. Why, how now, father!
CAMILLO. Yea, say you so?
CLEOMENES, DION. All this we swear.
CLEOMENES. But of all, the burst
CLEOMENES. Good madam-
CLEOMENES. Great Apollo
CLEOMENES. Not at all, good lady.
CLEOMENES. Sir, you have done enough, and have perform'd
CLEOMENES. The climate's delicate, the air most sweet,
CLEOMENES. You tempt him over-much.
CLOWN. Advocate's the court-word for a pheasant; say you have none.
CLOWN. Alack, poor soul! thou hast need of more rags to lay on
CLOWN. Alas, poor man! a million of beating may come to a great
CLOWN. Alas, poor soul!
CLOWN. Ay, and have been so any time these four hours.
CLOWN. Ay, by any means, prove a tall fellow. If I do not wonder
CLOWN. Ay; or else 'twere hard luck, being in so preposterous
CLOWN. Believe me, thou talkest of an admirable conceited fellow.
CLOWN. Come on, lay it by; and let's first see moe ballads; we'll
CLOWN. Come on, strike up.
CLOWN. Comfort, good comfort! We must to the King and show our
CLOWN. Dost lack any money? I have a little money for thee.
CLOWN. Fear not thou, man; thou shalt lose nothing here.
CLOWN. Give me thy hand. I will swear to the Prince thou art as
CLOWN. Go you the next way with your findings. I'll go see if the
CLOWN. Has the old man e'er a son, sir, do you hear, an't like you,
CLOWN. Have I not told thee how I was cozen'd by the way, and lost
CLOWN. He could never come better; he shall come in. I love a
CLOWN. He seems to be of great authority. Close with him, give him
CLOWN. He seems to be the more noble in being fantastical.
CLOWN. Hilloa, loa!
CLOWN. His vices, you would say; there's no virtue whipt out of the
CLOWN. How do you now?
CLOWN. How now! Canst stand?
CLOWN. I cannot do 't without counters. Let me see: what am I to
CLOWN. I have seen two such sights, by sea and by land! But I am
CLOWN. I would you did but see how it chafes, how it rages, how it
CLOWN. I would you had been by the ship-side, to have help'd her;
CLOWN. I' th' name of me!
CLOWN. If I were not in love with Mopsa, thou shouldst take no
CLOWN. If it be ne'er so false, a true gentleman may swear it in
CLOWN. In some sort, sir; but though my case be a pitiful one, I
CLOWN. Indeed, brother-in-law was the farthest off you could have
CLOWN. Indeed, he should be a footman, by the garments he has left
CLOWN. Is there no manners left among maids? Will they wear their
CLOWN. Lay it by too. Another.
CLOWN. Let me see: every 'leven wether tods; every tod yields pound
CLOWN. Marry, will I; and you shall help to put him i' th' ground.
CLOWN. Nay- but hear me.
CLOWN. Not a more cowardly rogue in all Bohemia; if you had but
CLOWN. Not a word, a word; we stand upon our manners.
CLOWN. Not swear it, now I am a gentleman? Let boors and franklins
CLOWN. Now, now; I have not wink'd since I saw these sights; the
CLOWN. Out upon him! prig, for my life, prig! He haunts wakes,
CLOWN. Pray heartily he be at palace.
CLOWN. Prithee bring him in; and let him approach singing.
CLOWN. See, see; what a man you are now! There is no other way but
CLOWN. Shall I bring thee on the way?
CLOWN. She being none of your flesh and blood, your flesh and blood
CLOWN. So you have; but I was a gentleman born before my father;
CLOWN. Then fare thee well. I must go buy spices for our
CLOWN. Think you so, sir?
CLOWN. This cannot be but a great courtier.
CLOWN. Thou wilt amend thy life?
CLOWN. We are blest in this man, as I may say, even blest.
CLOWN. We are but plain fellows, sir.
CLOWN. We'll have this song out anon by ourselves; my father and
CLOWN. What hast here? Ballads?
CLOWN. What manner of fellow was he that robb'd you?
CLOWN. What, by a horseman or a footman?
CLOWN. You are well met, sir. You denied to fight with me this
CLOWN. You have of these pedlars that have more in them than you'd
CLOWN. You're a made old man; if the sins of your youth are
CLOWN. Your worship had like to have given us one, if you had not
Came for additions; yet their purposed trim
Catching all passions in his craft of will,
Consents bewitched, ere he desire, have granted,
Could scape the hail of his all-hurting aim,
Counsel may stop awhile what will not stay;
Cracked many a ring of posied gold and bone,
Cried, 'O false blood, thou register of lies,
DION. I shall report,
DION. If th' event o' th' journey
DION. If you would not so,
DION. The violent carriage of it
DORCAS.        Whither?
DORCAS.    If to either, thou dost ill.
DORCAS.    Me too! Let me go thither
DORCAS.    Thou hast sworn my love to be.
DORCAS.    What, neither?
DORCAS.    Whither?
DORCAS. Bless me from marrying a usurer!
DORCAS. He hath promis'd you more than that, or there be liars.
DORCAS. Is it true too, think you?
DORCAS. Mopsa must be your mistress; marry, garlic,
DORCAS. We had the tune on't a month ago.
Demand of him, nor being desired yielded;
Did livery falseness in a pride of truth.
EMILIA. Now be you blest for it!
Each cheek a river running from a fount
Each eye that saw him did enchant the mind;
Each stone's dear nature, worth, and quality.
Effects of terror and dear modesty,
Embrace fond woe, or cast our cares away;
Encamped in hearts, but fighting outwardly.
Enswathed and sealed to curious secrecy.
Ere long espied a fickle maid full pale,
Even there resolved my reason into tears;
Experience for me many bulwarks builded
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Are they returned to the court?
FIRST GENTLEMAN. I make a broken delivery of the business; but the
FIRST GENTLEMAN. I was by at the opening of the fardel, heard the
FIRST GENTLEMAN. The dignity of this act was worth the audience of
FIRST GENTLEMAN. What became of his bark and his followers?
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Who would be thence that has the benefit of
FIRST LORD. Beseech your Highness, give us better credit.
FIRST LORD. Say no more;
FIRST LORD. So please you, sir, their speed
FIRST LORD. The higher pow'rs forbid!
FIRST LORD. This your request
FIRST LORD. What fit is this, good lady?
FIRST LORD. You must not enter.
FIRST SERVANT. He took good rest to-night;
FIRST SERVANT. My lord?
FLORIZEL. And he, and more
FLORIZEL. And those that you'll procure from King Leontes?
FLORIZEL. Apprehend
FLORIZEL. By his command
FLORIZEL. Camillo has betray'd me;
FLORIZEL. Come, come, he must not.
FLORIZEL. Dear, look up.
FLORIZEL. Dispatch, I prithee.
FLORIZEL. Do, and be witness to't.
FLORIZEL. Fortune speed us!
FLORIZEL. Good, my lord,
FLORIZEL. Hark, Perdita.                     [Takes her aside]
FLORIZEL. He neither does nor shall.
FLORIZEL. He shall not.
FLORIZEL. How, Camillo,
FLORIZEL. I am bound to you.
FLORIZEL. I am- and by my fancy; if my reason
FLORIZEL. I bless the time
FLORIZEL. I have, but what of him?
FLORIZEL. I not purpose it.
FLORIZEL. I think you have
FLORIZEL. I yield all this;
FLORIZEL. It cannot fail but by
FLORIZEL. Most royal sir, from thence; from him whose daughter
FLORIZEL. My good Camillo,
FLORIZEL. My prettiest Perdita!
FLORIZEL. No, good sir;
FLORIZEL. No, he must not.
FLORIZEL. Not any yet;
FLORIZEL. Now, good Camillo,
FLORIZEL. O Perdita, what have we twain forgot!
FLORIZEL. O, that must be
FLORIZEL. Old sir, I know
FLORIZEL. See, your guests approach.
FLORIZEL. She is,
FLORIZEL. Should I now meet my father,
FLORIZEL. So call it; but it does fulfil my vow:
FLORIZEL. These your unusual weeds to each part of you
FLORIZEL. Thou dearest Perdita,
FLORIZEL. Very nobly
FLORIZEL. We are not, sir, nor are we like to be;
FLORIZEL. What you do
FLORIZEL. What, like a corse?
FLORIZEL. Why look you so upon me?
FLORIZEL. Worthy Camillo,
Feeling it break, with bleeding groans they pine,
Figuring that they their passions likewise lent me
Finding myself in honour so forbid,
For fear of harms that preach in our behoof.
For feasts of love I have been called unto,
For his advantage still did wake and sleep.
For maiden-tongued he was, and thereof free;
For on his visage was in little drawn
For she was sought by spirits of richest coat,
For some, untucked, descended her sheaved hat,
For these, of force, must your oblations be,
For thou art all, and all things else are thine.
For when we rage, advice is often seen
Found yet moe letters sadly penned in blood,
Fresh to myself, if I had self-applied
From off a hill whose concave womb reworded
GAOLER. I do believe it.
GAOLER. Madam, if't please the Queen to send the babe,
GENTLEMAN. Ay; the most peerless piece of earth, I think,
GENTLEMAN. But few,
GENTLEMAN. One that gives out himself Prince Florizel,
GENTLEMAN. Pardon, madam.
GENTLEMAN. Women will love her that she is a woman
HERMIONE. More than mistress of
HERMIONE. Praised!
HERMIONE. Since what I am to say must be but that
HERMIONE. Sir,
HERMIONE. Sir, spare your threats.
HERMIONE. That's true enough;
HERMIONE. The Emperor of Russia was my father;
HERMIONE. You gods, look down,
Hallowed with sighs that burning lungs did raise;
Hanging her pale and pined cheek beside;
Harm have I done to them, but ne'er was harmed;
Have emptied all their fountains in my well,
Have of my suffering youth some feeling pity,
He had the dialect and different skill,
He preached pure maid and praised cold chastity.
Heard where his plants in others' orchards grew;
Her grievance with his hearing to divide.
Her hair, nor loose nor tied in formal plat,
His phoenix down began but to appear,
His poisoned me, and mine did him restore.
His real habitude gave life and grace
His rudeness so with his authorized youth
How coldly those impediments stand forth,
I have receiv'd from many a several fair,
I might as yet have been a spreading flower,
I strong o'er them, and you o'er me being strong,
If best were as it was, or best without.
If that from him there may be aught applied
In bloodless white and the encrimsoned mood-
In brief the grounds and motives of her woe.
In clamours of all size, both high and low.
In either's aptness, as it best deceives,
In personal duty, following where he haunted.
In the small orb of one particular tear!
In thee hath neither sting, knot, nor confine,
Ink would have seemed more black and damned here!
Kept hearts in liveries, but mine own was free,
Knew vows were ever brokers to defiling;
LEONTES. A callat
LEONTES. A gross hag!
LEONTES. A nest of traitors!
LEONTES. Apollo's angry; and the heavens themselves
LEONTES. As now she might have done,
LEONTES. Break up the seals and read.
LEONTES. Do not draw the curtain.
LEONTES. Do, Paulina;
LEONTES. Force her hence.
LEONTES. Go on, go on.
LEONTES. Go, Cleomenes;
LEONTES. Good Paulina,
LEONTES. Good Queen!
LEONTES. Hast thou read truth?
LEONTES. He dreads his wife.
LEONTES. Her natural posture!
LEONTES. His princess, say you, with him?
LEONTES. How does the boy?
LEONTES. How!
LEONTES. How! Gone?
LEONTES. I am a feather for each wind that blows.
LEONTES. I ne'er heard yet
LEONTES. I think so. Kill'd!
LEONTES. I thought of her
LEONTES. I'll ha' thee burnt.
LEONTES. It shall be possible. Swear by this sword
LEONTES. Let be, let be.
LEONTES. Mark, and perform it- seest thou? For the fail
LEONTES. My lord,
LEONTES. My true Paulina,
LEONTES. Never, Paulina; so be blest my spirit!
LEONTES. No, I'll not rear
LEONTES. No, not these twenty years.
LEONTES. Nor night nor day no rest! It is but weakness
LEONTES. O Paulina,
LEONTES. O grave and good Paulina, the great comfort
LEONTES. O my brother-
LEONTES. O peace, Paulina!
LEONTES. O sweet Paulina,
LEONTES. O, she's warm!
LEONTES. On your allegiance,
LEONTES. Once more, take her hence.
LEONTES. Out!
LEONTES. Prithee no more; cease. Thou know'st
LEONTES. Proceed.
LEONTES. Read the indictment.
LEONTES. She had; and would incense me
LEONTES. Stars, stars,
LEONTES. Take her hence.
LEONTES. That 'once,' I see by your good father's speed,
LEONTES. The blessed gods
LEONTES. The fixture of her eye has motion in't,
LEONTES. There is no truth at all i' th' oracle.
LEONTES. This sessions, to our great grief we pronounce,
LEONTES. Thou didst speak but well
LEONTES. Thou speak'st truth.
LEONTES. Thou, traitor, hast set on thy wife to this.
LEONTES. To see his nobleness!
LEONTES. Traitors!
LEONTES. Twenty-three days
LEONTES. What is the business?
LEONTES. What noise there, ho?
LEONTES. What with him? He comes not
LEONTES. What you can make her do
LEONTES. What, canst not rule her?
LEONTES. Where the warlike Smalus,
LEONTES. Where's Bohemia? Speak.
LEONTES. Whilst I remember
LEONTES. Who? Camillo?
LEONTES. Would he do so, I'd beg your precious mistress,
LEONTES. You are married?
LEONTES. You knew of his departure, as you know
LEONTES. You will not own it.
LEONTES. You're liars all.
LEONTES. Your actions are my dreams.
LORD. Camillo, sir; I spake with him; who now
LORD. Here in your city; I now came from him.
LORD. Lay't so to his charge;
LORD. Most noble sir,
LORDS. Now blessed be the great Apollo!
LORDS. We can. My royal liege,
Laund'ring the silken figures in the brine
Lending soft audience to my sweet design,
Let it not tell your judgement I am old:
Like fools that in th' imagination set
Like unshorn velvet, on that termless skin,
Like usury applying wet to wet,
Love lacked a dwelling and made him her place;
Love made them not; with acture they may be,
Love to myself, and to no love beside.
Love's arms are peace, 'gainst rule, 'gainst sense, 'gainst shame.
MARINER. Ay, my lord, and fear
MARINER. I am glad at heart
MARINER. Make your best haste; and go not
MOPSA.       O, whither?
MOPSA.     It becomes thy oath full well
MOPSA.     Or thou goest to th' grange or mill.
MOPSA.     Thou hast sworn it more to me.
MOPSA. He hath paid you all he promis'd you. May be he has paid you
MOPSA. I have done. Come, you promis'd me a tawdry-lace, and a pair
MOPSA. I was promis'd them against the feast; but they come not too
MOPSA. Is it true, think you?
MOPSA. Let's have some merry ones.
MOPSA. Now, in good time!
MOPSA. Pray now, buy some. I love a ballad in print a-life, for
MOPSA. Pray you now, buy it.
MOPSA. can both sing it. If thou'lt bear a part, thou shalt hear;
Must for your victory us all congest,
My spirits t'attend this double voice accorded,
My woeful self, that did in freedom stand,
Nature hath charged me that I hoard them not,
Nor youth all quit, but spite of heaven's fell rage
Not age, but sorrow, over me hath power.
Not one whose flame my heart so much as warmed,
Not to be tempted, would she be immured,
Nought may endure but mutability!
O appetite, from judgement stand aloof!
O cleft effect! cold modesty, hot wrath,
O most potential love, vow, bond, nor space,
O, all that borrowed motion, seeming owed,
O, how the channel to the stream gave grace!
O, one by nature's outwards so commended
O, that false fire which in his cheek so glowed,
O, that forced thunder from his heart did fly,
O, that sad breath his spongy lungs bestowed,
OFFICER.  [Reads]  'Hermione is chaste; Polixenes blameless;
OFFICER.  [Reads]  'Hermione, Queen to the worthy Leontes, King of
OFFICER. Ay, my lord; even so
OFFICER. It is his Highness' pleasure that the Queen
OFFICER. You here shall swear upon this sword of justice
Of amber, crystal, and of beaded jet,
Of burning blushes or of weeping water,
Of court, of city, and had let go by
Of folded schedules had she many a one,
Of grief and blushes, aptly understood
Of lands and mansions, theirs in thought assigned;
Of paled pearls and rubies red as blood;
Of pensived and subdued desires the tender,
Of proofs new-bleeding, which remained the foil
Of stale example? When thou wilt inflame,
Of this false jewel, and his amorous spoil.
Of wealth, of filial fear, law, kindred, fame!
Of young, of old, and sexes both enchanted,
Oft did she heave her napkin to her eyne,
Or any of my leisures ever charmed.
Or forced examples, 'gainst her own content,
Or he his manage by th' well-doing steed.
Or monarchs' hands that lets not bounty fall
Or my affection put to th' smallest teen,
Or sister sanctified, of holiest note,
Or swooning paleness; and he takes and leaves,
Or to turn white and swoon at tragic shows;
PAULINA. A most unworthy and unnatural lord
PAULINA. And left them
PAULINA. As she liv'd peerless,
PAULINA. Do not you fear. Upon mine honour, I
PAULINA. Either forbear,
PAULINA. For ever
PAULINA. From all dishonesty he can: in this,
PAULINA. Good Queen, my lord, good Queen- I say good Queen;
PAULINA. Good my liege, I come-
PAULINA. Good my lord, forbear.
PAULINA. Had our prince,
PAULINA. Had she such power,
PAULINA. How! not women?
PAULINA. I am sorry for't.
PAULINA. I am sorry, sir, I have thus far stirr'd you; but
PAULINA. I care not.
PAULINA. I have done.
PAULINA. I pray you, do not push me; I'll be gone.
PAULINA. I say she's dead; I'll swear't. If word nor oath
PAULINA. I should so.
PAULINA. I'll draw the curtain.
PAULINA. Indeed, my lord,
PAULINA. It is requir'd
PAULINA. It is yours.
PAULINA. Let him that makes but trifles of his eyes
PAULINA. Music, awake her: strike.                     [Music]
PAULINA. Nay, rather, good my lords, be second to me.
PAULINA. No longer shall you gaze on't, lest your fancy
PAULINA. No noise, my lord; but needful conference
PAULINA. Nor I; nor any
PAULINA. Not so hot, good sir;
PAULINA. Not so.
PAULINA. O Hermione,
PAULINA. O, patience!
PAULINA. Sir, my liege,
PAULINA. So I would you did; then 'twere past all doubt
PAULINA. So much the more our carver's excellence,
PAULINA. Tell her, Emilia,
PAULINA. That
PAULINA. That she is living,
PAULINA. Then, good my lords, bear witness to his oath.
PAULINA. There is none worthy,
PAULINA. There's time enough for that,
PAULINA. This news is mortal to the Queen. Look down
PAULINA. True, too true, my lord.
PAULINA. Unless another,
PAULINA. What studied torments, tyrant, hast for me?
PAULINA. What, sovereign sir,
PAULINA. Will you swear
PAULINA. Woe the while!
PAULINA. You are one of those
PAULINA. You need not fear it, sir.
PERDITA.  [To POLIXENES]  Sir, welcome.
PERDITA. And give me leave,
PERDITA. Ay, good brother, or go about to think.
PERDITA. Even here undone!
PERDITA. For I have heard it said
PERDITA. Forewarn him that he use no scurrilous words in's tunes.
PERDITA. Happy be you!
PERDITA. How often have I told you 'twould be thus!
PERDITA. I cannot speak
PERDITA. I see the play so lies
PERDITA. I'll not put
PERDITA. I'll swear for 'em.
PERDITA. No; like a bank for love to lie and play on;
PERDITA. Now Jove afford you cause!
PERDITA. O Doricles,
PERDITA. O Lady Fortune,
PERDITA. O my poor father!
PERDITA. O, but, sir,
PERDITA. One of these is true:
PERDITA. Out, alas!
PERDITA. Sir, my gracious lord,
PERDITA. Sir, the year growing ancient,
PERDITA. So it is.
PERDITA. So long could I
PERDITA. Your pardon, sir; for this
POLIXENES.  [Discovering himself]  Mark your divorce, young sir,
POLIXENES.  [To SHEPHERD]  O, father, you'll know more of that
POLIXENES. And this my neighbour too?
POLIXENES. As thou lov'st me, Camillo, wipe not out the rest of thy
POLIXENES. Ay, and make it manifest where she has liv'd,
POLIXENES. By my white beard,
POLIXENES. Dear my brother,
POLIXENES. Fairly offer'd.
POLIXENES. I have considered so much, Camillo, and with some care,
POLIXENES. I pray thee, good Camillo, be no more importunate: 'tis
POLIXENES. I'll have thy beauty scratch'd with briers and made
POLIXENES. Knows he of this?
POLIXENES. Let him know't.
POLIXENES. Masterly done!
POLIXENES. Methinks a father
POLIXENES. My best Camillo! We must disguise ourselves.
POLIXENES. O, not by much!
POLIXENES. Pray, good shepherd, what fair swain is this
POLIXENES. Prithee let him.
POLIXENES. Say there be;
POLIXENES. She dances featly.
POLIXENES. She embraces him.
POLIXENES. Shepherdess-
POLIXENES. Soft, swain, awhile, beseech you;
POLIXENES. That's likewise part of my intelligence; but, I fear, the
POLIXENES. Then make your garden rich in gillyvors,
POLIXENES. This is a brave fellow.
POLIXENES. This is the prettiest low-born lass that ever
POLIXENES. What follows this?
POLIXENES. Wherefore, gentle maiden,
POLIXENES. You weary those that refresh us. Pray, let's see these
Pierced not his grace, but were all graced by him.
Playing patient sports in unconstrained gyves!
Playing the place which did no form receive,
Proclaimed in her a careless hand of pride;
Proud of subjection, noble by the sway,
Religious love put out religion's eye.
Reserved the stalk and gave him all my flower.
SECOND GENTLEMAN. I thought she had some great matter there in
SECOND GENTLEMAN. No.
SECOND GENTLEMAN. Nothing but bonfires. The oracle is fulfill'd:
SECOND GENTLEMAN. What, pray you, became of Antigonus, that carried
SECOND SERVANT. Madam, he hath not slept to-night; commanded
SERVANT. He hath ribbons of all the colours i' th' rainbow; points,
SERVANT. He hath songs for man or woman of all sizes; no milliner
SERVANT. Is dead.
SERVANT. Master, there is three carters, three shepherds, three
SERVANT. My lord the King, the King!
SERVANT. O master, if you did but hear the pedlar at the door, you
SERVANT. O sir, I shall be hated to report it:
SERVANT. One three of them, by their own report, sir, hath danc'd
SERVANT. Please your Highness, posts
SERVANT. Why, they stay at door, sir.                     Exit
SHEPHERD. 'Tis a lucky day, boy; and we'll do good deeds on't.
SHEPHERD. An't please you, sir, to undertake the business for us,
SHEPHERD. And so have I, boy.
SHEPHERD. Are you a courtier, an't like you, sir?
SHEPHERD. Away! We'll none on't; here has been too much homely
SHEPHERD. Ay, sir.
SHEPHERD. But, my daughter,
SHEPHERD. Come, boy; I am past moe children, but thy sons and
SHEPHERD. Come, your hand;
SHEPHERD. Fie, daughter! When my old wife liv'd, upon
SHEPHERD. Go to, then.
SHEPHERD. Heavy matters, heavy matters! But look thee here, boy.
SHEPHERD. His garments are rich, but he wears them not handsomely.
SHEPHERD. How if it be false, son?
SHEPHERD. I cannot speak nor think,
SHEPHERD. I know not, an't like you.
SHEPHERD. I will tell the King all, every word- yea, and his son's
SHEPHERD. I would there were no age between ten and three and
SHEPHERD. Leave your prating; since these good men are pleas'd, let
SHEPHERD. Let him, my son; he shall not need to grieve
SHEPHERD. Let's before, as he bids us. He was provided to do us
SHEPHERD. My business, sir, is to the King.
SHEPHERD. Name of mercy, when was this, boy?
SHEPHERD. Nay, but hear me.
SHEPHERD. None, sir; I have no pheasant, cock nor hen.
SHEPHERD. O, my heart!
SHEPHERD. Prithee, son, do; for we must be gentle, now we are
SHEPHERD. Sir, there lies such secrets in this fardel and box which
SHEPHERD. So 'tis said, sir- about his son, that should have
SHEPHERD. So she does any thing; though I report it
SHEPHERD. Take hands, a bargain!
SHEPHERD. That's a good deed. If thou mayest discern by that which
SHEPHERD. They call him Doricles, and boasts himself
SHEPHERD. This is fairy gold, boy, and 'twill prove so. Up with't,
SHEPHERD. To th' palace, an it like your worship.
SHEPHERD. We may live, son, to shed many more.
SHEPHERD. Well, let us to the King. There is that in this fardel
SHEPHERD. What, art so near? If thou'lt see a thing to talk on when
SHEPHERD. Why, Sir?
SHEPHERD. Why, boy, how is it?
SHEPHERD. Would I had been by to have help'd the old man!
SHEPHERD. You may say it, but not swear it.
Saw how deceits were gilded in his smiling;
She that her fame so to herself contrives,
She was new lodged and newly deified.
Shook off my sober guards and civil fears;
Showing fair nature is both kind and tame;
Since I their altar, you enpatron me.
So slides he down upon his grained bat,
Some beauty peeped through lattice of seared age.
Some in her threaden fillet still did bide,
Sometime a blusterer that the ruffle knew
Sometime diverted their poor balls are tied
Sometimes her levelled eyes their carriage ride,
Storming her world with sorrow's wind and rain.
Sweetly supposed them mistress of his heart.
THIRD GENTLEMAN. Like an old tale still, which will have matter to
THIRD GENTLEMAN. Most true, if ever truth were pregnant by
THIRD GENTLEMAN. No. The Princess hearing of her mother's statue,
THIRD GENTLEMAN. One of the prettiest touches of all, and that
THIRD GENTLEMAN. Then you have lost a sight which was to be seen,
THIRD GENTLEMAN. Wreck'd the same instant of their master's death,
TIME. I, that please some, try all, both joy and terror
Take all these similes to your own command,
Tearing of papers, breaking rings atwain,
Than the true gouty landlord which doth owe them.
That flame through water which their hue encloses.
That is, to you, my origin and ender;
That maidens' eyes stuck over all his face.
That seasoned woe had pelleted in tears,
That shall prefer and undertake my troth."
That th' unexperient gave the tempter place,
That we must curb it upon others' proof,
That's to ye sworn to none was ever said;
The accident which brought me to her eye
The aloes of all forces, shocks and fears.
The broken bosoms that to me belong
The carcase of a beauty spent and done.
The deep-green em'rald, in whose fresh regard
The destined ill she must herself assay?
The goodly objects which abroad they find
The heaven-hued sapphire and the opal blend
The injury of many a blasting hour,
The mind and sight distractedly commixed.
The naked and concealed fiend he covered,
The one a palate hath that needs will taste,
The path of its departure still is free.
The scars of battle scapeth by the flight,
The swiftest hours observed as they flew,
The thing we have not, mast'ring what not strives,
Their distract parcels in combined sums.
Their kind acceptance weepingly beseeched,
Their view right on; anon their gazes lend
There my white stole of chastity I daffed,
These often bathed she in her fluxive eyes,
They sought their shame that so their shame did find;
This said, in top of rage the lines she rents,
Though Reason weep, and cry it is thy last.
Though slackly braided in loose negligence.
Thought characters and words merely but art,
Threw my affections in his charmed power
Till now did ne'er invite nor never woo.
Till thus he 'gan besiege me: "Gentle maid,
Time had not scythed all that youth begun,
To appertainings and to ornament,
To be forbod the sweets that seems so good
To blush at speeches rank, to weep at woes,
To dwell with him in thoughts, or to remain
To every place at once, and nowhere fixed,
To leave the batt'ry that you make 'gainst mine,
To make the weeper laugh, the laugher weep,
To put the by-past perils in her way?
To serve their eyes, and in it put their mind;
To spend her living in eternal love.
To th' orbed earth; sometimes they do extend
Towards this afflicted fancy fastly drew;
Upon her head a platted hive of straw,
Upon his lips their silken parcels hurls.
Upon the moment did her force subdue,
Upon whose weeping margent she was set;
We rise; one wand'ring thought pollutes the day.
Weak sights their sickly radiance do amend;
What I should do again for such a sake.
What breast so cold that is not warmed here?
What largeness thinks in Paradise was sawn.
What me your minister for you obeys
What rocky heart to water will not wear?
What rounds, what bounds, what course, what stop he makes!"
What unapproved witness dost thou bear!
What with his art in youth, and youth in art,
What's sweet to do, to do will aptly find:
When he again desires her, being sat,
When he most burned in heart-wished luxury,
When winds breathe sweet, unruly though they be.
Where neither party is nor true nor kind.
Where want cries some, but where excess begs all.
Whereon the thought might think sometime it saw
Whereto his invised properties did tend;
Whether the horse by him became his deed,
Which fortified her visage from the sun,
Which late her noble suit in court did shun,
Which may her suffering ecstasy assuage,
Which on it had conceited characters,
Which one by one she in a river threw,
Which she perused, sighed, tore, and gave the flood;
Which, like a cherubin, above them hovered.
Who glazed with crystal gate the glowing roses
Who, disciplined, ay, dieted in grace,
Who, young and simple, would not be so lovered?
Whose bare out-bragged the web it seemed to wear:
Whose rarest havings made the blossoms dote;
Whose sights till then were levelled on my face;
Whose white weighs down the airy scale of praise;
With brinish current downward flowed apace.
With objects manifold; each several stone,
With safest distance I mine honour shielded.
With sleided silk feat and affectedly
With the annexions of fair gems enriched,
With twisted metal amorously empleached,
With wit well blazoned, smiled, or made some moan.
Works under you; and to your audit comes
Would yet again betray the fore-betrayed,
Yet if men moved him, was he such a storm
Yet showed his visage by that cost more dear;
And turns no more his head;
And, having once turned round, walks on,
Because he knows a frightful fiend
Doth close behind him tread.
Doth walk in fear and dread,
It is the same:  for, be it joy or sorrow,
Like one who, on a lonely road,
Man's yesterday may ne'er be like his morrow;
We feel, conceive, or reason; laugh or weep,
We rest; a dream has power to poison sleep.
[Coleridge's "Ancient Mariner."]
"A considerable period elapsed before I discovered one of the causes of
"A few days after, the Turk entered his daughter's apartment and told
"Abhorred monster!  Fiend that thou art!  The tortures of hell are too
"After some weeks my wound healed, and I continued my journey.  The
"And did the man whom you pursued travel in the same fashion?"
"And do you also believe that I am so very, very wicked?  Do you also
"And now, with the world before me, whither should I bend my steps?  I
"And yet you rescued me from a strange and perilous situation; you have
"Another circumstance strengthened and confirmed these feelings.  Soon
"As I read, however, I applied much personally to my own feelings and
"As night came on, Agatha and the Arabian retired early.  When they
"As soon as I was convinced that no assistance could save any part of
"As the night advanced, a fierce wind arose from the woods and quickly
"As the sun became warmer and the light of day longer, the snow
"As yet I looked upon crime as a distant evil, benevolence and
"At that instant the cottage door was opened, and Felix, Safie, and
"Autumn passed thus.  I saw, with surprise and grief, the leaves decay
"Be calm!  I entreat you to hear me before you give vent to your hatred
"Begone!  I will not hear you.  There can be no community between you
"Being thus provided, I resolved to reside in this hovel until
"But Paradise Lost excited different and far deeper emotions.  I read
"But how was I to direct myself?  I knew that I must travel in a
"But this was a luxury of sensation that could not endure; I became
"But where were my friends and relations?  No father had watched my
"By degrees I made a discovery of still greater moment.  I found that
"Certainly; it would indeed be very impertinent and inhuman in me to
"Come, Victor; not brooding thoughts of vengeance against the assassin,
"Come, dearest Victor; you alone can console Elizabeth.  She weeps
"Cursed, cursed creator!  Why did I live?  Why, in that instant, did I
"Dear, dear Elizabeth!" I exclaimed, when I had read her letter:  "I
"Dearest Clerval," exclaimed I, "how kind, how very good you are to me.
"Dearest niece," said my father, "dry your tears.  If she is, as you
"Devil," I exclaimed, "do you dare approach me?  And do not you fear
"Do not ask me," cried I, putting my hands before my eyes, for I
"During the ensuing days, while the preparations were going forward for
"Elizabeth Lavenza.
"Every conversation of the cottagers now opened new wonders to me.
"Felix conducted the fugitives through France to Lyons and across Mont
"Felix had accidentally been present at the trial; his horror and
"Felix seemed ravished with delight when he saw her, every trait of
"Felix trembled violently as he said this.  He and his companion
"Food, however, became scarce, and I often spent the whole day
"For some weeks I led a miserable life in the woods, endeavouring to
"Geneva, March 18, 17--."
"Geneva, May 12th, 17--."
"Get well--and return to us.  You will find a happy, cheerful home and
"God knows," she said, "how entirely I am innocent.  But I do not
"Good God, papa!  Victor says that he knows who was the murderer of
"Having thus arranged my dwelling and carpeted it with clean straw, I
"He did not succeed.  They remained confined for five months before the
"He was conveyed home, and the anguish that was visible in my
"Here, then, I retreated and lay down happy to have found a shelter,
"How can I move thee?  Will no entreaties cause thee to turn a
"How kind and generous you are! every one else believes in her guilt,
"I am happy," said M. Waldman, "to have gained a disciple; and if your
"I am," said she, "the cousin of the unhappy child who was murdered, or
"I can hardly describe to you the effect of these books.  They produced
"I can offer you no consolation, my friend," said he; "your disaster is
"I cannot describe to you the agony that these reflections inflicted
"I commit my cause to the justice of my judges, yet I see no room for
"I continued for the remainder of the day in my hovel in a state of
"I continued to wind among the paths of the wood, until I came to its
"I could mention innumerable instances which, although slight, marked
"I did confess, but I confessed a lie.  I confessed, that I might
"I discovered also another means through which I was enabled to assist
"I do not know what you mean," replied my brother, in accents of
"I endeavoured to crush these fears and to fortify myself for the trial
"I entered.  `Pardon this intrusion,' said I; `I am a traveller in want
"I expected this reception," said the daemon.  "All men hate the
"I generally rested during the day and travelled only when I was
"I had admired the perfect forms of my cottagers--their grace, beauty,
"I have copies of these letters, for I found means, during my residence
"I have written myself into better spirits, dear cousin; but my anxiety
"I knocked.  `Who is there?' said the old man.  `Come in.'
"I know," continued the unhappy victim, "how heavily and fatally this
"I lay on my straw, but I could not sleep.  I thought of the
"I must say also a few words to you, my dear cousin, of little darling
"I now hasten to the more moving part of my story.  I shall relate
"I paused. This, I thought, was the moment of decision, which was to rob
"I remember, the first time that I did this, the young woman, when she
"I sat down, and a silence ensued.  I knew that every minute was
"I soon perceived that although the stranger uttered articulate sounds
"I spent the winter in this manner.  The gentle manners and beauty of
"I thank you," he replied, "for your sympathy, but it is useless; my
"I truly thank him.  In these last moments I feel the sincerest
"I will not attempt to console you; but will simply relate the
"I will soon explain to what these feelings tended, but allow me now to
"If she is, God forbid that she should suffer as guilty.  She is to be
"If this is your present temper, my friend, you will perhaps be glad to
"In the meanwhile also the black ground was covered with herbage, and
"Is that all, my dear Henry?  How could you suppose that my first
"It gives me the greatest delight to see you; but tell me how you left
"It is with considerable difficulty that I remember the original era of
"It was a lady on horseback, accompanied by a country-man as a guide.
"It was about seven in the morning, and I longed to obtain food and
"It was dark when I awoke; I felt cold also, and half frightened, as it
"It was morning when I awoke, and my first care was to visit the fire.
"It was noon when I awoke, and allured by the warmth of the sun, which
"It was on one of these days, when my cottagers periodically rested
"Justine Moritz!  Poor, poor girl, is she the accused?  But it is
"Justine, you may remember, was a great favourite of yours; and I
"Last Thursday (May 7th), I, my niece, and your two brothers, went to
"Little alteration, except the growth of our dear children, has taken
"My cousin," replied I, "it is decided as you may have expected; all
"My days were spent in close attention, that I might more speedily
"My dear Frankenstein," exclaimed Henry, when he perceived me weep with
"My dear Victor,
"My dear Victor," cried he, "what, for God's sake, is the matter?  Do
"My dear father, you are mistaken; Justine is innocent."
"My dearest Cousin,
"My heart beat quick; this was the hour and moment of trial, which
"My mode of life in my hovel was uniform.  During the morning I
"My thoughts now became more active, and I longed to discover the
"My travels were long and the sufferings I endured intense.  It was
"Night quickly shut in, but to my extreme wonder, I found that the
"No one did at first; but several circumstances came out, that have
"Now, dear Victor, I dare say you wish to be indulged in a little
"Of what a strange nature is knowledge!  It clings to the mind when it
"Oh, Justine!  Forgive me for having for one moment distrusted you.
"Oh, Justine!" said she.  "Why did you rob me of my last consolation?
"On examining my dwelling, I found that one of the windows of the
"One by one, her brothers and sister died; and her mother, with the
"One day, when I was oppressed by cold, I found a fire which had been
"One day, when the sun shone on the red leaves that strewed the ground
"One night during my accustomed visit to the neighbouring wood where I
"Other lessons were impressed upon me even more deeply.  I heard of the
"Presently two countrymen passed by, but pausing near the cottage, they
"Rise, my poor girl," said Elizabeth; "why do you kneel, if you are
"Safie related that her mother was a Christian Arab, seized and made a
"Safie resolved to remain with her father until the moment of his
"Several changes of day and night passed, and the orb of night had
"Several changes, in the meantime, took place in the cottage.  The
"She arrived in safety at a town about twenty leagues from the cottage
"She fainted, and was restored with extreme difficulty.  When she again
"She is innocent, my Elizabeth," said I, "and that shall be proved;
"She most of all," said Ernest, "requires consolation; she accused
"Some time elapsed before I learned the history of my friends.  It was
"Soon a gentle light stole over the heavens and gave me a sensation of
"Soon after this the young man returned, bearing on his shoulders a
"Spring advanced rapidly; the weather became fine and the skies
"Such was the history of my beloved cottagers.  It impressed me deeply.
"Such were the events that preyed on the heart of Felix and rendered
"That evidence," he observed, "was hardly required in so glaring a
"The Turk allowed this intimacy to take place and encouraged the hopes
"The Turk quickly perceived the impression that his daughter had made
"The book from which Felix instructed Safie was Volney's Ruins of
"The cottagers arose the next morning before the sun.  The young woman
"The day for the execution of the Turk was fixed, but on the night
"The days now passed as peaceably as before, with the sole alteration
"The family, after having been thus occupied for a short time,
"The father of Safie had been the cause of their ruin.  He was a
"The government of France were greatly enraged at the escape of their
"The moon had disappeared from the night, and again, with a lessened
"The murderer discovered!  Good God! how can that be? who could attempt
"The name of the old man was De Lacey.  He was descended from a good
"The next morning Felix went out to his work, and after the usual
"The old man had, in the meantime, been pensive, but on the appearance
"The old man paused and then continued, `If you will unreservedly
"The old man, leaning on his son, walked each day at noon, when it did
"The pleasant showers and genial warmth of spring greatly altered the
"The pleasant sunshine and the pure air of day restored me to some
"The sun rose; I heard the voices of men and knew that it was
"The volume of Plutarch's Lives which I possessed contained the
"The winter advanced, and an entire revolution of the seasons had taken
"The words induced me to turn towards myself.  I learned that the
"Then I fancy we have seen him, for the day before we picked you up we
"These thoughts calmed me, and in the afternoon I sank into a profound
"These thoughts exhilarated me and led me to apply with fresh ardour to
"These were the reflections of my hours of despondency and solitude;
"These wonderful narrations inspired me with strange feelings.  Was
"They found a miserable asylum in the cottage in Germany, where I
"They were not entirely happy.  The young man and his companion often
"This account rather alarmed us, and we continued to search for him
"This day was passed in the same routine as that which preceded it.
"This reading had puzzled me extremely at first, but by degrees I
"This trait of kindness moved me sensibly.  I had been accustomed,
"This was then the reward of my benevolence!  I had saved a human being
"Thus I relieve thee, my creator," he said, and placed his hated hands
"To go instantly to Geneva: come with me, Henry, to order the horses."
"Very well, and very happy, only a little uneasy that they hear from
"Wandering spirits, if indeed ye wander, and do not rest in your narrow
"We do also, unfortunately," replied my father, "for indeed I had
"When I reflect, my dear cousin," said she, "on the miserable death of
"When alone, Safie resolved in her own mind the plan of conduct that it
"When my dearest aunt died every one was too much occupied in their own
"When my hunger was appeased, I directed my steps towards the well-
"When night came I quitted my retreat and wandered in the wood; and
"When she had finished, she gave the guitar to Agatha, who at first
"When the news reached Leghorn that Felix was deprived of his wealth
"While I improved in speech, I also learned the science of letters as
"Why do you call to my remembrance," I rejoined, "circumstances of
"William is dead!--that sweet child, whose smiles delighted and warmed
"Yes."
"You have been ill, very ill, and even the constant letters of dear
"You have guessed right; I have lately been so deeply engaged in one
"You have probably waited impatiently for a letter to fix the date of
"You will repay me entirely if you do not discompose yourself, but get
"`Are they Germans?'
"`Do not despair.  To be friendless is indeed to be unfortunate, but
"`Do not trouble yourself, my kind host; I have food; it is warmth and
"`Do you consider,' said his companion to him, `that you will be
"`Enter,' said De Lacey, `and I will try in what manner I can to
"`Excellent man!  I thank you and accept your generous offer.  You
"`Great God!' exclaimed the old man.  `Who are you?'
"`Heaven forbid!  Even if you were really criminal, for that can only
"`How can I thank you, my best and only benefactor?  From your lips
"`I am about to undertake that task; and it is on that account that I
"`It is utterly useless,' replied Felix; `we can never again inhabit
"`May I know the names and residence of those friends?'
"`Near this spot.'
"`No, they are French.  But let us change the subject.  I am an
"`No; but I was educated by a French family and understand that
"`That is indeed unfortunate; but if you are really blameless, cannot
"`They are kind--they are the most excellent creatures in the world;
"`Where do these friends reside?'
"dear lovely child, he now sleeps with his angel mother!  Who that had
"promised impossibilities and performed nothing.  The modern masters
"that pang is past.  God raises my weakness and gives me courage to
(foolish wretch!) that it might be in my power to restore happiness to
***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FRANKENSTEIN, OR THE MODERN
--the sublime shapes of the mountains, the changes of the seasons,
1609
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
A LOVER'S COMPLAINT
A mind of moderate capacity which closely pursues one study must
A murmur of approbation followed Elizabeth's simple and powerful
A sod covers his gentle form, and he knows no pain.  He can no longer
A tingling long-lost sense of pleasure often came across me during this
ACT III. SCENE I.
ACT IV. SCENE I.
ACT V. SCENE I.
About this time we retired to our house at Belrive.  This change was
About two o'clock the mist cleared away, and we beheld, stretched out
Adieu, my dear Margaret.  Be assured that for my own sake, as well as
Agatha entered.  Who can describe their horror and consternation on
Agrippa and Paracelsus, but without the contempt that M. Krempe had
Alas!  I did not yet entirely know the fatal effects of this miserable
Alas!  Victor, when falsehood can look so like the truth, who can
Albertus Magnus, and Paracelsus, the lords of my imagination; but by
Although I possessed the capacity of bestowing animation, yet to
Although her disposition was gay and in many respects inconsiderate,
And could not such words from her whom I fondly prized before every
And on the morrow Justine died.  Elizabeth's heart-rending eloquence
Arabian was left alone, unacquainted with the language of the country
Arabian, the strange system of human society was explained to me.  I
Archangel, 28th March, 17--
Archangel. I shall depart for the latter town in a fortnight or three
Ariosto gives concerning the beauty of Angelica--she looked so
As I applied so closely, it may be easily conceived that my progress
As I said this I suddenly beheld the figure of a man, at some distance,
As he said this he led the way across the ice; I followed.  My heart
As he said this his countenance became expressive of a calm, settled
As the circumstances of his marriage illustrate his character, I cannot
At length I arrived at the village of Chamounix.  Exhaustion succeeded
At that instant my father entered.  I saw unhappiness deeply impressed
At these moments I wept bitterly and wished that peace would revisit my
August 13th, 17--
August 19, 17--
August 5th, 17--
Author: Mary Wollstonecraft (Godwin) Shelley
Before this I was not unacquainted with the more obvious laws of
Besides, I found that my understanding improved so much with every
Bohemia. A road near the SHEPHERD'S cottage
Bohemia. The SHEPHERD'S cottage
Bohemia. The palace of POLIXENES
Bohemia. The sea-coast
But I forget that I am moralizing in the most interesting part of my
But I have one want which I have never yet been able to satisfy, and
But I was in reality very ill, and surely nothing but the unbounded and
But hear me.  The guilty are allowed, by human laws, bloody as they
But here were books, and here were men who had penetrated deeper and
But just at that time I inherited the fortune of my cousin, and my
But on you only had I any claim for pity and redress, and from you I
But success SHALL crown my endeavours.  Wherefore not?  Thus far I have
By very slow degrees, and with frequent relapses that alarmed and
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
Cenis to Leghorn, where the merchant had decided to wait a favourable
Chapter 1
Chapter 10
Chapter 11
Chapter 12
Chapter 13
Chapter 14
Chapter 15
Chapter 16
Chapter 2
Chapter 3
Chapter 4
Chapter 5
Chapter 6
Chapter 7
Chapter 8
Chapter 9
Character set encoding: ISO-646-US (US-ASCII)
Chemistry is that branch of natural philosophy in which the greatest
Christian, but he feared the resentment of Felix if he should appear
Christy Phillips, Caphilli@hawk.syr.edu, submitted on 9/24/93.
Clerval at first attributed my unusual spirits to joy on his arrival,
Clerval called forth the better feelings of my heart; he again taught
Clerval had never sympathized in my tastes for natural science; and his
Clerval spoke thus as we hurried through the streets; the words
Clerval then put the following letter into my hands.  It was from
Clerval was the son of a merchant of Geneva.  He was a boy of singular
Clerval, as he read the account of my misfortune.
Clerval, who had watched my countenance as I read this letter, was
Clerval, who observed my change of colour, "I will not mention it if it
Clerval, who, on seeing me, instantly sprung out.  "My dear
Clerval, whose eyes and feelings were always quick in discerning the
Clerval--could aught ill entrench on the noble spirit of Clerval?  Yet
Clerval:  I was myself when young; but that wears out in a very short
Como.  Their benevolent disposition often made them enter the cottages
Concerning the picture she could give no account.
Constantinople to join him.  He was tried and condemned to death.  The
Constantinople, for which city he should sail in a few hours.  He
Continuing thus, I came at length opposite to the inn at which the
Copet.  Another storm enlightened Jura with faint flashes; and another
Curiosity, earnest research to learn the hidden laws of nature,
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
Day dawned; and I directed my steps towards the town.  The gates were
Dear William! dearest blessed child!  I soon shall see you again in
Destiny was too potent, and her immutable laws had decreed my utter and
During our walk, Clerval endeavoured to say a few words of consolation;
During this conversation I had retired to a corner of the prison room,
Elizabeth also suffered extreme anguish.  About five in the morning I
Elizabeth shone like a shrine-dedicated lamp in our peaceful home.  Her
Elizabeth was sad and desponding; she no longer took delight in her
Elizabeth, and Clerval; these were "old familiar faces," but I believed
Elizabeth, he spared them this grief by concealing the extent of my
Empires.  I should not have understood the purport of this book had not
End of this Etext of The Complete Works of William Shakespeare
Enter ANTIGONUS with the CHILD, and a MARINER
Enter AUTOLYCUS and a GENTLEMAN
Enter AUTOLYCUS, singing
Enter CLEOMENES and DION
Enter FLORIZEL and PERDITA
Enter LEONTES, ANTIGONUS, LORDS, and SERVANTS
Enter LEONTES, CLEOMENES, DION, PAULINA, and OTHERS
Enter LEONTES, LORDS, and OFFICERS
Enter LEONTES, POLIXENES, FLORIZEL, PERDITA, CAMILLO, PAULINA,
Enter POLIXENES and CAMILLO
Enter TIME, the CHORUS
Even broken in spirit as he is, no one can feel more deeply than he
Everyone loved Elizabeth.  The passionate and almost reverential
Everything is related in them which bears reference to my accursed
Excellent friend!  how sincerely you did love me, and endeavour to
Farewell, my dear, excellent Margaret. Heaven shower down blessings on
Felix came up hastily to the lady, who, when she saw him, threw up her
Felix were not for me. Miserable, unhappy wretch!
Felix, in reading it, given very minute explanations.  He had chosen
For a short space of time I remained at the window watching the pallid
Frankenstein, continued (Chapters 20-24)
Frankenstein, my aunt, in her last illness, with the greatest affection
Frankenstein, or the Modern Prometheus
Frankenstein, your son, your kinsman, your early, much-loved friend; he
Frankenstein," exclaimed he, "how glad I am to see you!  How fortunate
Frankenstein--more, far more, will I achieve; treading in the steps
French government; he had consequently hired a vessel to convey him to
From Italy they visited Germany and France.  I, their eldest child, was
From the tortures of my own heart, I turned to contemplate the deep and
From this day natural philosophy, and particularly chemistry, in the
Geneva.  On her return, at about nine o'clock, she met a man who asked
Germany.
Good God!  Margaret, if you had seen the man who thus capitulated for
Greek, I eat heartily without Greek.'  But his affection for me at
He bitterly deplored the false pride which led his friend to a conduct
He easily eluded me and said,
He then related that, the morning on which the murder of poor William
He then told me that he would commence his narrative the next day when
He was not, as the other traveller seemed to be, a savage inhabitant of
He was seized and cast into prison the very day that Safie arrived from
Henry rejoiced in my gaiety, and sincerely sympathised in my feelings:
Her mild eyes seemed incapable of any severity or guile, and yet she
Here I paused, not exactly knowing what path to pursue, when I heard
His countenance instantly assumed an aspect of the deepest gloom, and
His daughter attended him with the greatest tenderness, but she saw
How can I describe my emotions at this catastrophe, or how delineate
How slowly the time passes here, encompassed as I am by frost and
I am already far north of London, and as I walk in the streets of
I am by birth a Genevese, and my family is one of the most
I am preparing to depart.  I am going to unexplored regions, to "the
I attended the lectures and cultivated the acquaintance of the men of
I beheld those I loved spend vain sorrow upon the graves of William and
I cannot describe to you my sensations on the near prospect of my
I cannot pretend to describe what I then felt.  I had before
I closed not my eyes that night.  My internal being was in a state of
I complained of his wickedness.  These motives urged me to comply with
I contemplated the lake:  the waters were placid; all around was calm;
I continued obdurate.  Dear lady, I had none to support me; all looked
I continued walking in this manner for some time, endeavouring by
I could not answer.  "No, Justine," said Elizabeth; "he is more
I did not contemplate making any other use of them than temporary
I fear, my friend, that I shall render myself tedious by dwelling on
I feared the detail to another would only impress more deeply.
I feel exquisite pleasure in dwelling on the recollections of
I found this, I resolved to quit the place that I had hitherto
I had begun life with benevolent intentions and thirsted for the moment
I had felt, as a child, on learning that my father's dying injunction
I had sufficient leisure for these and many other reflections during my
I have resolved every night, when I am not imperatively occupied by my
I imagined that I also might obtain a niche in the temple where the
I kept my workshop of filthy creation; my eyeballs were starting from
I knew well therefore what would be my father's feelings, but I could
I learned, from the views of social life which it developed, to admire
I listened to this discourse with the extremest agony.  I, not in deed,
I motioned him to take up the letter, while I walked up and down the
I need not describe the feelings of those whose dearest ties are rent
I ought to be thy Adam, but I am rather the fallen angel, whom thou
I passed a night of unmingled wretchedness.  In the morning I went to
I passed the bridge of Pelissier, where the ravine, which the river
I passed the night wretchedly.  Sometimes my pulse beat so quickly and
I performed the first part of my journey on horseback.  I afterwards
I quitted my seat, and walked on, although the darkness and storm
I received a lesson of patience, of charity, and of self-control, I was
I refrained.  I saw him on the point of repeating his blow, when,
I relate our misfortune?  Absence cannot have rendered you callous to
I relied on your innocence, and although I was then very wretched, I
I remained motionless.  The thunder ceased; but the rain still
I replied in the affirmative.  "Every minute," continued M. Krempe with
I resolved to remain silent.
I returned home not disappointed, for I have said that I had long
I rushed out of the court in agony.  The tortures of the accused did
I saw the lightning playing on the summit of Mont Blanc in the most
I say, I was tempted to plunge into the silent lake, that the waters
I see by your eagerness and the wonder and hope which your eyes
I shall be well content if nothing worse happen to us during our
I shall continue my journal concerning the stranger at intervals,
I shall not be driven from the society and sympathy of your fellow
I should be at leisure.  This promise drew from me the warmest thanks.
I spent the following day roaming through the valley.  I stood beside
I then thought that my father would be unjust if he ascribed my neglect
I thought, that the same cause should produce such opposite effects!  I
I threw myself into the chaise that was to convey me away and indulged
I travelled only at night, fearful of encountering the visage of a
I trembled excessively; I could not endure to think of, and far less to
I trembled.  One subject!  What could it be?  Could he allude to an
I uncovered it, and a gentle breeze quickly fanned it into a flame.  I
I voluntarily endured cold, famine, thirst, and want of sleep; I often
I was still cold when under one of the trees I found a huge cloak, with
I was thirteen years of age we all went on a party of pleasure to the
I was thus engaged, Ernest entered:  he had heard me arrive, and
I will relate her history, therefore in a few words.  Madame Moritz,
I write a few lines in haste to say that I am safe--and well advanced
I wrote, and this exertion greatly fatigued me; but my convalescence
If I succeed, many, many months, perhaps years, will pass before you
If, instead of this remark, my father had taken the pains to explain to
In an evil hour I subscribed to a lie; and now only am I truly
In the morning, however, as soon as it was light, I went upon deck and
Ingolstadt.  "You may easily believe," said he, "how great was the
Inspirited by this wind of promise, my daydreams become more fervent
It had then filled me with a sublime ecstasy that gave wings to the
It was a strong effort of the spirit of good, but it was ineffectual.
It was about five in the morning when I entered my father's house.  I
It was as the ass and the lap-dog; yet surely the gentle ass whose
It was dawn, and she quitted her asylum, that she might again endeavour
It was nearly noon when I arrived at the top of the ascent.  For some
It was not splintered by the shock, but entirely reduced to thin
It was on a dreary night of November that I beheld the accomplishment
July 7th, 17--
Justine Moritz, I no longer see the world and its works as they before
Justine also was a girl of merit and possessed qualities which promised
Justine assumed an air of cheerfulness, while she with difficulty
Justine shook her head mournfully.  "I do not fear to die," she said;
Justine sitting on some straw at the farther end; her hands were
Justine was apprehended.  On being charged with the fact, the poor girl
Justine was called on for her defence.  As the trial had proceeded, her
Justine was the most grateful little creature in the world:  I do not
Justine, and indeed every human being, was guiltless of this murder.  I
Justine, and it was with great difficulty that Elizabeth could tear
Justine, that miserable epoch from which I dated all my woe.  The
Justine, the first hapless victims to my unhallowed arts.
LORDS and ATTENDANTS
Language: English
Last Monday (July 31st) we were nearly surrounded by ice, which closed
Letter 1
Letter 2
Letter 3
Letter 4
M. Krempe had now commenced an eulogy on himself, which happily turned
M. Krempe was not equally docile; and in my condition at that time, of
Many times I considered Satan as the fitter emblem of my condition, for
Margaret, do I not deserve to accomplish some great purpose?  My life
Margaret, that I should find no friend on the wide ocean; yet I have
Margination and last proofing by anonymous volunteers
Mary Wollstonecraft (Godwin) Shelley
Meanwhile Clerval occupied himself, so to speak, with the moral
Meltzer@cat.syr.edu, proofread, partially typed and submitted by
Milan, he found playing with me in the hall of our villa a child fairer
Montanvert.  I remembered the effect that the view of the tremendous
Morning, dismal and wet, at length dawned and discovered to my
My affection for my guest increases every day.  He excites at once my
My dear Sister,
My departure for Ingolstadt, which had been deferred by these events,
My father observed with pain the alteration perceptible in my
My journey was very melancholy.  At first I wished to hurry on, for I
My rage was without bounds; I sprang on him, impelled by all the
My swelling heart involuntarily pours itself out thus.  But I must
My temper was sometimes violent, and my passions vehement; but by some
No human being could have passed a happier childhood than myself.  My
No incidents have hitherto befallen us that would make a figure in a
No one can conceive the anguish I suffered during the remainder of the
No one can conceive the variety of feelings which bore me onwards, like
No!  No!  I never could survive so horrible a misfortune."
Nothing could equal my delight on seeing Clerval; his presence brought
Nothing could exceed in beauty the contrast between these two excellent
Nothing in human shape could have destroyed the fair child.  HE was the
Nothing is more painful to the human mind than, after the feelings have
Oh!  No mortal could support the horror of that countenance.  A mummy
Oh, save me!  Save me!"  I imagined that the monster seized me; I
Omnipotence--and I ceased to fear or to bend before any being less
On my return, I found the following letter from my father:--
On perceiving me, the stranger addressed me in English, although with a
On the birth of a second son, my junior by seven years, my parents gave
One of my first duties on my recovery was to introduce Clerval to the
One of the phenomena which had peculiarly attracted my attention was
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PROMETHEUS***
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
Paradise Lost, a volume of Plutarch's Lives, and the Sorrows of Werter.
Partly from curiosity and partly from idleness, I went into the
Petersburgh, I feel a cold northern breeze play upon my cheeks, which
Poor Clerval!  What must have been his feelings?  A meeting, which he
Proofread by Christy Phillips (caphilli@hawk.syr.edu)
Proofread by Lynn Hanninen, submitted 10/93.]
R. Walton
R.W.
Release Date: October 31, 1993  [eBook #84]
Remember, I am not recording the vision of a madman.  The sun does not
Reproofed by Lynn Hanninen (leh1@lehigh.edu)
Robert Walton
Romans--of their subsequent degenerating--of the decline of that mighty
Roncesvalles, of the Round Table of King Arthur, and the chivalrous
Ruined castles hanging on the precipices of piny mountains, the
SCENE II.
SCENE II.
SCENE II.
SCENE III.
SCENE III.
SCENE III.
SCENE III.
SCENE IV.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
Safie was always gay and happy; she and I improved rapidly in the
Saleve, a hill that bounds Plainpalais on the south.  He soon reached
Savoy; vivid flashes of lightning dazzled my eyes, illuminating the
Scanned by Judy Boss (boss@cwis.unomaha.edu)
Several months passed in this manner.  Her father grew worse; her time
Several new kinds of plants sprang up in the garden, which they
Several witnesses were called who had known her for many years, and
Shall I meet you again, after having traversed immense seas, and
She busied herself with following the aerial creations of the poets;
She died calmly, and her countenance expressed affection even in death.
She forgot even her own regret in her endeavours to make us forget.
She indeed veiled her grief and strove to act the comforter to us all.
She looked steadily on life and assumed its duties with courage and
She paused, weeping, and then continued, "I thought with horror, my
She then related that, by the permission of Elizabeth, she had passed
She welcomed me with the greatest affection.  "Your arrival, my dear
Sicilia. A chapel in PAULINA's house
Sicilia. A court of justice
Sicilia. Before the palace of LEONTES
Sicilia. On the road to the Capital
Sicilia. The palace of LEONTES
Sicilia. The palace of LEONTES
Six years had elapsed, passed in a dream but for one indelible trace,
Six years have passed since I resolved on my present undertaking.  I
So saying, he stepped aside and wrote down a list of several books
So strange an accident has happened to us that I cannot forbear
Solon, and Lycurgus, in preference to Romulus and Theseus.  The
Sometimes I could cope with the sullen despair that overwhelmed me, but
Sometimes I wished to express my sensations in my own mode, but the
Soon after this he inquired if I thought that the breaking up of the
Soon after we heard that the poor victim had expressed a desire to see
St. Petersburgh, Dec. 11th, 17--
Strange and harrowing must be his story, frightful the storm which
Such is my journal of what relates to this strange occurrence up to the
Such were my reflections during the first two or three days of my
Such were the professor's words--rather let me say such the words of
Such words, you may imagine, strongly excited my curiosity; but the
Summer passed away in these occupations, and my return to Geneva was
Switzerland, appeared at once in various parts of the heavens.  The
THE END
THE END
TO Mrs. Saville, England
Tears, unrestrained, fell from my brother's eyes; a sense of mortal
The Project Gutenberg eBook, Frankenstein, or the Modern Prometheus, by
The Vicar of Wakefield:  `I have ten thousand florins a year without
The appearance of Justine was calm.  She was dressed in mourning, and
The ascent is precipitous, but the path is cut into continual and short
The astonishment which I had at first experienced on this discovery
The day of my departure at length arrived.  Clerval spent the last
The different accidents of life are not so changeable as the feelings
The form of the monster on whom I had bestowed existence was forever
The lady was dressed in a dark suit and covered with a thick black
The month of May had already commenced, and I expected the letter daily
The next morning I delivered my letters of introduction and paid a
The possession of these treasures gave me extreme delight; I now
The rain was pouring in torrents, and thick mists hid the summits of
The road ran by the side of the lake, which became narrower as I
The sight of the awful and majestic in nature had indeed always the
The summer months passed while I was thus engaged, heart and soul, in
The trial began, and after the advocate against her had stated the
The untaught peasant beheld the elements around him and was acquainted
The whole village was roused; some fled, some attacked me, until,
The young man was constantly employed out of doors, and the girl in
There only remained a resolution to return to my ancient studies and to
There was a considerable difference between the ages of my parents, but
These reflections have dispelled the agitation with which I began my
These thoughts supported my spirits, while I pursued my undertaking
These visions faded when I perused, for the first time, those poets
They had not been long married, and their eldest child was but just
They were fond of the sweet orphan.  Her presence had seemed a blessing
This advice, although good, was totally inapplicable to my case; I
This aroused the stranger's attention, and he asked a multitude of
This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
This is the most favourable period for travelling in Russia.  They fly
This speech calmed me.  I was firmly convinced in my own mind that
This state of mind preyed upon my health, which had perhaps never
This was a dire blow to poor Elizabeth, who had relied with firmness
This was a strange tale, but it did not shake my faith; and I replied
This was strange and unexpected intelligence; what could it mean?  Had
This was the commencement of a nervous fever which confined me for
This was the forest near Ingolstadt; and here I lay by the side of a
This whole winter, instead of being spent in study, as you promised
Through this crevice a small room was visible, whitewashed and clean
Thus ended a day memorable to me; it decided my future destiny.
Thus not the tenderness of friendship, nor the beauty of earth, nor of
Thus spoke my prophetic soul, as, torn by remorse, horror, and despair,
Thus strangely are our souls constructed, and by such slight ligaments
Thus the poor sufferer tried to comfort others and herself.  She indeed
Title: Frankenstein, or the Modern Prometheus
To Mrs. Saville, England
To Mrs. Saville, England
To Mrs. Saville, England
Turkish merchant and had inhabited Paris for many years, when, for some
Two days passed in this manner before he was able to speak, and I often
Upon hearing this he appeared satisfied and consented to come on board.
Victor--tomorrow he shall have it."  And when, on the morrow, she
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
Waldman, whom I had never seen, as he had hitherto been out of town.
Walton, that I have suffered great and unparalleled misfortunes.  I had
We ascended into my room, and the servant presently brought breakfast;
We felt that they were not the tyrants to rule our lot according to
We passed a few sad hours until eleven o'clock, when the trial was to
We passed a fortnight in these perambulations:  my health and spirits
We sat late.  We could not tear ourselves away from each other nor
We were brought up together; there was not quite a year difference in
We were soon joined by Elizabeth.  Time had altered her since I last
When I found so astonishing a power placed within my hands, I hesitated
When I had attained the age of seventeen my parents resolved that I
When I was about five years old, while making an excursion beyond the
When happy, inanimate nature had the power of bestowing on me the most
When my guest was a little recovered I had great trouble to keep off the
Where had they fled when the next morning I awoke?  All of soul-
While I listened to the instructions which Felix bestowed upon the
While I watched the tempest, so beautiful yet terrific, I wandered on
While my companion contemplated with a serious and satisfied spirit the
Who dared talk of that?  The poor victim, who on the morrow was to pass
Why did you confess?  But do not mourn, dear girl.  Do not fear.  I
Why did you form a monster so hideous that even YOU turned from me in
Will you smile at the enthusiasm I express concerning this divine
William.  I wish you could see him; he is very tall of his age, with
William."
Yesterday the stranger said to me, "You may easily perceive, Captain
Yet do not suppose, because I complain a little or because I can
Yet his manners are so conciliating and gentle that the sailors are all
Yet, as I drew nearer home, grief and fear again overcame me.  Night
You had mentioned Geneva as the name of your native town, and towards
You have made me wretched beyond expression.  You have left me no power
You may conceive my astonishment on hearing such a question addressed
You may easily imagine that I was much gratified by the offered
You will rejoice to hear that no disaster has accompanied the
You, my playfellow, my companion, my sister, perish on the scaffold!
Your affectionate brother,
Your affectionate brother,
Your dear mother!  Alas, Victor!  I now say, Thank God she did not live
[Chapters 1-6:  mostly scanned by David Meltzer,
[Most recently updated: May 30, 2005]
`The path of my departure was free,' and there was none to lament my
`dearest,' `unhappy.'
a child whom she had nursed from its birth, and appeared to love as if
a divine spring, and the season contributed greatly to my
a fellow creature about to perish through the cowardice of her
a godlike science, and I ardently desired to become acquainted with
a greater value on tried worth.  There was a show of gratitude and
a hurricane, in the first enthusiasm of success.  Life and death
a large and luxurious city called Paris, surrounded by friends and
a long time concerning the manner in which I should employ it.
a lovely pink.
a military career in a distant country, but Ernest never had your
a not less terrible, disaster.  I tried to calm Ernest; I enquired more
a plain and simple explanation of the facts which have been adduced
a recital of his misfortunes.  I felt the greatest eagerness to hear
a satisfied conscience, destroy your own creature.  Oh, praise the
a scanty meal to five hungry babes.  Among these there was one which
a scientific pursuit there is continual food for discovery and wonder.
a sleepless night and the fate of poor William was yet uncertain.
a steady purpose--a point on which the soul may fix its intellectual
a thousand sights of beauty.
a thousand ways he smoothed for me the path of knowledge and made the
a transport of fury, he dashed me to the ground and struck me violently
a treasure which would fully reward his toil and hazard.
a true history.  It moved every feeling of wonder and awe that the
a vessel and am occupied in collecting my sailors; those whom I have
a young creature, with a pail on her head, passing before my hovel. The
abandoned his pursuit.  He had already bought a farm with his money, on
abject than that of the blind mole or harmless worm.  For a long time I
able to leave my chamber.
abode.  But as the ensuing week commenced, I thought of the information
about eight feet in height, and proportionably large.  After having
absence of summer.  They loved and sympathized with one another; and
accents, and maternal Nature bade me weep no more.  Then again the
accents, whilst I comprehended and could imitate almost every word that
accept this offer, yet he looked forward to the probability of the
accident again changed the current of my ideas.  When I was about
accidents which experienced navigators scarcely remember to record, and
accidents, winter and snow arrived, the roads were deemed impassable,
accompanied the whale-fishers on several expeditions to the North Sea;
account myself.  But, my dear Frankenstein," continued he, stopping
accumulated ice, which, through the silent working of immutable laws,
accusations.--Poor William! he was our darling and our pride!"
accustomed hour when the family arose.  That hour passed, the sun
accustomed studies.  It seemed to me as if nothing would or could ever
acquainted with any of its inhabitants.  The winter, however, was spent
acquainted with my failure and how heavily I bore the disappointment.
acquainted with other customs than those of my native country.  My
acquainted with the localities and the principal residents in my new
acquainted with the path, and the presence of another would destroy the
acquainted with the theory and practice of natural philosophy as
acquired new and almost unlimited powers; they can command the thunders
acquittal."
acted as a lullaby to my too keen sensations; when I placed my head
acting before my eyes; the females were flying and the enraged Felix
action that he could towards them.
active in health, stretched on the grass livid and motionless; the
activity of the Grecians, of the wars and wonderful virtue of the early
acuteness so soon as, the unnatural stimulus ceasing to operate, I had
added to his well-known integrity and dauntless courage, made me very
additional motive for you, my son, to return and be our comforter?
addressed myself added that Justine had already confessed her guilt.
adequate to so arduous an undertaking, but I doubted not that I should
admiration and my pity to an astonishing degree.  How can I see so
admiration on this lovely girl, eagerly communicated her history.  She
admittance to the prison, he found a strongly grated window in an
adored companion of all my occupations and my pleasures.
advanced.
advanced; the heavens were clouded, and I soon felt the rain coming
advancing towards me with superhuman speed.  He bounded over the
adventurous exploit, had she not unfolded to him the real loveliness of
affairs of his country; a variety of circumstances had prevented his
affection enough for me to endeavour to regulate my mind.  Well, these
affection from a very mine of love to bestow them upon me.  My mother's
affection that I felt sensations of a peculiar and overpowering
affection warmed and opened my senses; I became the same happy creature
affection.  There was a sense of justice in my father's upright mind
affection.  They conversed with one another through the means of an
affections, Greece had not been enslaved, Caesar would have spared his
afflicted.  During one of their walks a poor cot in the foldings of a
afforded by these wonderful regions seem still to have the power of
after my arrival in the hovel I discovered some papers in the pocket of
after the death of M. Moritz, treated her very ill.  My aunt observed
after the first meal.
after the sun had risen; the day, which was one of the first of spring,
after their sufferings in the lake of fire.  I greedily devoured the
after we had exchanged our mournful greeting, would have introduced
after which she again lived in my uncle's house, where she was beloved
after your departure for Ingolstadt, Justine was called home by her
afterwards learned that, knowing my father's advanced age and unfitness
afterwards of Paracelsus and Albertus Magnus.  I read and studied the
afterwards their love.
afterwards waited for a long time, but that he did not return.
again bedewed my cheeks, and I even raised my humid eyes with
again endued with animation could not be so hideous as that wretch.  I
again to bless me, Clerval to press my hand once more, my Elizabeth to
against her, which might have staggered anyone who had not such proof
against me, and I hope the character I have always borne will incline
against the species, and more than all, against him who had formed me
age, to find a disciple of Albertus Magnus and Paracelsus.  My dear
aggravation of infamy that could make the murder memorable in horror.
agitates you; but your father and cousin would be very happy if they
agitation and anguish was extreme during the whole trial.  I believed
agony crept over my frame.  Before, I had only imagined the
agony of my wound overcame me; my pulses paused, and I fainted.
agony of this suspense.
agreeable asylum from the snow and rain.
air he fainted.  We accordingly brought him back to the deck and
akin to death, of the house of mourning and to rush into the thick of
alarmed by this account and passed several hours in looking for him,
alchemists as the principal authors I had studied.  The professor
alchemists.  Besides, I had a contempt for the uses of modern natural
all joyous and delighted.  You come to us now to share a misery which
all my other sins.  The God of heaven forgive me!  Ever since I was
all possible, can only be effected by an undertaking such as mine.
all sides various scents saluted me; the only object that I could
all the firmness of which I was master, removed the planks which I had
all your love and kindness.
all, I desired to see my sweet Elizabeth in some degree consoled.
all?  But these are not thoughts befitting me; I will endeavour to
alleged against him had been the cause of his condemnation.
allowed only to occupy herself with infantile amusements, ill-suited to
allude to, the occurrences of the preceding night.  I walked with a
almighty than that which had created and ruled the elements, here
almost forced conviction upon us; and her own behaviour has been so
almost insupportable sensitiveness, his harsh blunt encomiums gave me
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
alone am irrevocably excluded.  I was benevolent and good; misery made
alone sustained me:  my labours would soon end, and I believed that
alone.  I had sagacity enough to discover that the unnatural
alone.  If your wish is to become really a man of science and not
along like a mighty avalanche and produced a kind of insanity in my
already accomplished.  I was like the Arabian who had been buried with
already adopted, for there is a great difference between walking the
already engaged appear to be men on whom I can depend and are certainly
already marked, I will pioneer a new way, explore unknown powers, and
already one in the morning; the rain pattered dismally against the
also by the oppressive sense of the injustice and ingratitude of their
also closed around; and when I could hardly see the dark mountains, I
although the wind entered it by innumerable chinks, I found it an
although variable voice.
always having been imbued with a fervent longing to penetrate the
always unsuccessful, I attributed the failure rather to my own
am self-educated:  for the first fourteen years of my life I ran wild
am to suffer ignominy and death."
amazed and delighted, endeavoured to kindle the zeal of his deliverer
ambition to lose my life on the post-road between St. Petersburgh and
ambition.
amiable companions, continually engaged in endeavouring to bestow
among mankind, and endowed with the will and power to effect purposes
among the trees formed a scene of singular beauty.  But it was
among them?
ample, her blue eyes cloudless, and her lips and the moulding of her
amusement.  I read merely to understand their meaning, and they well
an air of melancholy, he took the pail from her head and bore it to the
an innocent, half-painful self-deceit, to call them)."
an obscure part of Paris.
anatomize, and give names; but, not to speak of a final cause, causes
and Felix departed on a long country walk, and the old man, at his own
and I assure you I love her tenderly.  She is very clever and gentle,
and I knew not whether it had remained there or passed through; at any
and I may meet.  If I fail, you will see me again soon, or never.
and I recovered only to overwhelm him with words expressive of furious
and I stood in the same place where I had last embraced my father
and a winning mildness to her manners, which had before been remarkable
and abortive creation, and entertained the greatest disdain for a
and above it rose Mont Blanc, in awful majesty.  I remained in a recess
and adventurous benefactors of our species.  The saintly soul of
and after having destroyed every vestige of cultivation in the garden, I
and appeared to have a language of her own, she was neither understood
and arrange in connected classifications the facts which they in a
and bitterness.  The nearer I approached to your habitation, the more
and boundless seas.  But I was perfectly unacquainted with towns and
and bushes, which I had collected.  The wind fanned the fire, and the
and care and afterwards attended her own mother during a tedious
and clock, which indicated the sixth hour.  The porter opened the gates
and delicate complexions; but how was I terrified when I viewed myself
and despised, every country must be equally horrible.  At length the
and diffused cheerfulness, although it denied warmth, Safie, Agatha,
and divine a retreat as Pandemonium appeared to the demons of hell
and encourage him, but I am solitary and abhorred.'
and entering the room where it lay, hastily examined the neck of the
and entirely lost.  You have burdened your memory with exploded systems
and ever-moving glacier had produced upon my mind when I first saw it.
and extremely pretty; as I mentioned before, her mien and her
and fall, and nature again assume the barren and bleak appearance it
and fear.  Justine died, she rested, and I was alive.  The blood flowed
and friendship?  I resolved, at least, not to despair, but in every way
and he showed her a large loaf and a piece of cheese.  She seemed
and heard the harsh, unfeeling reasoning of these men, my purposed
and her convenience.  He strove to shelter her, as a fair exotic is
and his wife, hard working, bent down by care and labour, distributing
and hopes rose.  I ardently desired the acquisition of knowledge.  I
and if these friends are good and amiable, do not despair.'
and in the bitterness of my heart I cursed him.
and in the majestic and wondrous scenes which surrounded our Swiss home
and indulging in all the misery of reflection.  Then I spurred on my
and it was judged that his religion and wealth rather than the crime
and it would, indeed, have been folly to repent.
and its tremendous dome overlooked the valley.
and loathsome person is given, in language which painted your own
and made known to the prisoner his intentions in his favour.  The Turk,
and me; we are enemies.  Begone, or let us try our strength in a fight,
and my journey was retarded until the ensuing spring.  I felt this
and nights in vaults and charnel-houses.  My attention was fixed upon
and oblivion in the same country where he had formerly been
and perhaps respected.  But even if I were condemned to suffer on the
and permit him to enter on the profession which he has selected.
and pleasant appearance, but after my late dearly bought experience, I
and ragged bare ravine, the eagle, soaring amidst the clouds--they all
and rank, the merchant commanded his daughter to think no more of her
and sent me forth to this insupportable misery.
and separated from all the other apartments by a gallery and staircase,
and that made me wretched, for I knew that it was impossible:  and to
and the earth again began to look green, confirmed in an especial
and the future gilded by bright rays of hope and anticipations of joy."
and the idea instantly occurred to me that I should make use of the
and the snowy mountains, `the palaces of nature,' were not changed.  By
and then I shall be happy again, even after the sad death of my little
and then cast me abroad an object for the scorn and horror of mankind.
and then, if you can, and if you will, destroy the work of your hands."
and thirst, and darkness; innumerable sounds rang in my ears, and on
and to produce sounds sweeter than the voice of the thrush or the
and unintelligible answer.  She returned to the house about eight
and useless names.  Good God!  In what desert land have you lived,
and utterly ignorant of the customs of the world.  She fell, however,
and vivid.  I try in vain to be persuaded that the pole is the seat of
and want, Felix carried with pleasure to his sister the first little
and when Elizabeth, in a faltering voice, proved that it was the same
and whose future lot it was in their hands to direct to happiness or
and whose very existence appeared a part of our own can have departed
and would not burn.  I was pained at this and sat still watching the
and, I believe, descended, but I presently found a great alteration in
and, sailing over a calm sea, we may be wafted to a land surpassing in
anguish in fearful howlings.  I was like a wild beast that had broken
anguish, is dear to me, and I will defend it.  Remember, thou hast made
animal, striving so to forget the world, my fears, and more than all,
animated smiles of the charming Arabian were not for me.  The mild
animation upon lifeless matter.
animation, when I was suddenly interrupted by the approach of a rustic,
annihilation.  My person was hideous and my stature gigantic.  What did
announce publicly; its astounding horror would be looked upon as
announced by an unusual tranquillity and gladness of soul which
anticipated with such joy, so strangely turned to bitterness.  But I
any land; but this apparition seemed to denote that it was not, in
any of the family, went to a magistrate; and, upon their deposition,
any other being in existence; but his state was far different from mine
any other being that wore the human form.
any other country.  When you read their writings, life appears to
anything I loved remained behind.  My abhorrence of this fiend cannot
apartment might still be there, alive and walking about.  I dreaded to
apparatus from my view.  He had also changed my apartment; for he
apparel of summer; when those deserted me, I turned with more attention
apparent connection with visible objects, I was unable to discover any
appeal, but it was excited by her generous interference, and not in
appeals were lost upon them.  And when I received their cold answers
appear to me as monsters thirsting for each other's blood.  Yet I am
appearance was disconsolate, and I found my feet chilled by the cold
appeared dead, revive within me.  Half surprised by the novelty of
appeared to me ideal bounds, which I should first break through, and
appeared to me.  Before, I looked upon the accounts of vice and
application and was more deeply smitten with the thirst for knowledge.
application equals your ability, I have no doubt of your success.
application was at first fluctuating and uncertain; it gained strength
application, however, and after having remained during the space of
appreciate the extraordinary merits of this wonderful man.  Sometimes I
apprehensions as tyros engaged in the same pursuit.
approached my native town.  I discovered more distinctly the black
approached with another man; I was surprised, as I knew that he had not
are ancient?  I little expected, in this enlightened and scientific
are equally neglected."
are kinder to me than your fellow beings.  If the multitude of mankind
are not your last tears!  Again shall you raise the funeral wail, and
are unremitted; but they will not restore my beloved William!
are useless complaints; I shall certainly find no friend on the wide
are we bound to prosperity or ruin.  When I look back, it seems to me
are, to speak in their own defence before they are condemned.  Listen
argument of its impracticability.  It was with these feelings that I
arms; a shroud enveloped her form, and I saw the grave-worms crawling
around I saw and heard of none like me.  Was I, then, a monster, a blot
arranged the cottage and prepared the food, and the youth departed
arrival of the Arabian now infused new life into his soul.
as I am blind, I am afraid I shall find it difficult to procure food
as I proceeded and soon became so ardent and eager that the stars often
as a restorative for her weakened frame.
as he said, in some plan of future maintenance.
as if this almost miraculous change of inclination and will was the
as it did a number of circumstances, each interesting and wonderful to
as man.  The materials at present within my command hardly appeared
as mine--mine to protect, love, and cherish.  All praises bestowed on
as the sun is already far declined, I shall only have time to repeat
as to persuade my relatives to commence it.  And then of what use would
as witnesses, I accompanied them to the court.  During the whole of
asked me several questions concerning my progress in the different
asks but to see you, but to be assured that you are well; and not a
aspect of the earth.  Men who before this change seemed to have been
aspirations and ambition of his son.  Henry deeply felt the misfortune
assassinated, and the murderer escapes; he walks about the world free,
assure themselves of certain happiness?  I feel as if I were walking on
astonishing:  his conversation was full of imagination; and very often,
astonishment, he found his store always replenished by an invisible
at liberty, with no obstacles which I could not either surmount or
at sunset I arrived at a village.  How miraculous did this appear!  The
at the beginning of this last winter.  Justine has just returned to us;
at the same time she gently deplored her own fate.
at the wreck I perceived that I had become; the energy of my purpose
at work in my soul which I do not understand.  I am practically
atmosphere.  I have promised that someone should watch for him and give
attached to each other, they seemed to draw inexhaustible stores of
attached to its success inspired me with a dread lest I should fail.
attachment with which all regarded her became, while I shared it, my
attempts would at least lay the foundations of future success.  Nor
attended her sickbed; her watchful attentions triumphed over the
attended on him as much as my duty would permit.  I never saw a more
attended the motions of the cottagers, and when they were dispersed in
attracted my mother far above all the rest.  She appeared of a
attracted our attention and diverted our solicitude from our own
augmented and rendered sublime by the mighty Alps, whose white and
aunt had so highly honoured, and whom you loved, was a creature capable
author?  Cursed be the day, abhorred devil, in which you first saw
avalanche or the cracking, reverberated along the mountains, of the
avoid.  The light became more and more oppressive to me, and the heat
avowal died away on my lips.  Thus I might proclaim myself a madman,
away from the joys of life."
back to my thoughts my father, Elizabeth, and all those scenes of home
barricade the valley.  The abrupt sides of vast mountains were before
baths near Thonon; the inclemency of the weather obliged us to remain a
be a subject for pity; we must reserve that for his miserable
be alarmed for my safety or if I should come back to you as worn and
be conceived.  When I thought of him I gnashed my teeth, my eyes became
be convicted of crime?  I rely on her innocence as certainly as I do
be decided whether the result of my curiosity and lawless devices would
be forever grateful; and your present humanity assures me of success
be known.  All that had so long engaged my attention suddenly grew
be pursuit?  Who could arrest a creature capable of scaling the
be the consolation of your father.  Elizabeth, my love, you must supply
be to remark the improvement of our Ernest!  He is now sixteen and full
be--do not lend his aid to perfectionate our weak and faulty natures. I
beat rapidly.  I was unable to remain for a single instant in the same
beautiful figures.  The storm appeared to approach rapidly, and, on
beautiful that they at once drew tears of sorrow and delight from my
beautiful.  Beautiful!  Great God!  His yellow skin scarcely covered
beauty and strength, had become food for the worm.  Now I was led to
became a poet and for one year lived in a paradise of my own creation;
became a traitor to good feeling and honour and had quitted Italy with
became acquainted with the science of anatomy, but this was not
became the victim of its weakness.  Whether he had died or still
become acquainted with my admiration of their virtues they  would
become an actor in the busy scene where so many admirable qualities
become one among those whose names are recorded in story as the gallant
becoming one among my fellows.  The gentle words of Agatha and  the
bed for several days.  During this interval, one of the servants,
bed in my clothes, endeavouring to seek a few moments of
bed-chamber, unable to compose my mind to sleep.  At length lassitude
bed; and his eyes, if eyes they may be called, were fixed on me.  His
beds, allow me this faint happiness, or take me, as your companion,
been  prepared for my approach.  But I did not believe my errors to be
been considered as the ravings of a madman and would not have
been made by a young soldier, burning for glory and slaughter, I should
been made in the prospect of arriving at the North Pacific Ocean
been my food and pleasant rest for so long a space were now become a
been worked up by a quick succession of events, the dead calmness of
before experienced, either from hunger or cold, warmth or food; and I
before gave place to hellish rage and gnashing of teeth.  Inflamed by
before my departure for Ingolstadt.  Beloved and venerable parent!  He
before my eyes, and I raved incessantly concerning him.  Doubtless my
before my eyes, which I flung from me with violence; "thus I take from
before seen, and his flight somewhat surprised me.  But I was enchanted
before sorrowful, now swelled with something like joy; I exclaimed,
before that time; but of this I could not judge.  From this time a new
before the destined ceremony; but she was bathed in tears, and throwing
before understood, but I profited by the others.
began the creation of a human being.  As the minuteness of the parts
began to bud forth on the trees.  Happy, happy earth!  Fit habitation
beginning of my misfortunes, I had conceived a violent antipathy even
beheld her; it had endowed her with loveliness surpassing the beauty of
beheld in the village.  This hovel however, joined a cottage of a neat
beheld the corruption of death succeed to the blooming cheek of life; I
behind the cottage; and the girl was also busied, sometimes in the
behind the mountains of Jura, and the thunder burst at once with
behind.  Yet my heart overflowed with kindness and the love of virtue.
behold this monster, but I feared still more that Henry should see
behold, on the contrary, tears and wretchedness?  And how, Victor, can
beholding me?  Agatha fainted, and Safie, unable to attend to her
beholding thy streams, thy mountains, and, more than all, thy lovely
being built upon secure foundations, and so worthy of my consideration.
being which had the shape of a man, but apparently of gigantic stature,
being whom I myself had formed, and endued with life, had met me at
being within it whom the sailors were persuading to enter the vessel.
being, but certainly I should have thought such a creature unfit to
beings of a superior nature, but I was wretched, helpless, and alone.
beings.  Now all was blasted; instead of that serenity of conscience
believe in human goodness?  Justine, whom I loved and esteemed as my
believe it to be an intuitive discernment, a quick but never-failing
believe me to be if I disclosed the object of my suspicions?  I
believe myself utterly unworthy of it.
believe, innocent, rely on the justice of our laws, and the activity
beneficence and made the doing good the end and aim of his soaring
beneficial; but a fatal prejudice clouds their eyes, and where they
benevolent dispositions, I persuaded myself that when they should
benevolent mind.  Her health, and even the tranquillity of her hitherto
benevolently restored me to life."
bent my mind towards injury and death.  When I thought of my friends,
berries which I found hanging on the trees or lying on the ground.  I
bestow a more plentiful harvest or the vines yield a more luxuriant
bestowed on him the greatest delight by her music.
bestowed the whole on his rival, together with the remains of his
bestowed upon Safie, geography had not been omitted; I had learned from
bestowed?  I know not; despair had not yet taken possession of me; my
betrayed the innocent to death and ignominy?  I could not sustain the
better treatment than blows and execration.
bind one human being to another in mutual bonds.
bitterness, "are you always to be unhappy?  My dear friend, what has
black, and flowing; his teeth of a pearly whiteness; but these
blame.  A human being in perfection ought always to preserve a calm and
bloom of health, walking in the streets of Ingolstadt.  Delighted and
bloomed in the hedges, while those of summer were already in bud.  I
board a whale vessel; finding that he was unemployed in this city, I
boarder at a convent at Leghorn; and then, quitting the lovely Arabian,
boat, with his holiday mates, on an expedition of discovery up his
bodily exercise to ease the load that weighed upon my mind.  I
bondage to which she was now reduced.  She instructed her daughter in
books which I had requested, and I took my leave.
born at Naples, and as an infant accompanied them in their rambles.  I
born.  The father of their charge was one of those Italians nursed in
both that and the surrounding mountains.  Presently a breeze dissipated
both, it may be imagined that while during every hour of my infant life
boundaries of the radiant roof of light which canopied me.  Sometimes I
boundary, which was skirted by a deep and rapid river, into which many
boundless grandeur for realities of little worth.
boyhood.  Six years had passed since then:  _I_ was a wreck, but nought
braces my nerves and fills me with delight.  Do you understand this
branch of natural philosophy, including mathematics."  He then took me
branches of natural philosophy which relate to physiology.  Unless I
branches of physical science from which a naval adventurer might derive
branches of science appertaining to natural philosophy.  I replied
brand; it sank, and with a loud scream I fired the straw, and heath,
brightest living gold, and despite the poverty of her clothing, seemed
brilliant and wondrous, yet so simple, that while I became dizzy with
brink of certainty, I failed; yet still I clung to the hope which the
broken accents:  "Unhappy man!  Do you share my madness?  Have you
broken and strewed on the ground, some entirely destroyed, others bent,
brooded over me.  "Do you think, Victor," said he, "that I do not
brook resting from my fatigue, until I felt tormented by hunger and
brother"--tears came into his eyes as he spoke--"but is it not a duty
brother, and I eagerly sought a confirmation or denial of this
brothers and sister.  Perpetual fretting at length threw Madame Moritz
brought forward strong enough to convict her.  My tale was not one to
brought the wood from the outhouse, where, to his perpetual
brought to the door, and I resolved to ascend to the summit of
buds were shooting forth from the trees that shaded my window.  It was
burst forth amidst the universal stillness.  All, save I, were at rest
business.  He passed his younger days perpetually occupied by the
but I hope, I sincerely hope, that all these employments are now at an
but I was deeply affected by it.  If such lovely creatures were
but I was quickly restored by the cold gale of the mountains.  I
but I was unable to contain myself.  It was not joy only that possessed
but as there was little to do in the frosty season, he read to the old
but he raised her and embraced her affectionately.
but in effect, was the true murderer.  Elizabeth read my anguish in my
but it enlightened my path, and I again went out in search of berries.
but much oftener accused her of having caused the deaths of her
but not revoke the sentence passed upon my wretched victim.  She
but now the scene was changed.  The ambition of the inquirer seemed to
but perpetual attention and time explained to me many appearances which
but they want (as the painters call it) KEEPING; and I greatly need a
but to an eager desire to learn, and not to learn all things
but to utter sounds that were monotonous, and neither resembling the
but very bare of furniture. In one corner, near a small fire, sat an
but when I contemplated the virtues of the cottagers, their amiable and
but when I drew near my native town, I slackened my progress.  I could
but when he observed me more attentively, he saw a wildness in my eyes
but who understood the common language of Turkey, and departed for
but with an aspect expressive of the greatest benevolence; a few grey
but with feelings of peace and gentleness, that will heal, instead of
but your own confession."
but, unfortunately, they are prejudiced against me.  I have good
by Beaufort's coffin weeping bitterly, when my father entered the
by Mary Wollstonecraft (Godwin) Shelley
by William Shakespeare
by all the family.  She was warmly attached to the child who is now
by nor herself understood the cottagers.  They made many signs which I
by promises of reward and wealth.  Felix rejected his offers with
by that most irreparable evil, the void that presents itself to the
by the appearance of the hut; here the snow and rain could not
by the frequent repetition of her name I conjectured that their lovely
by various means contrived to earn a pittance scarcely sufficient to
by which she was induced to give her an education superior to that
cabriolet, and bade farewell to my friend.
came to the university with the design of making himself complete
came.  Some hours passed thus, while they, by their countenances,
can be hushed, never more to be heard.  These are the reflections of
can, even now, remember the hour from which I dedicated myself to this
cannot contest the inestimable benefit which I shall confer on all
cannot go alone."  The idea of this visit was torture to me, yet I
cannot live in this world of misery."
capable of observing outward objects with any kind of pleasure, I
care will ever cloud his benevolent countenance.  How pleased you would
carelessly, and partly in contempt, mentioned the names of my
cares of life.  I determined to go without a guide, for I was well
carriage which was to convey me away, they were all there--my father
case, but I am glad of it, and, indeed, none of our judges like to
casualties that took place around them.  The more I saw of them, the
catching and fearing each sound as if it were to announce the approach
caught the scarlet fever; her illness was severe, and she was in the
cause the death of two of my fellow beings:  one a smiling babe full of
causes.  The world was to me a secret which I desired to divine.
caves of ice, which I only do not fear, are a dwelling to me, and the
celestial eyes, were ever there to bless and animate us.  She was the
certainly unjust.  Everybody believed that poor girl to be guilty; and
chamber.  He came like a protecting spirit to the poor girl, who
change has taken place in our little household.  Do you remember on
change, and I thought that I held the corpse of my dead mother in my
character, and if their testimony shall not overweigh my supposed
charge, several witnesses were called.  Several strange facts combined
cheered even me by the loveliness of its sunshine and the balminess of
cheerful accent, with an expression of goodness that bestowed pleasure
cheerful as before I was attacked by the fatal passion.
cheerful than that of his sister, especially when he addressed the old
cheerfully; and although the spring was uncommonly late, when it came
cherished hope, it is true, but it vanished when I beheld my person
chief proof rests, if she had earnestly desired it, I should have
child so completely as I should deserve theirs.  Pursuing these
child.  "Dear mountains! my own beautiful lake! how do you welcome your
childhood, before misfortune had tainted my mind and changed its bright
children are accustomed to do when they expect a spectre to stand in
chimerical, while those of the former were real and practical, under
circumstances of the transaction.
clasped my hands, and exclaimed aloud, "William, dear angel! this is
clay?  My limbs now tremble, and my eyes swim with the remembrance; but
clemency and affection, is most due.  Remember that I am thy creature;
clothes, but these were insufficient to secure me from the dews of
cloudless.  It surprised me that what before was desert and gloomy
clue by which I could unravel the mystery of their reference.  By great
coarse blue petticoat and a linen jacket being her only garb; her fair
coarse, but it was wholesome; and they procured a sufficiency of it.
cold dew covered my forehead, my teeth chattered, and every limb became
cold is not excessive, if you are wrapped in furs--a dress which I have
cold shivering came over me.  I threw the door forcibly open, as
collected my own food and brought home firing for my protectors, I
collected the instruments of life around me, that I might infuse a
collecting a great quantity of wood, that I might dry it and have a
collecting and arranging my materials, I began.
college.  Clerval continued talking for some time about our mutual
combined with disdain and malignity, while its unearthly ugliness
commence.  My father and the rest of the family being obliged to attend
commencement of an enterprise which you have regarded with such evil
committed herself to his care; and after the interment of his friend he
communication, yet I could not endure that he should renew his grief by
companion had each of them several names, but the old man had only one,
compassion?  Believe me, Frankenstein, I was benevolent; my soul glowed
compassionate me and overlook my personal deformity.  Could they turn
composed heroic songs and began to write many a tale of enchantment and
composed of wood.  I quickly collected some branches, but they were wet
comprised in the noble art of book-keeping; and, indeed, I believe I
conceive a consolation for my toils which I may never know, that I am
conclusions.  I had certainly acted imprudently.  It was apparent that
condemn a criminal upon circumstantial evidence, be it ever so
condemned them to a perpetual exile from their native country.
condemned, my confessor has besieged me; he threatened and menaced,
condition.  I found myself similar yet at the same time strangely
conduct the more astonishing, detracts from the interest and sympathy
conducted her to Geneva and placed her under the protection of a
conducted to my solitary apartment to spend the evening as I pleased.
confide to me the particulars of your tale, I perhaps may be of use in
confirmed the idea which she had conceived.  Accordingly, a few months
confirmed the suspicion in a great measure by her extreme confusion of
confiscated; his child became an orphan and a beggar.  She continued
conformation for the endurance of cold than heat.  But my chief
confused knowledge of kingdoms, wide extents of country, mighty rivers,
confused, as to add to the evidence of facts a weight that, I fear,
conjecture concerning the probabilities by which it might have been
conquer all fear of danger or death and to induce me to commence this
conscience of the woman was troubled; she began to think that the
considered as a mystery; yet with how many things are we upon the brink
considered those authors useless whom the professor reprobated; but I
consist in a warm sun and a garden of roses,--in the smiles and frowns
consisted entirely of the vegetables of their garden and the milk of
consolation.  Elizabeth also wept and was unhappy, but hers also was
constant and deep grief fills me with sympathy and compassion.  He must
constant spirit, had been shaken by what she had gone through.  During
consumption, but when I found that in doing this I inflicted pain on
contained no pretension, but it sank deep.  The disquisitions upon
contempt, yet when he saw the lovely Safie, who was allowed to visit
content with the results promised by the modern professors of natural
contented and happy; their feelings were serene and peaceful, while
continually recurred to the same subject persuaded him that my disorder
continually sought the attainment of one object of pursuit and was
continually studied and exercised my mind upon these histories, whilst
continually, and accuses herself unjustly as the cause of his death;
continued to read with the greatest avidity.  When I returned home my
continued, and the scene was enveloped in an impenetrable darkness.  I
control them, but allowing myself to be borne away by the stream, I
convalescence.  I felt also sentiments of joy and affection revive in
conversation took place between him and his father, and the young
conversation, although I applied my whole mind to the endeavour, for I
converse concerning myself personally.  He asked me the history of my
convey to us.
convinced of your innocence than I was, for even when he heard that you
convinced, notwithstanding all the evidence.  Indeed, who would credit
convulsed; when, by the dim and yellow light of the moon, as it forced
cooped up in one place and had longed to enter the world and take my
cottage had formerly occupied a part of it, but the panes had been
cottage himself.  She followed, and they disappeared.  Presently I saw
cottage in the sun for a few minutes, leaning on the arm of the youth.
cottage together.
cottage was quickly enveloped by the flames, which clung to it and
cottage, I could not help believing that I had been too hasty in my
cottage, seek the old man, and by my representations win him to my
cottage, their harsh manners and rude gait only enhanced to me the
cottage.
cottagers and farmhouse servants to be.  Yet she was meanly dressed, a
cottagers had a means of prolonging light by the use of tapers, and was
cottagers, but I was shut out from intercourse with them, except
could I consider the magnitude and complexity of my plan as any
could I do?  He meant to please, and he tormented me.  I felt as if he
could gain the good will and mediation of the old De Lacey, I might by
could not be.  Remorse extinguished every hope.  I had been the author
could not conceive how one man could go forth to murder his fellow, or
could not consent to go and hear that little conceited fellow deliver
could not refuse.  We entered the gloomy prison chamber and beheld
could scarcely procure food to support it.  They often, I believe,
could suddenly become so capable of so frightful, so appalling a
counsellors and syndics, and my father had filled several public
countenance betrayed the secret to Elizabeth.  She was very earnest to
countenance expressed a deeper despondence.  Uttering a few sounds with
countenance had altered.  Surprise, horror, and misery were strongly
countenance of the aged cottager won my reverence, while the gentle
countenance was illuminated with pleasure, but as he continued,
countenance, and kindly taking my hand, said, "My dearest friend, you
countenance.  At first I perceived that he tried to suppress his
countenance.--Ay, ay," continued he, observing my face expressive of
countenances, who would fill the air with blessings and spend his life
country have produced simpler and happier manners than those which
country! who but a native can tell the delight I took in again
country, America would have been discovered more gradually, and the
country, we may reap every tranquil blessing--what can disturb our
country.  We possessed a house in Geneva, and a campagne on Belrive,
country; but it was only when it had ceased to be in my power to derive
course, exposing yourself to the same dangers which have rendered me
court she threw her eyes round it and quickly discovered where we were
court.  He made, at that moment, a solemn vow to deliver him and then
cousin," said she, "fills me with hope.  You perhaps will find some
covered it carefully with dry wood and leaves and placed wet branches
creation of a being like myself, or one of simpler organization; but my
creation of the world was now within my grasp.  Not that, like a magic
creator, abhor me; what hope can I gather from your fellow creatures,
creator, who would believe, unless his senses convinced him, in the
creatures as if I had been guilty of a crime.  Sometimes I grew alarmed
creatures.  One was old, with silver hairs and a countenance beaming
creatures.'
crept in; but now I covered every crevice by which I might be perceived
crept into my hovel and remained in silent expectation of the
crevices in the ice, among which I had walked with caution; his
crew, I felt myself peculiarly fortunate in being able to secure his
crime?"
criminality of the saintly sufferer.  My passionate and indignant
cultivated as well as of a capacious mind, whose tastes are like my
cultivation.  The birds sang in more cheerful notes, and the leaves
cure the wound which I had received.  The ball had entered my shoulder,
curiosity.  Finding the door open, I entered.  An old man sat in it,
cursory knowledge of history and a view of the several empires at
damp substance that covered the ground.
dared not enter it.  My place of refuge was constructed of wood, but so
dared to fancy amiable and lovely creatures sympathizing with my
dark, but gentle, although animated; her features of a regular
darkened and sometimes disclosed the Mole, a peaked mountain to the
darling child!'
daughter to the town of Lucerne, where he lived unknown and in
day additional ideas.  My eyes became accustomed to the light and to
day and night, and my familiarity with them increased that regret which
day confined to the inn.  In this house I chanced to find a volume of
day when I received life!' I exclaimed in agony.  `Accursed creator!
day!  Even now, as I commence my task, his full-toned voice swells in
day's experience that I was unwilling to commence this undertaking
days or imaginary evils; at least they were remote and more familiar to
dead and acted towards him like a most affectionate mother.  For my own
dead; eternal woe and tears she then thought was the just tribute she
dear Justine, that nothing can shake my confidence in you for a moment,
death and suicide were calculated to fill  me with wonder.  I did not
death!  Nor were these my only visions.  The raising of ghosts or
deaths of William and Justine.  Our house was the house of mourning. My
deaths of her favourites was a judgement from heaven to chastise her
decisive.  Fear overcame me; I dared no advance, dreading a thousand
decisive."
deck and remaining seated motionless for hours, when no exercise
declared your guilt.  That report, you say, is false; and be assured,
declined it.  She played a simple air, and her voice accompanied it in
decreased; and in the tenth month her father died in her arms, leaving
deem me romantic, my dear sister, but I bitterly feel the want of a
deemed marvellous.  Were we among the tamer scenes of nature I might
deep and bitter agony.  I gnashed my teeth and ground them together,
deep consciousness of what they owed towards the being to which they
deeply did I feel the spirit of revenge enkindled in my heart.  Snow
deeply; but I am not so wretched as you are.  There is an expression of
deformity.
degree of tranquillity; and when I considered what had passed at the
degree; the fall of a leaf startled me, and I shunned my fellow
degrees the calm and heavenly scene restored me, and I continued my
delay very bitterly; for I longed to see my native town and my beloved
delight welcomed his Arabian.  Agatha, the ever-gentle Agatha, kissed
delight--so deeply was I engrossed in my occupation.  The leaves of
delight.  As I stood at the door, on a sudden I beheld a stream of fire
delighted to find that the setting of the sun did not put an end to the
delightful sensations.  A serene sky and verdant fields filled me with
delights were the sight of the flowers, the birds, and all the gay
delirium to a tale otherwise so utterly improbable.  I well knew that
demeanour and conciliating words, I should first win their favour and
departed.  I never saw any of the family of De Lacey more.
departure was therefore fixed at an early date, but before the day
departure, before which time the Turk renewed his promise that she
depended on the lessons of any of the professors at Ingolstadt, my
depraved wretch, whose delight was in carnage and misery; had he not
depravity and ungratitude in one I valued so highly."
depressed.  I am about to proceed on a long and difficult voyage, the
deprived myself of rest and health.  I had desired it with an ardour
describe a sorrow which all have felt, and must feel?  The time at
description horrible, and more, much more (I persuaded myself) was yet
desire to ameliorate his fate if it were in my power.  I expressed
desire, was left alone in the cottage.  When his children had departed,
desired to have a daughter, but I continued their single offspring.
desired to plead, she collected her powers and spoke in an audible
desirous to engage him.  A youth passed in solitude, my best years
desolate state and made me feel more painfully that I was not made for
despair and endeavour to hide myself from his view.
despair had penetrated into the core of my heart; I bore a hell within
despair, and sometimes of revenge, in your countenance that makes me
despair, kneeling by the coffin of her dead father.  Her garb was
despicable.  By one of those caprices of the mind which we are perhaps
destination?  These questions continually recurred, but I was unable to
destined to endure.  It was completely dark when I arrived in the
destroy me wantonly.  Did the murderer place it there?  I know of no
destroyed the cottage and its inhabitants and have glutted myself with
destruction upon the head of the speaker.  The pines are not tall or
determination.  Taking with her some jewels that belonged to her and a
determination.'
determined at one time that the memory of these evils should die with
determined heart and resolved will of man?
determined thenceforth to apply myself more particularly to those
determined to seek that justice which I vainly attempted to gain from
determined."
detestation and contempt.
developed new and mightier scenes of action.  I read of men concerned
devils was a promise liberally accorded by my favourite authors, the
devote myself to a science for which I believed myself to possess a
did not comprehend, but I saw that her presence diffused gladness
did not despair.  From you only could I hope for succour, although
did not doubt that, instead of doing harm, he performed the kindest
did not, like him, attempt a critical knowledge of their dialects, for
did there, but she looked very strangely and only returned a confused
difference of sexes, and the birth and growth of children, how the
different feelings; wiping a few tears from her lovely eyes, she held
different from the manly and heroical poetry of Greece and Rome!
different stock.  The four others were dark-eyed, hardy little
difficulty and labour.  I doubted at first whether I should attempt the
difficulty to persuade my father that all necessary knowledge was not
dignity in the vessel and entreated me to remain with the greatest
directed towards my plan of introducing myself into the cottage of my
disappeared in the light of morning whilst I was yet engaged in my
disappeared, and nothing remained but a blasted stump.  When we visited
disappointment, no one will endeavour to sustain me in dejection. I
discerned how peculiarly fortunate my lot was, and gratitude assisted
discontented and unsatisfied.  Sir Isaac Newton is said to have avowed
discover what I knew of the murderer, and cause instant pursuit to be
discovered my lovely boy, whom the night before I had seen blooming and
discovered that he uttered many of the same sounds when he read as when
discovered them.  Felix soon learned that the treacherous Turk, for
discovered to me more clearly what a wretched outcast I was.  I
discoveries of modern philosophers, I always came from my studies
discoveries of recent inquirers for the dreams of forgotten
discovering that his deliverer was thus reduced to poverty and ruin,
discovery to my father.  My father looked carelessly at the title page
discovery were distinct and probable.  After days and nights of
discrimination, which modern inquirers have written on these subjects.
disgust?  God, in pity, made man beautiful and alluring, after his own
dismissed me after mentioning that in the beginning of the following
dismissing her guide, conducted her into the cottage.  Some
disorder.  He knew that I could not have a more kind and attentive
dispersed the clouds that had loitered in the heavens; the blast tore
displayed in their most terrific guise.  Still, as I ascended higher,
disposition and habits and endeavoured by arguments deduced from the
disposition; but, with all my ardour, I was capable of a more intense
dispositions and irreproachable conduct, about to fail the accused,
dispositions; my life has been hitherto harmless and in some degree
dissecting room and the slaughter-house furnished many of my
distant inequalities of the ice.  This appearance excited our
distinction between the several classes of its inhabitants; and the
distinguish was the bright moon, and I fixed my eyes on that with
distinguish, nothing; but feeling pain invade me on all sides, I sat
distinguished for his rank and magnificence.  Having paid his debts,
distinguished nothing.  From my earliest remembrance I had been as I
distinguished of that republic.  My ancestors had been for many years
disturb his tranquillity.  I do not think that the pursuit of knowledge
disturbed by the wildest dreams.  I thought I saw Elizabeth, in the
disturbed, with profane fingers, the tremendous secrets of the human
disunion or dispute.  Harmony was the soul of our companionship, and
diverted my mind from the thoughts over which it had brooded for the
docile to my natural lord and king if thou wilt also perform thy part,
does the beauties of nature.  The starry sky, the sea, and every sight
dogs, pass on towards the north, at the distance of half a mile; a
domestic manners it described, combined with lofty sentiments and
done by paying the insurance for the owner, and to engage as many
doomed by slavery to toil in the mines, or any other unwholesome trade
door--led me first to M. Krempe, professor of natural philosophy.  He
doting fondness of age, for it was inspired by reverence for her
doubt of my ability to give life to an animal as complex and wonderful
doubtful or suspicious."
doubtless, excited your curiosity, as well as that of these good
down and wept.
down beside the old man, who, taking up an instrument, began to play
dreaded, I did not conceive the hundredth part of the anguish I was
dream of pleasure.  His blind and aged father and his gentle sister lay
dreary glaciers are my refuge.  I have wandered here many days; the
dressed; and these signs of comfort increased daily as the season
drew nearer I observed that it was the Swiss diligence; it stopped just
dried and itself became inflamed.  I reflected on this, and by touching
drink and the trees that shaded me with their foliage.  I was delighted
drive you to desperation, and not instigate you to virtue.  I also am
drivest from joy for no misdeed.  Everywhere I see bliss, from which I
drunk also of the intoxicating draught?  Hear me; let me reveal my
dry branch of a tree and danced with fury around the devoted cottage,
during many months, calm and serene joy.  I welcomed my friend,
during the night, to steal a part of their store for my own
duties which we ought to perform; we must continue our course with the
duties, to record, as nearly as possible in his own words, what he has
dying away like a nightingale of the woods.
eagerness, I pursued nature to her hiding-places.  Who shall conceive
earlier years.  The tale was quickly told, but it awakened various
earliest sensations I can remember.
earnestly, "You are all mistaken; I know the murderer.  Justine, poor,
earnestness, so valuable did he consider my services.  And now, dear
ears, proceeded from the throats of the little winged animals who had
earth!  How often did I imprecate curses on the cause of my being!  The
earth, and the season became far more pleasant than it had been.
earth, the habitations of another race of beings.
easily engaged him to assist in my enterprise.  The master is a person
easily perceived that, although I eagerly longed to discover myself to
east of the lake.
eat.  The meal was quickly dispatched.  The young woman was again
ecstasy.  The present season was indeed divine; the flowers of spring
ecstatic joy, of which I could hardly have believed it capable; his
effect of solemnizing my mind and causing me to forget the passing
effectual measures to conceal himself, and it was ten months before my
eighteenth century; but while I followed the routine of education in
elder brother returns to us.  My uncle is not pleased with the idea of
electricity and galvanism, which was at once new and astonishing to
electricity.  On this occasion a man of great research in natural
elevate my mind until it was on a level with your own.  A selfish
elevates him so immeasurably above any other person I ever knew.  I
elevating his soul from earth.  Such a man has a double existence:  he
elevating, to a degree I never experienced in studying the authors of
embers when they were nearly extinguished.  When night came again I
embers, but quickly drew it out again with a cry of pain.  How strange,
embraced the gallant vessel on its course and wrecked it--thus!
emergencies of which will demand all my fortitude:  I am required not
emotion; he placed his hands before his eyes, and my voice quivered and
empire, of chivalry, Christianity, and kings.  I heard of the discovery
empires of Mexico and Peru had not been destroyed.
employed in digging and pulling up roots.  After he had been employed
emulation for virtue.  The prospect of marrying a Christian and
encouraging voice would answer in the affirmative!  My courage and my
end and that I am at length free."
end of three months he lay on a bed of sickness, incapable of any
endeavouring to plunge me into the abyss.  William and Justine were
endeavouring to seek him out, with the hope of persuading him to begin
endued with a figure hideously deformed and loathsome; I was not even
endure the worst.  I leave a sad and bitter world; and if you remember
engaged, heart and soul, in the pursuit of some discoveries which I
enjoyment, or even the discharge of daily usefulness, without which no
enter, and when we were left alone with her, she threw herself at the
entered attentively into all my arguments in favour of my eventual
entered into conversation, using violent gesticulations; but I did not
entered the cottage, in which they remained for a few minutes, and then
entered the hut, the fiend with an air of exultation, I with a heavy
entered with the greatest diligence into the search of the
enthusiasm was checked by my anxiety, and I appeared rather like one
enthusiastic terms of her mother, who, born in freedom, spurned the
entirely recovered from the first shock it had sustained.  I shunned
environs of Geneva; the gates of the town were already shut; and I was
escaped to the open country and fearfully took refuge in a low hovel,
eternal justice of man!  Yet I ask you not to spare me; listen to me,
even more pain than the benevolent approbation of M. Waldman.  "D--n
even upon me.  Agatha listened with respect, her eyes sometimes filled
even why there were laws and governments; but when I heard details of
evening William had teased her to let him wear a very valuable
evening with us.  He had endeavoured to persuade his father to permit
event as to the consummation of his happiness.
events that impressed me with feelings which, from what I had been,
every day showed me more plainly how well I had succeeded.  But my
every enticement that wealth placed in my path.  Oh, that some
every object the most insupportable to the delicacy of the human
every thing seemed of a pitchy darkness, until the eye recovered itself
every wind that blows and a chance word or scene that that word may
everybody.
everything and cannot begin life anew."
evil, and I foresaw obscurely that I was destined to become the most
evil, then the actual bitterness of grief commences.  Yet from whom has
examine the cause and progress of this decay and forced to spend days
examine the causes of life, we must first have recourse to death.  I
examined the materials of the fire, and to my joy found it to be
examining and analysing all the minutiae of causation, as exemplified
excellent opportunity; yet, when I proceeded to execute my plan, my
except in very rare instances, as a vagabond and a slave, doomed to
exception of her neglected daughter, was left childless.  The
excited was obliterated in the minds of the spectators by the
exciting.  I often referred the several situations, as their similarity
exculpated her who suffered through me.
execution of the barbarous sentence.  Felix visited the grate at night
exercise and amusement would then drive away incipient disease; and I
exercise and by change of place, some relief from my intolerable
exertion.
exhibited. He said that "These were men to whose indefatigable zeal
exhortations of the old man and the lively conversation of the loved
existence of the living monument of presumption and rash ignorance
expanding leaves--sights which before always yielded me supreme
expect such success, yet I cannot bear to look on the reverse of the
expectation of that event; and in the meantime he enjoyed the society
expected.
experienced sensations of horror, and I have endeavoured to bestow upon
explain to Safie, and by which he appeared to wish to express that she
exposed and unprotected to the malice of the fiend whom I had let loose
expostulate with her father, but he left her angrily, reiterating his
express her thoughts in the language of her lover by the aid of an old
express, my friend, that you expect to be informed of the secret with
expressed joy, the cause of which I did not comprehend.  Presently I
expressed on receiving new from my friends.  I threw the letter on the
expressed the most heartfelt exultation in my progress.  Two years
expressed.  Sometimes she struggled with her tears, but when she was
expression continually remind me of my dear aunt.
exquisite beauty of the Arabian, these thoughts vanished and a gush of
extinguished and the sound of a voice so familiar and dear to the ear
extinguished their lights and retired, as I conjectured, to rest."
extreme youth and my want of a guide on such matters, I had retrod the
eye.  This expedition has been the favourite dream of my early years. I
eyes and attitude expressed the utmost sadness and despondency.  The
eyes sparkled, as his cheek flushed with pleasure; and at that moment I
eyes, as I now suppose, the light poured in upon me again.  I walked
eyes.  She sang, and her voice flowed in a rich cadence, swelling or
face so expressive of sensibility and sweetness that none could behold
fail in ultimately turning to the solid advantage of mankind."  I
failed me as I beheld tears trickle fast from between his fingers; a
failed to move the judges from their settled conviction in the
fallen to my lot, and expressed my conviction that a man could boast of
familiarly by the name of cousin.  No word, no expression could body
family in France, where he had lived for many years in affluence,
far as I understood the signification of those terms, relative as they
farmer, because he often went forth and did not return until dinner,
fate awaiting me.  Learn from me, dear lady, to submit in patience to
fate is nearly fulfilled.  I wait but for one event, and then I shall
father and surviving brother; should I by my base desertion leave them
father discovered his abode.  Overjoyed at this discovery, he hastened
father doted on the smiles of the infant, and the lively sallies of the
father of the girl consented to the match.  He saw his mistress once
father was a narrow-minded trader and saw idleness and ruin in the
father's desire, and represented Caroline Beaufort in an agony of
father's health was deeply shaken by the horror of the recent events.
father's woe, and the desolation of that late so smiling home all was
father, who seems sinking under his misfortune; and your persuasions
fatigue, I lay down among some straw and fell asleep.
fatigued with excess of bodily exertion and sank on the damp grass in
faults of your poor brother!  I am too ardent in execution and too
favour of his pursuits.  In rather a too philosophical and connected a
favour of poor Justine, on whom the public indignation was turned with
favourable eye upon thy creature, who implores thy goodness and
favourite schoolfellow, Louis Manoir, has suffered several misfortunes
fear nothing, but let your spirits be cheered by the assurance of her
fear to encounter your unbelief, perhaps your ridicule; but many things
feared that his sufferings had deprived him of understanding.  When he
fearfully in:  the apartment was empty, and my bedroom was also freed
feel so many overwhelming terrors.  I tenderly love these friends; I
feel the inconvenience of the weather; my imagination was busy in
feeling that all was not over and that he would still commit some
feeling?  This breeze, which has travelled from the regions towards
feelings and cheering my gloom; their angelic countenances breathed
feelings and loved the gentle manners and amiable qualities of my
feelings of his serene conscience and guiltless life to inspire me with
feelings of indignation, delight, and wonder, but which all terminated
feelings of revenge and hatred filled my bosom, and I did not strive to
feelings to one another by articulate sounds.  I perceived that the
feelings were those of rage and revenge.  I could with pleasure have
feelings which can arm one being against the existence of another.
feelings, I was of course led to admire peaceable lawgivers, Numa,
feelings, exquisitely beautiful.  Yet she appeared confident in
feelings, which had for their object something out of self, accorded
feelings.  I saw how the fine form of man was degraded and wasted; I
feet of Elizabeth, weeping bitterly.  My cousin wept also.
fell into violent hysterics and kept her bed for several days.  The
fell, and the waters were hardened, but I rested not.  A few incidents
fellow! one only consolation have we; his friends mourn and weep, but
felt depressed; when they rejoiced, I sympathized in their joys.  I saw
felt impelled to hurry on, although drenched by the rain which poured
felt still more gloomily.  The picture appeared a vast and dim scene of
felt when I learned the ideas appropriated to each of these sounds and
felt, heard, and smelt at the same time; and it was, indeed, a long
feminine attentions on her playmate and friend.
festering, the wounds of our minds.  Enter the house of mourning, my
few human beings besides them, and if any other happened to enter the
fibres, muscles, and veins, still remained a work of inconceivable
fields.
fifteen years old we had retired to our house near Belrive, when we
figure, and his features were moulded with the finest symmetry, yet his
filled his soul.  The resources of his mind on this occasion were truly
filled up with wood. In one of these was a small and almost
filled with the bitterest sensations of despondence and mortification.
finding myself unsympathized with, wished to tear up the trees, spread
finish.  Heaven bless my beloved sister!
firing sufficient for the consumption of several days.
firm hold on my mind; perhaps, if my first introduction to humanity had
firmly as in the gospel, has now set himself at the head of the
first care was to procure the whole works of this author, and
first have I heard the voice of kindness directed towards me; I shall
first yielded to our entreaties, but when she heard that the life of
fixed for the latter end of autumn; but being delayed by several
fixed was to enter the dwelling when the blind old man should be
flitted before me.  I looked upon them as superior beings who would be
floating sheets of ice that continually pass us, indicating the dangers
floundering desperately in a very slough of multifarious knowledge,
fly from this place.'
followed the relinquishing of my ancient and latterly tormenting
followers of Muhammad.  This lady died, but her lessons were indelibly
fool in having exposed my person to the horror of his children.  I
for clearness and precision; add to this a facility of expression and a
for escape before Felix could return to Italy, Safie should remain as a
for gods, which, so short a time before, was bleak, damp, and
for nearly six years.  How altered every thing might be during that
for nearly two years.  During all that period she appeared to me the
for so long a journey, and how wretched my sickness would make
for speech which he understood, and I ardently longed to comprehend
for support.  The figure passed me quickly, and I lost it in the gloom.
for there was a certain dignity in his mien during his lecture which in
for vivacity.  Nor was her residence at her mother's house of a nature
for which he could not account, and my loud, unrestrained, heartless
for wonder and delight.
for you.'
forbidden to write--to hold a pen; yet one word from you, dear Victor,
forebodings.  I arrived here yesterday, and my first task is to assure
foreign accent.  "Before I come on board your vessel," said he, "will
forever--that the brightness of a beloved eye can have been
forgetfulness.  But it was in vain; I slept, indeed, but I was
forgetting my solitude and deformity, dared to be happy.  Soft tears
form, showed itself, while I still remained in the forest.  My
form?  His limbs were in proportion, and I had selected his features as
formed a great hindrance to my speed, I resolved, contrary to my first
formed this determination and having spent some months in successfully
forms, opened before me, and I began to ascend the mountain that
forth the kind of relation in which she stood to me--my more than
fortitude and awaken in me the courage to dispel the dark cloud which
fortunate country, does not include the idea of ignorance and a
fortune could have befallen me, but when I became assured that my enemy
fortune, and having amassed a considerable sum in prize-money, the
forward.  Elizabeth saw even this last resource, her excellent
found a man who, before his spirit had been broken by misery, I should
found all the sailors busy on one side of the vessel, apparently
found on the ground a leathern portmanteau containing several articles
found that a greater degree of plenty reigned there.  Felix and Agatha
found that he read aloud, but at that time I knew nothing of the
found, by the frequent recurrence of some sound which the stranger
found, with pleasure, that the fire gave light as well as heat and that
fragment of ice.  Only one dog remained alive; but there was a human
frame.  In a solitary chamber, or rather cell, at the top of the house,
frank-hearted and happy.  My aunt conceived a great attachment for her,
freely in my veins, but a weight of despair and remorse pressed on my
frementi, who exerted himself to obtain the liberty of his country.  He
friend who would have sense enough not to despise me as romantic, and
friend, but with kindness and affection for those who love you, and not
friend, rushed out of the cottage.  Felix darted forward, and with
friend.  I have no one near me, gentle yet courageous, possessed of a
friends and his own good fortune in being permitted to come to
friends around you, who centre all their hopes in you.  Have we lost
friends who love you dearly.  Your father's health is vigorous, and he
friends.  But if his countenance was more sorrowful, his voice was more
friends.  My return had only been delayed so long, from an
friends.  Still I would penetrate their misty veil and seek them in
frightful loudness from various quarters of the heavens.  I remained,
from a black and comfortless sky.
from all littleness of feeling, and although they did not remove my
from destruction, and as a recompense I now writhed under the miserable
from its hideous guest.  I could hardly believe that so great a good
from labour--the old man played on his guitar, and the children
from the barbarity of man.  As soon as morning dawned I crept from my
from the force of the current, saved her and dragged her to shore.  She
from the preceding flash.  The storm, as is often the case in
from their door one, however monstrous, who solicited their compassion
from thence to gather promise of new hopes, I was seized by remorse and
from those he had used in the morning, directed his steps across the
from you.  Hear my tale; it is long and strange, and the temperature of
frontiers of Italy, they passed a week on the shores of the Lake of
frost and desolation; it ever presents itself to my imagination as the
fulfilment of which I most eagerly sought; and if my incantations were
full of brotherly love and charity.  Rely, therefore, on your hopes;
fully convinced that I was in reality the monster that I am, I was
furtherance of my enterprise.  One man's life or death were but a small
gained the resignation she desired.  But I, the true murderer, felt the
gall of envy rose within me.
garden rose among dark-leaved brambles.  When my father returned from
garden?  I do not wish to take any unfair advantage, and I beg
gathered round me and bade me be at peace.
gave him pretty nearly the same account of my former pursuits as I had
gazed on my midnight labours, while, with unrelaxed and breathless
generally found that her countenance and tone were more cheerful after
generally melancholy and despairing, and sometimes he gnashes his
generation and life; nay, more, I became myself capable of bestowing
generosity were ever present before me, inciting within me a desire to
generosity, so full of kindness and tenderness amidst his passion for
gentle breezes of spring; all joy was but a mockery which insulted my
gentleness and the mildness of his discipline.  This circumstance,
gentleness, and he rewarded them by his benevolent smiles.
girl was young and of gentle demeanour, unlike what I have since found
give them to you; they will prove the truth of my tale; but at present,
given to his fellow professor.  He heard with attention the little
gladness akin to rapture, as they were unfolded to me, are among the
glance from Justine could dissipate it, for the same reason that
globe.  Its productions and features may be without example, as the
gloom a figure which stole from behind a clump of trees near me; I
godlike.  To be a great and virtuous man appeared the highest honour
going I must form my own friends and be my own protector.  My life had
gone, tracing a secure way over the pathless seas, the very stars
good Justine, is innocent."
gossip concerning the good people of Geneva.  The pretty Miss Mansfield
governments, and religions of the different nations of the earth.  I
gradually relinquished all his public functions; and immediately after
grateful.  Adieu!  my cousin; take care of your self; and, I entreat
gratification of your wishes may not be a serpent to sting you, as mine
gratitude towards those who think of me with kindness.  How sweet is
great and overwhelming that all the steps by which I had been
great degree had been the instruments of bringing to light.  The
great enterprise.  I commenced by inuring my body to hardship.  I
great pile of wood on the outside.  She uttered some words in a loud
great relief in being the fellow-pupil with my friend, and found not
greater ardour to my former studies.  It is even possible that the
greater became my desire to claim their protection and kindness; my
greater powers than the ancient, because the powers of the latter were
greatest ardour for virtue rise within me, and abhorrence for vice, as
greatest attention.  About two hours after this occurrence we heard the
greatest consolation that I was capable of receiving.  They elevated me
greatest danger.  During her illness many arguments had been urged to
greatly lessened, when I began to distinguish my sensations from each
grief that touched me to the heart.  But he was silent and presently
grief to notice poor Justine, who had attended her during her illness
grief, they subdued and tranquillized it.  In some degree, also, they
grief?  He is so gentle, yet so wise; his mind is so cultivated, and
grieved my friend, I recovered.  I remember the first time I became
grievously bruised by stones and many other kinds of missile weapons, I
groan burst from his heaving breast.  I paused; at length he spoke, in
ground sea, and before night the ice broke and freed our ship.  We,
groundwork of my character that I cannot overcome an intense distaste
grow watchful with anxious thoughts, when a strange sight suddenly
guess your wishes nor minister to them with the care and affection of
guest was the subject of their conversation.  I ardently desired to
guided by an ardent imagination and childish reasoning, till an
guilt, I must be condemned, although I would pledge my salvation on my
had a far different effect upon me from the Sorrows of Werter.  I
had always been my favourite companion in the ramble of this nature
had been animated by an almost supernatural enthusiasm, my application
had been discovered, Justine had been taken ill, and confined to her
had been divulged and that he should speedily be delivered up to the
had been judged to be the temptation of the murderer.  The servant
had been relieved--for her to act in her turn the guardian angel to the
had changed in those savage and enduring scenes.
had commenced, and proceeded regularly.  In another fortnight I was
had confessed, he did not credit it."
had contemplated during the day.  They congregated round me; the
had created should perpetrate some new wickedness.  I had an obscure
had doubtless been built for the convenience of some shepherd.  This
had endured.
had first, however, provided for my sustenance for that day by a loaf
had forbidden my uncle to allow me to embark in a seafaring life.
had formerly beheld me.  My voice, although harsh, had nothing terrible
had gazed on him while unfinished; he was ugly then, but when those
had gazed upon the fortifications and impediments that seemed to keep
had given life, added to the active spirit of tenderness that animated
had in some measure recovered, I removed him to my own cabin and
had indeed fled, I clapped my hands for joy and ran down to Clerval.
had long been restored, and they gained additional strength from the
had made in the sciences.  He soon perceived that I disliked the
had no effect upon my fancy, and a churchyard was to me merely the
had no fear, therefore, that any circumstantial evidence could be
had no power to produce it.  By degrees, after the morning's dawn,
had no temptation for such an action; as to the bauble on which the
had often, when at home, thought it hard to remain during my youth
had placed carefully, one by one, in my view those instruments which
had run away to hide himself, and that he vainly sought for him, and
had seen before, which had drifted towards us in the night on a large
had taken an irresistible hold of my imagination.  I wished, as it
had worn when I first beheld the woods and the lovely moon.  Yet I did
hair of a shining raven black, and curiously braided; her eyes were
hair was plaited but not adorned:  she looked patient yet sad.  I lost
hairs covered his temples, but those at the back of his head were
half a league from the city.  The sky was serene; and, as I was unable
half my misfortune, and I feel as if I could die in peace now that my
half-extinguished light, I saw the dull yellow eye of the creature
halo around him, within whose circle no grief or folly ventures.
hand was stretched out, seemingly to detain me, but I escaped and
hand.  In the day, I believe, he worked sometimes for a neighbouring
hands seem only made to dabble in dirt, and their eyes to pore over the
hanging among the rocks of the nearly perpendicular ascent of Mont
happened that protracted my stay.
happened?"
happening to examine the apparel she had worn on the night of the
happiness, and I think of them with pleasure.  My country, my beloved
hardly appeared capable.  His appearance, different from any I had ever
hardly knew why; but when the man saw me draw near, he aimed a gun,
hardly sustain the multitude of feelings that crowded into my mind.  I
hardly that I felt the palpitation of every artery; at others, I nearly
harmony of the old man's instrument nor the songs of the birds; I since
has a tendency to weaken your affections and to destroy your taste for
has already received the congratulatory visits on her approaching
has been.  I do not know that the relation of my disasters will be
has committed a murder."
has once seized on it like a lichen on the rock.  I wished sometimes to
has retired into himself, he will be like a celestial spirit that has a
has swept away all my hopes and joys.  Natural philosophy is the genius
hastened to return home, and Elizabeth eagerly demanded the result.
hastened to welcome me:  "Welcome, my dearest Victor," said he.  "Ah! I
hastened towards the deeper parts of the wood.  I followed speedily, I
hatred and revenge burst all bounds of moderation.  I would have made a
have already reached a very high latitude; but it is the height of
have been a noble creature in his better days, being even now in wreck
have been happy to have possessed as the brother of my heart.
have been imbued with different sensations.
have been the occasion, but you will forgive me."
have confessed myself guilty of the crime ascribed to Justine, but I
have contented my imagination, warmed as it was, by returning with
have discovered myself to the rest of his family, when they should have
have endeavoured to discover what quality it is which he possesses that
have endured poverty, and while this distress had been the meed of his
have exchanged for the most precious wealth the earth can afford.  I
have made it my peculiar study; but at the same time, I have not
have made me what I am.
have no end.  Some of my comrades groaned, and my own mind began to
have no enemy on earth, and none surely would have been so wicked as to
have no friend, Margaret:  when I am glowing with the enthusiasm of
have no trace of him at present, although our exertions to discover him
have read with ardour the accounts of the various voyages which have
have so greedily imbibed are a thousand years old and as musty as they
have, unknown to them, been for many months in the habits of daily
having listened to the exhortations of her father.  It was not thus
havoc and destruction around me, and then to have sat down and enjoyed
he be (I shuddered at the conception) the murderer of my brother?  No
he called them, to cast off their melancholy.  He would talk in a
he could only express his heartfelt sympathy.  "Poor William!" said he,
he exerted himself to amuse me, while he expressed the sensations that
he hastened to Paris and delivered himself up to the vengeance of the
he is at rest. The pang is over, his sufferings are at an end for ever.
he is not so utterly occupied by his own misery but that he interests
he might not have been so perfectly humane, so thoughtful in his
he replied, "To seek one who fled from me."
he spoke I read in his kindling eye and in his animated glance a
he talked.  I conjectured, therefore, that he found on the paper signs
he then resided.  She hesitated some time, but at length she formed her
he took up his guitar and played several mournful but sweet airs, more
health.  He has already had one or two little WIVES, but Louisa Biron
hear regularly from you.  You must pardon me if I regard any
heard of the division of property, of immense wealth and squalid
heard of the exile of her lover and learnt the name of the spot where
heard of the slothful Asiatics, of the stupendous genius and mental
hearing a noise, and perceiving me, shrieked loudly, and quitting the
heart and depressed spirits.  But I consented to listen, and seating
heart which nothing could remove.  Sleep fled from my eyes; I wandered
heart yearned to be known and loved by these amiable creatures; to see
heart-sickening despair that I then endured.  The person to whom I
heart.  Unable to endure the aspect of the being I had created, I
heart?  Even as she spoke I drew near to her, as if in terror, lest at
heartless creator!  You had endowed me with perceptions and passions
hearts of your enemies by my tears and prayers.  You shall not die!
heaven, could redeem my soul from woe; the very accents of love were
heaven, where we shall all be happy; and that consoles me, going as I
heaven-sent, and bearing a celestial stamp in all her features. The
heavenly--if I except some bat, or the frogs, whose harsh and
hell to me; and the change was so rapid, the overthrow so complete!
helpless creature bestowed on them by heaven, whom to bring up to good,
her I received as made to a possession of my own.  We called each other
her an orphan and a beggar.  This last blow overcame her, and she knelt
her childish years.  There was the same candour, the same vivacity, but
her confusion had before been adduced as a proof of her guilt, she
her countenance, always engaging, was rendered, by the solemnity of her
her father and who by her gestures expressed her lively gratitude, the
her favourite was menaced, she could no longer control her anxiety. She
her for the sorrows she had endured, but which gave inexpressible grace
her hastily that he had reason to believe that his residence at Leghorn
her if she had seen anything of the child who was lost.  She was
her in her adversity.  She procured plain work; she plaited straw and
her mother, was a widow with four children, of whom Justine was the
her own judgment and feelings to decide.  "Yes," said Elizabeth, "I
her uncle and cousins.  Never was she so enchanting as at this time,
her utter guiltlessness.
her whom he loved.  This idea was torture to him.  He quickly arranged
her without looking on her as of a distinct species, a being
her words pierce my heart.  We are all unhappy; but will not that be an
her, and its dimming influence quenched her dearest smiles.
herself at his feet, entreated him to spare her, confessing at the same
herself away.  "I wish," cried she, "that I were to die with you; I
herself of having caused the death of my brother, and that made her
herself wept as Elizabeth spoke, but she did not answer.  My own
hid in caves dispersed themselves and were employed in various arts of
hideousness of my person was the chief object of horror with those who
hiding-places.  They ascend into the heavens; they have discovered how
high and snowy mountains were its immediate boundaries, but I saw no
high white steeple of the town met my eyes.  I alighted and was
highest distinction.  A few months before my arrival they had lived in
hills.  The apparition was soon explained.  With his permission my
him instant notice if any new object should appear in sight.
him that event which was so often present to my recollection, but which
him to accompany me and to become my fellow student, but in vain.  His
him to be tormented by their idle curiosity, in a state of body and
him, when I first saw him, the most miserable of his family.  He could
him.  Entreating him, therefore, to remain a few minutes at the bottom
himself deeply in the projects of others.  He has frequently conversed
hired a mule, as the more sure-footed and least liable to receive
his Creator; he was allowed to converse with and acquire knowledge from
his brother; he said, that he had been playing with him, that William
his burden, and taking some of the fuel into the cottage, placed it on
his daughter, insultingly sending Felix a pittance of money to aid him,
his demand.  We crossed the ice, therefore, and ascended the opposite
his discourse the meaning of these unusual appearances.
his father, sister, and himself.  He had previously communicated his
his feelings, he appeared to despise himself for being the slave of
his grief only became more deep and rankling when he had leisure for
his hopes, if thus inexorable fate be satisfied, and if the destruction
his interests by the promise of her hand in marriage so soon as he
his means be tolerated by my younger protectors.
his neck, a murmur of horror and indignation filled the court.
his own house was replaced by the greatest affability and kindness.  I
his profession.  He is an Englishman, and in the midst of national and
his safety, your surprise would have been boundless.  His limbs were
his tale.
his tale.  I was partly urged by curiosity, and compassion confirmed my
histories of the first founders of the ancient republics.  This book
history of all the voyages made for purposes of discovery composed the
hitherto attended the schools of Geneva, but my father thought it
hitherto been remarkably secluded and domestic, and this had given me
hope.  I beg permission to have a few witnesses examined concerning my
hoped to make.  None but those who have experienced them can conceive
hopeless and despairing."  She wept.
hoping that some change would take place in the atmosphere and weather.
horror of my situation, and when I perceived that the popular voice and
horror, resolving to wait his approach and then close with him in
horrors and rendered mine indelible.  I sickened as I read.  `Hateful
horrors.  I do not ever remember to have trembled at a tale of
hour had rendered our residence within the walls of Geneva very irksome
house and sometimes in the yard.
house of an aunt at Chene, a village situated at about a league from
house which I inhabited, where I remained during the rest of the night,
how ill you have been and are uneasy at your long silence."
however miserable, from the inclemency of the season, and still more
however, lay to until the morning, fearing to encounter in the dark
however, the lieutenant asked why he had come so far upon the ice in so
human being.  Nature decayed around me, and the sun became heatless;
human beings from entering the citadel of nature, and rashly and
human body.  In my education my father had taken the greatest
hurried on with irregular steps, not daring to look about me:
husband and the father of a family.
hut, ran across the fields with a speed of which his debilitated form
huts, the neater cottages, and stately houses engaged my admiration by
ice had destroyed the other sledge.  I replied that I could not answer
ice.  I profited of this time to rest for a few hours.
ideas occupied my mind; all was confused.  I felt light, and hunger,
if any other had communicated such a relation to me, I should have
if anything had been heard concerning him.  When shown the body, she
if he should choose to betray him to the Italian state which they
if one wiser, better, dearer than ourselves--such a friend ought to
if she could have committed the crime for which she suffered, assuredly
ignominious grave, and I the cause!  A thousand times rather would I
ignorantly I had repined.
illiterate than many schoolboys of fifteen.  It is true that I have
illness, in a manner that excited the admiration of all who knew her,
image and that inconstant shade.
image; but my form is a filthy type of yours, more horrid even from the
imagination of the enormity she was supposed to have committed.  She
imagination was too much exalted by my first success to permit me to
imitation of the Eastern authors.  Through this work I obtained a
immediate suggestion of the guardian angel of my life--the last effort
impatient of difficulties.  But it is a still greater evil to me that I
impending famine disappeared.  Their food, as I afterwards found, was
imperceptible chink through which the eye could just penetrate.
imperfect, yet when I considered the improvement which every day takes
impervious to my touch or sight; but I now found that I could wander on
impetuous Arve, and cottages every here and there peeping forth from
impossible to return to my retreat during that day.  Accordingly I hid
impossible; even now your eye skims over the page to seek the words
impressed on the mind of Safie, who sickened at the prospect of again
impressed themselves on my mind and I remembered them afterwards in
improvements have been and may be made; it is on that account that I
in a loud voice, produces a concussion of air sufficient to draw
in a noisome dungeon while he enjoyed the free air and the society of
in a transparent pool!  At first I started back, unable to believe that
in additional love and reverence for my protectors (for so I loved, in
in case of failure.  Prepare to hear of occurrences which are usually
in collecting wood for the family fire, and during the night I often
in contemplation.  Nothing could exceed the love and respect which the
in every direction, vast and irregular plains of ice, which seemed to
in every other respect.  He had come forth from the hands of God a
in her innocence; I knew it.  Could the demon who had (I did not for a
in his letters and only took notice of my silence by inquiring into my
in imitation of the Persian and Arabic writers, he invented tales of
in it; I thought, therefore, that if in the absence of his children I
in me an infinity of new images and feelings, that sometimes raised me
in my study, rought through the ardour of my nature, but that she was
in one single circumstance, that in all the misery I imagined and
in public affairs, governing or massacring their species.  I felt the
in science was chiefly founded.  I was required to exchange chimeras of
in serving you--he bids you weep, to shed countless tears; happy beyond
in the beginning of the month of August of the same year.
in the change from life to death, and death to life, until from the
in the folds of the flannel.  I started from my sleep with horror; a
in the hovel, to procure the implements of writing; and the letters
in the magnificence, the eternity of such scenes, to forget myself and
in the marvellous, intertwined in all my projects, which hurries me out
in the meantime he hoped to procure some respectable employment in a
in the most melancholy reflections.  I, who had ever been surrounded by
in the precious charge, how the mind of youth expanded and gained
in the service of his country, and Agatha had ranked with ladies of the
in the ship on all sides, scarcely leaving her the sea-room in which
in their secondary and tertiary grades were utterly unknown to him.  I
in which one must fall."
inaction and certainty which follows and deprives the soul both of hope
increase my misery?  Life, although it may only be an accumulation of
increased every minute, and the thunder burst with a terrific crash
increased, I brought my work near to a conclusion.
incredible labour and fatigue, I succeeded in discovering the cause of
indeed a paradise compared to the bleak forest, my former residence,
indeed but a passing trance, that only made me feel with renewed
indeed owed its origin to some uncommon and terrible event.
indifferent, therefore, to my school-fellows in general; but I united
indignation were uncontrollable when he heard the decision of the
indiscriminately.  I confess that neither the structure of languages,
indistinct.  A strange multiplicity of sensations seized me, and I saw,
industrious--painstaking, a workman to execute with perseverance and
ineffectual.  I was encompassed by a cloud which no beneficial
inexperience and mistake than to a want of skill or fidelity in my
infallibly arrive at great proficiency in that study; and I, who
infant days, no mother had blessed me with smiles and caresses; or if
inflamed, and I ardently wished to extinguish that life which I had so
infliction.  My daily vows rose for revenge--a deep and deadly
influence could penetrate.  The wounded deer dragging its fainting
influence, the Angel of Destruction, which asserted omnipotent sway
ingenuity.  We returned to our college on a Sunday afternoon:  the
inglorious career, he turned his eyes toward the East, as affording
inhabited, to seek for one where the few wants I experienced would be
inhabited.  He revolved a thousand plans by which he should be enabled
injure anything human, I turned my fury towards inanimate objects.  As
injurer, with increased swiftness, escaped into the wood.
injury on these rugged roads.  The weather was fine; it was about the
injustice of his sentence was very flagrant; all Paris was indignant;
injustice that I read in books or heard from others as tales of ancient
innocence and did not tremble, although gazed on and execrated by
innocence and joy, the other far more dreadfully murdered, with every
innocence is acknowledged by you, dear lady, and your cousin."
innocence."
innocent?  I am not one of your enemies, I believed you guiltless,
inspiriting fled with sleep, and dark melancholy clouded every thought.
instantly showed it to one of the others, who, without saying a word to
instructor, without letting escape (inexperience in life would have
instructors.  And thus for a time I was occupied by exploded systems,
instrument which produced the divine sounds that had enchanted me in
instrument, he sat absorbed in reflection.
instruments, which procured me great esteem and admiration at the
insurrection and turmoil; I felt that order would thence arise, but I
intellect and an independence of spirit forbidden to the female
intelligence soon in your own handwriting.
intended to leave his daughter under the care of a confidential
intention, to make the being of a gigantic stature, that is to say,
intentions were affectionate, although his manners were rude, deserved
intercourse of my fellow-creatures, and rendered me unsocial; but
interested in him, although they have had very little communication
interesting creature:  his eyes have generally an expression of
internal evidence of the truth of the events of which it is composed."
interpreter, and sometimes with the interpretation of looks; and Safie
interrupted croaking was heard only when I approached the shore--often,
interruption in your correspondence as a proof that your other duties
interspersed by rifts that sink deep.  The field of ice is almost a
into a decline, which at first increased her irritability, but she is
into foreign service, but we cannot part with him, at least until his
into good hands.  The Italian had mentioned the name of the spot for
into his laboratory and explained to me the uses of his various
into sleep.
into the recesses of nature and show how she works in her
invincible burden.
invincible repugnance to new countenances.  I loved my brothers,
irreparable.  What do you intend to do?"
irresistible proof of the fact.  I thought of pursuing the devil; but
irretrievable, and after much consideration I resolved to return to the
is an exception to this rule.  If the study to which you apply yourself
is considered as a remarkably early season, so that perhaps I may sail
is his favourite, a pretty little girl of five years of age.
is necessary to calm our apprehensions.  For a long time I have thought
is only now delayed until the weather shall permit my embarkation.  The
issue from an old and beautiful oak which stood about twenty yards from
it had been her own!  I could not consent to the death of any human
it is that prejudice which I wish to overcome.'
it the next morning, we found the tree shattered in a singular manner.
it to be necessary, and when I heard of a mariner equally noted for his
it to my hovel.  Fortunately the books were written in the language,
it utterly impossible.
it was allied to an expression more full of sensibility and intellect.
it was already night, I crept forth from my hiding-place, and went in
it was indeed I who was reflected in the mirror; and when I became
it was sufficient to provide him with sustenance for some months, and
it was taught to the stranger, and this opened before me a wide field
it was without her knowledge.  That she had been bewildered when
it would have been in vain, for another flash discovered him to me
it, I was in the greatest fear lest my fire should be extinguished.  I
it, and wrapping myself up in my cloak, I struck across the wood
it, as I had read the other volumes which had fallen into my hands, as
it.  But I was baffled in every attempt I made for this purpose.  Their
it; and when I have expressed my utter ignorance, I am only left to
its beauty compensated for its dilatoriness.
its homeward voyage from Archangel; more fortunate than I, who may not
its most important benefits from such a conviction that I perceived the
its original inhabitants.
its own sake.  He was deeply read in books of chivalry and romance.  He
its own shadows."
its truth; my teeth chattered, and I was forced to lean against a tree
its way through the window shutters, I beheld the wretch--the
its worst shape.  One day, when my father had gone by himself to Milan,
itself, with a desire, as I evidently saw, of drawing me out.  What
jaws opened, and he muttered some inarticulate sounds, while a grin
join with my enemies to crush me, to condemn me as a murderer?" Her
joints more supple.  But I will not be tempted to set myself in
journey to Ingolstadt, which was long and fatiguing.  At length the
journey towards Geneva.
journey.  Some turn in the road, some new object suddenly perceived and
joy and hilarity.
judge, therefore, if I do not feel for your misfortunes.'
judged indecent in me to come forward on this occasion, but when I see
judges had rather that ten innocent should suffer than that one guilty
justified in conceiving that I should not be altogether free from
kennel, that I might view the adjacent cottage and discover if I could
kind Henry are not sufficient to reassure me on your account.  You are
kind of ignorant carelessness attends him, which, while it renders his
kind of rough usage, ill befitting the wounds that my mind had
kind to visit me; you, I hope, do not believe that I am guilty?"
kindliness of heart and the respect and obedience paid to him by his
kindly influence ceased to act--I found myself fettered again to grief
kindness and gentleness which I had entertained but a few moments
kindness towards them; but they believe that I wish to injure them, and
kindness, his affection, and his many letters; we are sincerely
kitchen stove.  By slow degrees he recovered and ate a little soup,
knelt at his feet. He raised her and smiled with such kindness and
knew him for his integrity and indefatigable attention to public
knew more.  I took their word for all that they averred, and I became
knew not why; but I remained some minutes with my eyes fixed on a coach
knew of my existence, they would do as you do, and arm themselves for
knightly adventure.  He tried to make us act plays and to enter into
know of her character.  I am well acquainted with the accused.  I have
know why Felix appeared so miserable and Agatha so sad.  I thought
knowledge and how much happier that man is who believes his native town
knowledge and wisdom, as I once did; and I ardently hope that the
knowledge of language, so that in two months I began to comprehend most
knowledge, of brother, sister, and all the various relationships which
knowledge.  Oh, that I had forever remained in my native wood, nor
knowledge.  They had left to us, as an easier task, to give new names
known nor felt beyond the sensations of hunger, thirst, and heat!
known path that conducted to the cottage.  All there was at peace.  I
laboratory.
laborious voyage with the joy a child feels when he embarks in a little
labour--but besides this there is a love for the marvellous, a belief
labours I endured were no longer to be alleviated by the bright sun or
labours of men of genius, however erroneously directed, scarcely ever
labours, performed by an invisible hand, greatly astonished them; and
labours.  I requested his advice concerning the books I ought to
lady who owes to him the happiness of her life.  This, briefly, is his
lake which lies between the promontory of Belrive and the village of
lake!
lake, making it appear like a vast sheet of fire; then for an instant
lake.  I fear that he will become an idler unless we yield the point
land of mist and snow," but I shall kill no albatross; therefore do not
landing, I ascended a low hill, that I might observe its progress.  It
language only.  I am now going to claim the protection of some friends,
languages engaged his attention, and I was easily induced to enter on
large assemblages of men. The cottage of my protectors had been the
last month.  I retired to rest at night; my slumbers, as it were,
late in autumn when I quitted the district where I had so long resided.
late-discovered unworthiness of one beloved and so was disposed to set
laughter frightened and astonished him.
law in my temperature they were turned not towards childish pursuits
law, hoping to free De Lacey and Agatha by this proceeding.
league from the city.  We resided principally in the latter, and the
league in width, but I spent nearly two hours in crossing it.  The
leaning upon the jutting rocks of the mountain or transversely upon
learned also the names of the cottagers themselves.  The youth and his
learned and applied the words, `fire,' `milk,' `bread,' and `wood.'  I
learned from Werter's imaginations despondency and gloom, but Plutarch
leaves no hope for doubt.  But she will be tried today, and you will
lecturing room, which M. Waldman entered shortly after.  This professor
left by some wandering beggars, and was overcome with delight at the
left him incredulous to the last, for his constant answer to my
length arrives when grief is rather an indulgence than a necessity; and
length discovered the open country.  A great fall of snow had taken
length overcame his dislike of learning, and he has permitted me to
less injury to my frame; my stature far exceeded theirs.  When I looked
letter, and I feel my heart glow with an enthusiasm which elevates me
letter.  One or two stiff gales and the springing of a leak are
letters that he received from this lovely girl, who found means to
licked it with their forked and destroying tongues.
life, or become the scourge of your fellow creatures and the author of
life.  I was new to sorrow, but it did not the less alarm me.  I was
life.  Whence, I often asked myself, did the principle of life
life?  Do your duty towards me, and I will do mine towards you and the
light!  Cursed (although I curse myself) be the hands that formed you!
lighthearted gaiety of boyhood.  The very winds whispered in soothing
lightning illuminated the object, and discovered its shape plainly to
lightnings that played above Mont Blanc and listening to the rushing of
like an evil spirit, for I had committed deeds of mischief beyond
limbs failed me and I sank to the ground.  Again I rose, and exerting
limbs to some untrodden brake, there to gaze upon the arrow which had
limit itself to the annihilation of those visions on which my interest
limit of my ambition.  I dared not think that they would turn them from
lineaments of his face are irradiated by the soul within.
lineaments were still a wonder and a mystery.  He might dissect,
lines, merely mentioning the day on which I should expect you.  But
lingered in the dungeons of Austria was not known.  His property was
lips, they became livid with the hue of death; her features appeared to
lips--with what interest and sympathy shall I read it in some future
listen to my history, and you will perceive how irrevocably it is
listened to him--that I observed the countenance of Felix was
listened to his statement, which was delivered without any presumption
literary pursuits differed wholly from those which had occupied me.  He
little circumstances might have by degrees worked other alterations,
little food or rest:  I required kindness and sympathy; but I did not
little happiness who did not enjoy this blessing.  "I agree with you,"
lived in the same house with her, at one time for five and at another
lived, it was only to weep and sigh.  She told me, that that same
lively pretty Frenchwoman, Madame Tavernier.  She is a widow, and much
lives of my parents were passed in considerable seclusion.  It was my
living spirit of love to soften and attract; I might have become sullen
living things!  Yet you, my creator, detest and spurn me, thy creature,
load of wood.  The girl met him at the door, helped to relieve him of
loathing.
long a journey, yet how often have I regretted not being able to
long before the mind can persuade itself that she whom we saw every day
longed to console and sympathise with my loved and sorrowing friends;
looked around for the means.  After many fruitless attempts to gain
looked upon it as the ravings of insanity.  Besides, the strange nature
looks and whose form and motions were lighter than the chamois of the
looks of affection and kindness.  What did their tears imply?  Did they
loss of the fire which I had obtained through accident and knew not how
lost himself, and was exposed to all the damps and dews of night;
lost that lovely darling boy, but this poor girl, whom I sincerely
love, is to be torn away by even a worse fate.  If she is condemned, I
loved, and whose existence was bound up in mine.  I thought also of my
lover, but to prepare to return to her native country.  The generous
low that I could with difficulty sit upright in it.  No wood, however,
lower orders, being neither so poor nor so despised, their manners are
lukewarm, for he knew that he was still in the power of his deliverer
luxuriances only formed a more horrid contrast with his watery eyes,
luxuriant, but they are sombre and add an air of severity to the
luxury; they had a fire to warm them when chill and delicious viands
machines, instructing me as to what I ought to procure and promising me
made by different men of learning, pronouncing with fervour the names
made by the spirit of preservation to avert the storm that was even
made me ashamed) any of the enthusiasm which stimulated my intended
made.  But I paused when I reflected on the story that I had to tell. A
madness by the vulgar.  Did any one indeed exist, except I, the
magnificent Mont Blanc, raised itself from the surrounding aiguilles,
magnificent appearances of things, I delighted in investigating their
malignity of the distemper--Elizabeth was saved, but the consequences
man and Agatha.
man appeared enraptured and said some words which Agatha endeavoured to
man decidedly refused, thinking himself bound in honour to my friend,
man is fit for society."
man when they reserved none for themselves.
man, a servant of her father who understood French.  She thanked him in
man, indeed, at once so powerful, so virtuous and magnificent, yet so
man.
man.  Young men should be diffident of themselves, you know, M.
manacled, and her head rested on her knees.  She rose on seeing us
manifested the greatest eagerness to be upon deck to watch for the
mankind, to the last generation, by discovering a passage near the pole
manner the bitterness and horror of my feelings.
manner.
manners in private were even more mild and attractive than in public,
manners of the girl enticed my love. He played a sweet mournful air
many leagues from Paris.  Felix had procured passports in the name of
marked the smoke of its passage.  Mont Blanc, the supreme and
marriage with a young Englishman, John Melbourne, Esq.  Her ugly
marrying early, nor was it until the decline of life that he became a
masquerades, in which the characters were drawn from the heroes of
master of the oriental languages, and thus he should open a field for
master of their language, which knowledge might enable me to make them
master said, "Here is our captain, and he will not allow you to perish
master the language; and I may boast that I improved more rapidly than
materials; and often did my human nature turn with loathing from my
mathematics and the branches of study appertaining to that science as
matter, I might in process of time (although I now found it impossible)
may speak to you on one subject, may I not?"
may suffer misery and be overwhelmed by disappointments, yet when he
may there discover the wondrous power which attracts the needle and may
me a fiend.  Make me happy, and I shall again be virtuous."
me and think of me as of one unjustly condemned, I am resigned to the
me as its creator and source; many happy and excellent natures would
me more powerful than thyself; my height is superior to thine, my
me of or bestow happiness on me forever.  I struggled vainly for firmness
me on every side, the sound of the river raging among the rocks, and
me that the principles of Agrippa had been entirely exploded and that a
me thy compassion.  By the virtues that I once possessed, I demand this
me to love the aspect of nature, and the cheerful faces of children.
me which nothing could extinguish.  We stayed several hours with
me with affection, should you never hear from me again.
me with disdain and horror.  The poor that stopped at their door were
me, and with renewed determination I approached the door of their
me, but you have won me to alter my determination.  You seek for
me.  All that he said threw greatly into the shade Cornelius Agrippa,
me.  I imagined that they would be disgusted, until, by my gentle
me; I felt my flesh tingle with excess of sensitiveness, and my pulse
me; and although I loved him with a mixture of affection and reverence
me; its gigantic stature, and the deformity of its aspect more hideous
me; the icy wall of the glacier overhung me; a few shattered pines were
mean that she made any professions I never heard one pass her lips, but
means to justify my poor guiltless Justine.  Alas! who is safe, if she
means to overcome the sensation of pain, and that was death--a state
medium for the communication of feeling.  I desire the company of a man
melancholy beyond expression; he sighed frequently, and once his father
men, who wished to ask him a thousand questions; but I would not allow
merchant who, from a flourishing state, fell, through numerous
merchant's house.  The interval was, consequently, spent in inaction;
merely a petty experimentalist, I should advise you to apply to every
microscope or crucible, have indeed performed miracles.  They penetrate
middle of the month of August, nearly two months after the death of
midnight among the precipices of an inaccessible mountain.  I
midnight, and the traveller might have arrived at a place of safety
midst of this darkness a sudden light broke in upon me--a light so
might close over me and my calamities forever.  But I was restrained,
might have been passed in ease and luxury, but I preferred glory to
might hereafter think it right to pursue, that for the present I would
might wreak the utmost extent of abhorrence on his head and avenge the
mild a vengeance for thy crimes.  Wretched devil!  You reproach me with
mildness of my nature had fled, and all within me was turned to gall
milk, and wine; the latter, however, I did not like.  Then, overcome by
mind only that I might afford them consolation and happiness.  But that
mind whose restoration evidently depended upon entire repose.  Once,
mind.  If this rule were always observed; if no man allowed any pursuit
mine became every day more tumultuous.  Increase of knowledge only
mingling, like an unadept, a thousand contradictory theories and
miniature of William; and my tears flowed when I looked upon it.  While
miniature that she possessed of your mother.  This picture is gone, and
minute doubt) murdered my brother also in his hellish sport have
minutely concerning my father, and her I named my cousin.
minutely described in these papers every step you took in the progress
mischances, into poverty.  This man, whose name was Beaufort, was of a
miserable monster whom I had created.  He held up the curtain of the
miserable, it was less strange that I, an imperfect and solitary being,
miserable."
misery, according as they fulfilled their duties towards me.  With this
misery, for when I would account to myself for the birth of that
modern philosophers were indebted for most of the foundations of their
modern system of science had been introduced which possessed much
modesty, and changed the subject from my improvement, to the science
monster.'
moon or the night was star-light, I went into the woods and collected
moon, for a while hides but cannot tarnish its brightness.  Anguish and
more certainly shine in the heavens than that which I now affirm is
more conveniently than from my hand of the pure water which flowed by
more divine being than I had ever beheld or imagined; his character
more easily satisfied.  In this emigration I exceedingly lamented the
more refined and moral.  A servant in Geneva does not mean the same
more ruined castles and fertile fields.  Immense glaciers approached
more.  He had partially unveiled the face of Nature, but her immortal
morning mists.  Felix seemed peculiarly happy and with smiles of
mortal combat.  He approached; his countenance bespoke bitter anguish,
most abstruse inquiries clear and facile to my apprehension.  My
most amiable and benevolent of human creatures.  She nursed Madame
most comprehensive sense of the term, became nearly my sole
most gratifying consummation of my toils.  But this discovery was so
most subject to in early youth, I at once gave up my former
most violent storm hung exactly north of the town, over the part of the
mother prevailed on her rustic guardians to yield their charge to her.
mother sickened; her fever was accompanied by the most alarming
motives and feelings of these lovely creatures; I was inquisitive to
motives which influenced their actions.
mountain river, from ignoble and almost forgotten sources; but,
mountain.  It is a scene terrifically desolate.  In a thousand spots
mounted high in the heavens, but the cottagers did not appear.  I
moved, and do not disdain me.  Listen to my tale; when you have heard
much more a murdered that could destroy radiant innocence!  Poor little
murder, had discovered in her pocket the picture of my mother, which
murdered child had been afterwards found.  The woman asked her what she
murdered my brother?
murdered.  As I could not pass through the town, I was obliged to cross
murderer!  I could not doubt it.  The mere presence of the idea was an
muscles and joints were rendered capable of motion, it became a thing
musical but unlike that of either of my friends.  On hearing this word,
must calm yourself.  These events have affected me, God knows how
must own I felt a little proud when my captain offered me the second
mutual pleasure--I was now alone.  In the university whither I was
my being; all the events of that period appear confused and
my beloved and only friend; may heaven, in its bounty, bless and
my bosom; my gloom disappeared, and in a short time I became as
my conversation had interested the father in my behalf, and  I was a
my cousin.  My father wished her not to go but said that he left it to
my creation and creator I was absolutely ignorant, but I knew that I
my dear sister of my welfare and increasing confidence in the success
my destruction.  Shall I not then hate them who abhor me?  I will keep
my ears; his lustrous eyes dwell on me with all their melancholy
my ephemeral, because human, sorrows.  My wanderings were directed
my eyes deceived me?  And was I really as mad as the whole world would
my eyes still fixed on the western horizon, the edge of which the moon
my father, brothers, and Elizabeth."
my friends were employed in their ordinary occupations.
my heart, who was so gentle, yet so gay!  Victor, he is murdered!
my home, and bending my steps towards the near Alpine valleys, sought
my home, my mother had said playfully, "I have a pretty present for my
my horror and misfortune; I felt suddenly, and for the first time
my judges to a favourable interpretation where any circumstance appears
my mother, accompanied by me, visited this abode.  She found a peasant
my nerves, so that I was obliged to shut my eyes.  Darkness then came
my opinion, far more agreeable than that of an English stagecoach.  The
my own Elizabeth:
my own food and fuel for the cottage.  When I returned, as often as it
my place to my younger children.  Alas!  I regret that I am taken from
my proficiency that of the masters.  Professor Krempe often asked me,
my retreat.  The floor was a little raised, so that it was kept
my sensations.  Before, dark and opaque bodies had surrounded me,
my time and amuse me, and I am rewarded for any exertions by seeing
myself by the fire which my odious companion had lighted, he thus began
myself in some thick underwood, determining to devote the ensuing hours
myself in the bonds of the closest friendship to one among them.  Henry
myself totally unfitted for the company of strangers.  Such were my
myself--or, in a more desperate fashion, I alighted and threw myself on
myself.  "My children," she said, "my firmest hopes of future happiness
nameless evils that made me tremble, although I was unable to define
names of Homer and Shakespeare are consecrated.  You are well
narration concerning my studies and smiled at the names of Cornelius
native country.  Now I am twenty-eight and am in reality more
native river. But supposing all these conjectures to be false, you
natural philosophy with whom I was acquainted appeared even to my boy's
natural talent.  On the same day I paid M. Waldman a visit.  His
nature of Safie was outraged by this command; she attempted to
nature; the past was blotted from my memory, the present was tranquil,
nature; they were a mixture of pain and pleasure, such as I had never
near a fire, over which he was preparing his breakfast.  He turned on
nearer together.  Elizabeth was of a calmer and more concentrated
nearly black.  His person was short but remarkably erect and his voice
nearly frozen, and his body dreadfully emaciated by fatigue and
nearly touched.  A part of its orb was at length hid, and I waved my
necessary for the completion of my education that I should be made
necessary to restore his composure.  Having conquered the violence of
necessity of becoming acquainted with more languages than that of my
necessity, a passion--remembering what she had suffered, and how she
neglected the other branches of science.  A man would make but a very
neglected them, but now that I was able to decipher the characters in
neighbouring fair.  All was silent in and around the cottage; it was an
never before visited, and may tread a land never before imprinted by
never beheld aught beautiful before. The silver hair and benevolent
never change; and I think our placid home and our contented hearts are
never driven away.  I asked, it is true, for greater treasures than a
never forget:  "The ancient teachers of this science," said he,
never shall know joy more.  But she will not, I am sure she will not;
never tinged by dogmatism, and his instructions were given with an air
never-dying worm alive in my bosom, which allowed of no hope or
never-ending source of speculation and astonishment.  The gentle and
next day or the next hour might realize.  One secret which I alone
night I passed!  The cold stars shone in mockery, and the bare trees
night advanced I placed a variety of combustibles around the cottage,
night, which I spent, cold and wet, in the open air.  But I did not
night.  I was a poor, helpless, miserable wretch; I knew, and could
nightingale. It was a lovely sight, even to me, poor wretch who had
nights to the study of mathematics, the theory of medicine, and those
no avail when I visited the professors.  M. Waldman inflicted torture
no means assured me that he was acquainted with its contents, and I
no respite; no incident occurred from which my rage and misery could
no terms with my enemies.  I am miserable, and they shall share my
noble a creature destroyed by misery without feeling the most poignant
noblest endowments of humanity.  I first became acquainted with him on
none but happy, kind faces around me.  Since you left us, but one
nonsense?"
nor the code of governments, nor the politics of various states
northern pole.
not equal mine; she was sustained by innocence, but the fangs of
not extinguish the spark of existence which you had so wantonly
not extract its food; but a circumstance that happened when I arrived
not heed the bleakness of the weather; I was better fitted by my
not laugh in that manner.  How ill you are!  What is the cause of all
not only you and your family, but thousands of others, shall be
not rain, as I found it was called when the heavens poured forth its
not seen for so long a time.  I knew my silence disquieted them, and I
not tear my thoughts from my employment, loathsome in itself, but which
not that rude hand rent away some dear connection?  And why should I
notes.  This manuscript will doubtless afford you the greatest
nothing can alleviate; yet you presence will, I hope, revive our
notwithstanding every evidence, until I heard that you had yourself
now and then directed me, and I possessed a map of the country; but I
now at peace for ever.  She died on the first approach of cold weather,
now nearly elapsed since the night on which he first received life; and
now stood Montanvert was exactly opposite, at the distance of a league;
now, no longer restrained by the fear of discovery, I gave vent to my
number of half-clothed children gathered about it spoke of penury in
nurse than himself; and, firm in the hope he felt of my recovery, he
o'clock, and when one inquired where she had passed the night, she
object on whom I dared not even think?  "Compose yourself," said
obliged to pass the night at Secheron, a village at the distance of
obliged to pay three months' rent and to lose the produce of your
observed this also and contrived a fan of branches, which roused the
observed this; rage and hatred had at first deprived me of utterance,
observed, with pleasure, that he did not go to the forest that day, but
observing my friends.  When they had retired to rest, if there was any
obstructed her path to the milk-house, drew water from the well, and
obtain absolution; but now that falsehood lies heavier at my heart than
obtained my undivided attention.  Wealth was an inferior object, but
occasion to pass out; all the light I enjoyed came through the sty, and
occupation that I have not allowed myself sufficient rest, as you see;
occupation, whilst, still urged on by an eagerness which perpetually
occupation.  I read with ardour those works, so full of genius and
occupations more particularly than before.  Winter, spring, and summer
occupations of Agatha were finished, the Arabian sat at the feet of the
occupations, set down natural history and all its progeny as a deformed
occupied in arranging the cottage, the old man walked before the
occurred--an omen, as it were, of my future misery.  Elizabeth had
occurrences of the day.  What chiefly struck me was the gentle manners
occurrences.  You doubtless recollect these papers.  Here they are.
ocean, nor even here in Archangel, among merchants and seamen.  Yet
of De Lacey, when her attendant fell dangerously ill.  Safie nursed her
of a crime which none but the devil himself could have perpetrated.
of a cypress.  I was scarcely hid when a young girl came running
of a fair enemy, and the fire that consumes your own heart.  How
of a few jewels, to have murdered the son of her benefactor and friend,
of a little rest; you would greatly oblige me if you would allow me to
of activity and spirit.  He is desirous to be a true Swiss and to enter
of an excellent disposition and is remarkable in the ship for his
of becoming acquainted, if cowardice or carelessness did not restrain
of being debarred from a liberal education.  He said little, but when
of benevolence and sweetness that I never saw equalled.  But he is
of coarse bread, which I purloined, and a cup with which I could drink
of commerce.
of dress and some books.  I eagerly seized the prize and returned with
of frankness and good nature that banished every idea of pedantry.  In
of half-suppressed emotion, "Farewell, sweet lady, dearest Elizabeth,
of heaven, mimic the earthquake, and even mock the invisible world with
of her innocence as I had.  She had been out the whole of the night on
of his beloved Safie were misfortunes more bitter and irreparable.  The
of his companions he assumed a more cheerful air, and they sat down to
of horror, such as the deed which he had now done, nearly in the light
of human nature.  I had worked hard for nearly two years, for the sole
of my book and said, "Ah!  Cornelius Agrippa!  My dear Victor, do not
of my disturbed imagination, but the pertinacity with which I
of my nervous symptoms.  Henry saw this, and had removed all my
of my own vampire, my own spirit let loose from the grave, and forced
of my story, and you will easily perceive why I am reserved upon that
of my toils.  With an anxiety that almost amounted to agony, I
of my undertaking.
of nature; nor can I doubt but that my tale conveys in its series
of returning to my friends and my native town, when an incident
of scene and interest attendant on a tour through that land of wonders,
of snow, down which stones continually roll from above; one of them is
of sound sense and real information, combined, it is true, with a
of the American hemisphere and wept with Safie over the hapless fate of
of the Arabian, who exhibited towards him the simplest and tenderest
of the animal would elude all pursuit, even if I were so far credited
of the best of these I entered, but I had hardly placed my foot within
of the common pathways of men, even to the wild sea and unvisited
of the cottage and surrounded on the sides which were exposed by a pig
of the cottage was dark, and I heard no motion; I cannot describe the
of the court, which had that night been my asylum, and I issued into
of the demoniacal corpse to which I had so miserably given life.
of the dream vanished, and breathless horror and disgust filled my
of the earth was hard and chill, and bare, and I found no shelter.  Oh,
of the enticements of science.  In other studies you go as far as
of the grave or tortured the living animal to animate the lifeless
of the infidels.
of the lake and talked with ecstasy of our future prospects.  The first
of the mild voice of De Lacey, the gentle eyes of Agatha, and the
of the most distinguished discoverers.  He then took a cursory view of
of the night she spent here watching; towards morning she believed that
of the poor.  This, to my mother, was more than a duty; it was a
of the region towards which we are advancing, appear to dismay them. We
of the river, when suddenly her foot slipped, and she fell into the
of the rock, gazing on this wonderful and stupendous scene.  The sea,
of the same nature as man.  I was more agile than they and could
of the stairs, I darted up towards my own room.  My hand was already on
of the traveller with our telescopes until he was lost among the
of the trees bent their branches, now budding with the fresh spring.
of the words uttered by my protectors.
of the youthful lovers, while in his heart he had formed far other
of these people, and I longed to join them, but dared not.  I
of these terms.
of this imprudence were fatal to her preserver.  On the third day my
of those sorrows which are sent to wean us from the earth had visited
of unalterable evils, and I lived in daily fear lest the monster whom I
of which the old man took no notice, until she sobbed audibly; he then
of women did not desert her.  She joined the hands of Elizabeth and
of your work; this history was mingled with accounts of domestic
offices that I had seen done by Felix.  I afterwards found that these
often endeavoured to encourage his children, as sometimes I found that
often intercepted the light from my eyes.  I began also to observe,
often wandered wide from my path.  The agony of my feelings allowed me
often, like him, when I viewed the bliss of my protectors, the bitter
oh!  That I could, with the extinction of your miserable existence,
old man returned to the cottage, and the youth, with tools different
old man, and taking his guitar, played some airs so entrancingly
old man, leaning his head on his hands in a disconsolate attitude. The
older child, how all the life and cares of the mother were wrapped up
older than Manoir; but she is very much admired, and a favourite with
omitted.
on a common and read nothing but our Uncle Thomas' books of voyages. At
on before, were not to be found.  We accordingly rested on a seat until
on his countenance, but he endeavoured to welcome me cheerfully; and,
on me as a wretch doomed to ignominy and perdition.  What could I do?
on my devoted head.  Have I not suffered enough, that you seek to
on my voyage.  This letter will reach England by a merchantman now on
on the confines of Switzerland, when the sun had recovered its warmth
on the heart of Felix and endeavoured to secure him more entirely in
on the open sea."
once had a friend, the most noble of human creatures, and am entitled,
once or twice I heard them, on these occasions, utter the words `good
one circumstance weighs against me, but I have no power of explaining
one cow, which gave very little during the winter, when its masters
one of us.  You purpose to kill me.  How dare you sport thus with
one purpose.  So much has been done, exclaimed the soul of
one pursuit.  It was a most beautiful season; never did the fields
one so utterly inexperienced as I was.
one which could not fail to impress itself deeply on my mind, unfolding
one would believe it at first; and even now Elizabeth will not be
only guide.  I did not know the names of the towns that I was to pass
only instruction but consolation in the works of the orientalists.  I
only one of these advantages, but without either he was considered,
only one which man does not grudge.  These bleak skies I hail, for they
only school in which I had studied human nature, but this book
only to raise the spirits of others, but sometimes to sustain my own,
open, and I hastened to my father's house.  My first thought was to
open; it breathed hard, and a convulsive motion agitated its limbs.
opened the door in the morning, appeared greatly astonished on seeing a
operation of the fire.  The wet wood which I had placed near the heat
operation, and the nuts and roots much improved.
operations might be incessantly baffled, and at last my work be
operations.
opinion.  For the first time, also, I felt what the duties of a creator
opportunity afforded him for so doing; or, if I had, why should he have
opportunity of passing into some part of the Turkish dominions.
opportunity:  I may receive your letters on some occasions when I need
opposite mountain is a bare perpendicular rock.  From the side where I
opposite mountains, whose summits were hid in the uniform clouds, while
opposition to thee.  I am thy creature, and I will be even mild and
oppressed by a slow fever, and I became nervous to a most painful
or affectation, and then added that his lecture had removed my
or friend upon earth.  These amiable people to whom I go have never
or in enjoyment; I, like the arch-fiend, bore a hell within me, and
or in its highest sense, the physical secrets of the world.
or rather the vast river of ice, wound among its dependent mountains,
ordinary occupations; all pleasure seemed to her sacrilege toward the
origin; the whole detail of that series of disgusting circumstances
other and trample upon me alone, to whom thy justice, and even thy
other gift of fortune suffice to chase away the fiend that lurked in my
other sensations.  Now I could only answer my father with a look of
other trees.  The path, as you ascend higher, is intersected by ravines
other was deceived; but when at morning's dawn I descended to the
other.  I gradually saw plainly the clear stream that supplied me with
others have gone before you, and there is nothing more to know; but in
ought to have familiarized the old De Lacey to me, and by degrees to
ought to see a feeling and kind friend, they behold only a detestable
our Alpine summers--she found ample scope for admiration and delight.
our ages.  I need not say that we were strangers to any species of
our family, learned the duties of a servant, a condition which, in our
our house; and so soon as the dazzling light vanished, the oak had
our inquiries.  I revolved these circumstances in my mind and
our joys and griefs; and how shall I inflict pain on my long absent
our race.  As I spoke, a dark gloom spread over my listener's
our walk farther than usual.  It was already dusk before we thought of
out her hand to Felix, who kissed it rapturously and called her, as
over me and troubled me, but hardly had I felt this when, by opening my
over me from the moment I turned my reluctant steps from my father's
over my head.  It was echoed from Saleve, the Juras, and the Alps of
over the mantel-piece.  It was an historical subject, painted at my
overcome by pain and anguish, I quitted the cottage, and in the general
overhanging sides of Mont Saleve?  These reflections determined me, and
overhangs it.  Soon after, I entered the valley of Chamounix.  This
overlook the deformity of my figure, for with this also the contrast
owe their being to me.  No father could claim the gratitude of his
owed to yourself, for excessive sorrow prevents improvement or
own reflections, to admire and love the heroes of past ages.  Many
own spirits were high, and I bounded along with feelings of unbridled
own, to approve or amend my plans.  How would such a friend repair the
pain of a wound which shattered the flesh and bone.  The feelings of
pain, I vowed eternal hatred and vengeance to all mankind.  But the
painful labour, to arrive at once at the summit of my desires was the
panes, and my candle was nearly burnt out, when, by the glimmer of the
parents ever since and even long before his birth.  It may therefore be
parents were possessed by the very spirit of kindness and indulgence.
paroxysm of grief that had seized the stranger overcame his weakened
part, I do not hesitate to say that, notwithstanding all the evidence
partiality.  She was a Roman Catholic; and I believe her confessor
particularly agreeable to me.  The shutting of the gates regularly at
particularly dangerous, as the slightest sound, such as even speaking
party.
passed away during my labours; but I did not watch the blossom or the
passed in this manner, during which I paid no visit to Geneva, but was
passed through scenes familiar to my youth, but which I had not seen
passion which afterwards ruled my destiny I find it arise, like a
passion; and quelling the dark tyranny of despair, he led me again to
passionate enthusiasm for, the dangerous mysteries of ocean to that
patriarchal lives of my protectors caused these impressions to take a
pause before the peace of the grave have succeeded to your sad
paused in his music, and I conjectured by his manner that he inquired
peace?"
peaceful dreams.  The horrible scene of the preceding day was forever
peaceful mind and never to allow passion or a transitory desire to
peaks shone in the sunlight over the clouds.  My heart, which was
peasant woman, perceiving that my mother fixed eyes of wonder and
peasants were dancing, and every one we met appeared gay and happy.  My
pedestrian tour in the environs of Ingolstadt, that I might bid a
penetrate; the ground was dry; and it presented to me then as exquisite
people; but you are too considerate to make inquiries."
perceive objects in their right forms; I distinguished the insect from
perceived by a market-woman not far from the spot where the body of the
perceived that I had acquired a dislike for the room which had
perceived that the fallen leaves had disappeared and that the young
perceived to be blind, employed his leisure hours on his instrument or
perceived, as the shape came nearer (sight tremendous and abhorred!)
perfect creature, happy and prosperous, guarded by the especial care of
perfectly dry, and by its vicinity to the chimney of the cottage it was
perform it myself!  I figure to myself that the task of attending on
performed towards him every little office of affection and duty with
performs an act of kindness towards him or does him any the most trifling
perished on the scaffold as a murderess!
perpetual splendour.  There--for with your leave, my sister, I will put
perpetually presented to my eyes had made me acquainted.
persevering, and prudent.
person had become emaciated with confinement.  Sometimes, on the very
personal farewell to the country I had so long inhabited.  I acceded
persuade my mother to refrain from attending upon her.  She had at
persuade ourselves to say the word "Farewell!"  It was said, and we
phenomena of the heavenly bodies undoubtedly are in those undiscovered
philosopher's stone and the elixir of life; but the latter soon
philosophy in its general relations, and that M. Waldman, a fellow
philosophy was with us, and excited by this catastrophe, he entered on
philosophy.  It was very different when the masters of the science
phraseology and manners, so that even now she often reminds me of her.
picture of an omnipotent God warring with his creatures was capable of
picture was then produced which the servant had found in her pocket;
picture.  Continue for the present to write to me by every
picturesque as that of Servox, through which I had just passed.  The
pierced it, and to die, was but a type of me.
pilgrimage to the highest peak of the Andes, could I when there have
place in science and mechanics, I was encouraged to hope my present
place since I awoke into life.  My attention at this time was solely
place since you left us.  The blue lake and snow-clad mountains--they
place the night before, and the fields were of one uniform white; the
place; I jumped over the chairs, clapped my hands, and laughed aloud.
placed at the windows of some of the cottages, allured my appetite. One
placed before my hovel to conceal my retreat.  The fresh air revived
placed in my pocket.  But here also I am checked.  I believe that I
placed in water, and then upon the fire.  She afterwards continued her
placed with these good people to nurse:  they were better off then.
placid.  Is this to prognosticate peace, or to mock at my unhappiness?"
plan to the former, who aided the deceit by quitting his house, under
plans.  He loathed the idea that his daughter should be united to a
pleased and went into the garden for some roots and plants, which she
pleased with yourself you will think of us with affection, and we shall
pleasure I experienced in watching my human neighbours.  In the evening
pleasure and was about to remove a plank to procure myself a little
pleasure.
pleasure.  I started up and beheld a radiant form rise from among the
pleasure; but to me, who know him, and who hear it from his own
plentiful supply of fire.  When night came on and brought sleep with
plot of Felix was quickly discovered, and De Lacey and Agatha were
poems, or drew me out into arguments, which he supported with great
point them towards the object of my search than to exhibit that object
poor William."
possessed a delightful house (for such it was in my eyes) and every
possessed a mind of an uncommon mould, and her courage rose to support
possessed attractions for me.  It was the secrets of heaven and earth
possessed no money, no friends, no kind of property.  I was, besides,
possessed of dauntless courage.
possessed of every enjoyment which virtue, refinement of intellect, or
possessed was the hope to which I had dedicated myself; and the moon
possessions most esteemed by your fellow creatures were high and
postponed this attempt for some months longer, for the importance
pour a torrent of light into our dark world.  A new species would bless
poverty, of rank, descent, and noble blood.
power of judgment, a penetration into the causes of things, unequalled
powers of application.  He looks upon study as an odious fetter; his
powers, and many hours of repose and tranquil conversation were
precautions that my mind should be impressed with no supernatural
precepts, at least by my example, how dangerous is the acquirement of
precious to me, yet I remained irresolute in what manner to commence
precipitated him to their base.  I wished to see him again, that I
prejudices against modern chemists; I expressed myself in measured
prepare a frame for the reception of it, with all its intricacies of
presence of Safie diffused happiness among its inhabitants, and I also
presence-chamber of imperial nature was broken only by the brawling
present day.  The stranger has gradually improved in health but is very
present existing in the world; it gave me an insight into the manners,
presented Elizabeth to me as her promised gift, I, with childish
preserve you; may this be the last misfortune that you will ever
pretend that my protestations should acquit me; I rest my innocence on
pretend to enter into the merits of the case, yet I inclined towards
pretended friends, I wish to be allowed to speak, that I may say what I
prevail in the great monarchies that surround it.  Hence there is less
prevented his encountering the inconveniences and perhaps dangers of so
prevents the blood from actually freezing in your veins.  I have no
previous to it he quitted his prison and before morning was distant
previously been my laboratory.  But these cares of Clerval were made of
price to pay for the acquirement of the knowledge which I sought, for
pride and my delight.  On the evening previous to her being brought to
principle and at another as all that can be conceived of noble and
print of the murder's finger was on his neck.
prize-money to purchase stock, and then himself solicited the young
proceed?  It was a bold question, and one which has ever been
procure.
produced against her, I believe and rely on her perfect innocence.  She
production of the most imaginative of modern poets.  There is something
professional prejudices, unsoftened by cultivation, retains some of the
professor, would lecture upon chemistry the alternate days that he
progress of my intellect, I must not omit a circumstance which occurred
progressively led to it were obliterated, and I beheld only the
promise very little; they know that metals cannot be transmuted and
promised myself both of these when my creation should be complete.
pronounced a few sounds, and the fair creature, leaving her work,
pronouncing, in a sweet accent, the name of Felix.  Her voice was
pronunciation was quick, and the words they uttered, not having any
property, which had not yet arrived at Leghorn.
proportion, and her complexion wondrously fair, each cheek tinged with
protect me!  You and your family are the friends whom I seek.  Do not
protectors.  I revolved many projects, but that on which I finally
proud and unbending disposition and could not bear to live in poverty
provoke the laughter of those unacquainted with the ever-varied powers
purpose of infusing life into an inanimate body.  For this I had
pursue its own course and gave way to my own miserable reflections.  I
pursued.  Soon after, when he was alone with me, he said, "I have,
pursuit had cramped and narrowed me, until your gentleness and
question again recurred, to be answered only with groans.
question, but I was known, and the officer guessed the cause of my
questioned by the market-woman was not surprising, since she had passed
questions concerning the route which the demon, as he called him, had
quick pace, and we soon arrived at my college.  I then reflected, and
quickly over the snow in their sledges; the motion is pleasant, and, in
quite bare, and making a wretched appearance after the palaces I had
quitted the cottage that morning, and waited anxiously to discover from
rain and snow poured around me; mighty rivers were frozen; the surface
rain poured from the dark sky and added to the melancholy impression I
raise me from the dust by this kindness; and I trust that, by your aid,
rambles were an extreme pleasure to me, although they were considerably
rapid stream.  I rushed from my hiding-place and with extreme labour,
rate I had no means of extracting it.  My sufferings were augmented
rather have been for ever ignorant than have discovered so much
rather his sister, for I was educated by and have lived with his
rather, to word my phrase more characteristically, of advancement in
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
real knowledge.  In this mood of mind I betook myself to the
reality, so distant as we had supposed.  Shut in, however, by ice, it
really express pain?  I was at first unable to solve these questions,
reason than to the imagination; but now misery has come home, and men
reason which I could not learn, he became obnoxious to the government.
reason with me any more.  Take possession of your tenement and let me
recapitulation of the history of chemistry and the various improvements
received a letter from you in your own handwriting.  They hardly know
received from the objects around me.  Alas!  Why does man boast of
receptacle of bodies deprived of life, which, from being the seat of
recognized, reminded me of days gone by, and were associated with the
recollect you once remarked that if you were in an ill humour, one
recollection of the past.  There was always scope for fear so long as
record have been, appeared the lowest degradation, a condition more
recording it, although it is very probable that you will see me before
recover my senses for a long, long time.
recovered from his illness and is continually on the deck, apparently
recovered herself, and a look of sorrowful affection seemed to attest
recovered his spirits, and is reported to be on the point of marrying a
refined by books and retirement from the world, and you are therefore
reflected in water or my shadow in the moonshine, even as that frail
reflection, and at length it took so fast hold of his mind that at the
reflections as I commenced my journey; but as I proceeded, my spirits
reflections, I thought that if I could bestow animation upon lifeless
refrain from relating them.  One of his most intimate friends was a
regard to my favourite studies.  My father was not scientific, and I
regarding me are my first recollections.  I was their plaything and
region of beauty and delight.  There, Margaret, the sun is forever
regions I am about to explore. But to return to dearer considerations.
regulate a thousand celestial observations that require only this
regulated by the same immutable laws.  My trifling occupations take up
related during the day.  If I should be engaged, I will at least make
relates soon changed this feeling into enthusiasm.  A new light seemed
relation.  Two years after this event Caroline became his wife.
relations of things.  The busy stage of life, the virtues of heroes, and
relieve your wants; but, unfortunately, my children are from home, and
remain a few minutes before the fire.'
remain in the habitation I had found.  It was situated against the back
remain in the society of men.  But she was innocent.  I know, I feel
remain quietly in my hovel, watching and endeavouring to discover the
remained for several years their only child.  Much as they were
remaining in a country where women were allowed to take a rank in
remembered also the nervous fever with which I had been seized just at
remembered too well the treatment I had suffered the night before from
remnants of the shepherd's breakfast, which consisted of bread, cheese,
remorse had not mingled its bitterness, and terror its alarm, with my
remorse tore my bosom and would not forgo their hold.
rendered it almost too horrible for human eyes.  But I scarcely
renew her entreaties that I would write often and to bestow the last
renew life where death had apparently devoted the body to corruption.
renewed violence, charging her with the blackest ingratitude.  She
repaid my labours.  Their melancholy is soothing, and their joy
repeated after them, that she was endeavouring to learn their language;
repentance.  She sometimes begged Justine to forgive her unkindness,
repentant mother.  Poor girl!  She wept when she quitted our house; she
replied that she had been looking for the child and demanded earnestly
replied the stranger; "we are unfashioned creatures, but half made up,
replied, however, that we were on a voyage of discovery towards the
repose in peace.  I understand your feeling," continued he, perceiving
repressed her bitter tears.  She embraced Elizabeth and said in a voice
repulsive countenance; the teacher, therefore, did not prepossess me in
repulsive physiognomy and manners, but not on that account the less
requisite; or by ascertaining the secret of the magnet, which, if at
resembling me or who claimed any intercourse with me.  What was I?  The
residence at Ingolstadt, which were chiefly spent in becoming
residence there being no longer conducive to my improvements, I thought
resign myself cheerfully to death and will indulge a hope of meeting
resolution is firm; but my hopes fluctuate, and my spirits are often
resolution.  I had hitherto supposed him to be the murderer of my
resolved to fly far from the scene of my misfortunes; but to me, hated
resolved upon could arrive, the first misfortune of my life
respected by his superiors and beloved by his equals.  His son was bred
rest and learn to think ourselves fortunate whilst one remains whom the
rest of mankind.  If you will comply with my conditions, I will leave
rest only that I need.'
restore those victims whom you have so diabolically murdered!"
restored him to animation by rubbing him with brandy and forcing him to
restrained but firm resolve not to be chained to the miserable details
restrained my uncle from undertaking a journey to Ingolstadt.  I have
result.  What had been the study and desire of the wisest men since the
retired for the night, I took the boat and passed many hours upon the
retired to his cabin.
retired under the pretence of seeking repose, each fancying that the
retired, for I saw the figure of a man at a distance, and I remembered
return to the cottagers, whose story excited in me such various
returned by the most southern cape of Africa or America?  I dare not
returned not at all the more inclined to recur to these studies in any
returned to my old habits.  I collected bones from charnel-houses and
returned to the house.  He was not there.  We returned again, with
returned until he heard that his former mistress was married according
returning to Asia and being immured within the walls of a harem,
returning; and then we discovered that William and Ernest, who had gone
returns upon me as I conclude.  Write, dearest Victor,--one line--one
revenge, such as would alone compensate for the outrages and anguish I
revolved in my mind the events which I had until now sought to forget:
ribbons of wood.  I never beheld anything so utterly destroyed.
rivers which ran through it and curling in thick wreaths around the
rock.  The air was cold, and the rain again began to descend; we
room in the extremest agitation.  Tears also gushed from the eyes of
roots which I gathered from a neighbouring wood.
rushed downstairs.  I took refuge in the courtyard belonging to the
rushed out of the room and continued a long time traversing my
rustic, and her cheek pale; but there was an air of dignity and beauty,
sacrifice of the dignity of a human being.
sacrilege, is not banished.  My mother was dead, but we had still
sadness, in the minds and countenances of the hearers.  This was indeed
safety of others is committed to my care.
sailors as I think necessary among those who are accustomed to the
salubrious air I breathed, the natural incidents of our progress, and
same feelings which made me neglect the scenes around me caused me also
same instructions to the same end.  The stranger learned about twenty
sang to him the divine airs of her native country.
sank to the ground through languor and extreme weakness.  Mingled with
sat in the sledge and guided the dogs.  We watched the rapid progress
saved but a very small sum of money from the wreck of his fortunes, but
saw how the worm inherited the wonders of the eye and brain.  I paused,
saw some dogs drawing a sledge, with a man in it, across the ice."
scaffold for the same crimes, I would not change places with such a
scattered around; and the solemn silence of this glorious
scene, it all opened upon me at once:  the information I had obtained
scene.  I looked on the valley beneath; vast mists were rising from the
scenes of evil and despair.  I considered the being whom I had cast
scent and the eyes, stars of pale radiance among the moonlight woods;
science not to derange their mechanism.  He also gave me the list of
science of the university, and I found even in M. Krempe a great deal
science of words or letters.
science.  With a confusion of ideas only to be accounted for by my
scope for his spirit of enterprise.  The Persian, Arabic, and Sanskrit
search of food.
searching in vain for a few acorns to assuage the pangs of hunger. When
seated.  A tear seemed to dim her eye when she saw us, but she quickly
secretly to take his daughter with him when he departed.  His plans
secrets of nature.  In spite of the intense labour and wonderful
secure it.  I was easily led by the sympathy which he evinced to use
secured by night from the view of man.  One morning, however, finding
see a letter that has been lying here some days for you; it is from
see every one else prejudiced in so deadly a manner rendered me
see my native land, perhaps, for many years.  I am, however, in good
see the corpse.  At first I attempted to prevent her but she persisted,
seeing me, he darted towards me, and tearing the girl from my arms,
seemingly incommoded by the burden, a young man met her, whose
seemingly ineffectual light.
seen him bright and joyous in his young beauty, but must weep over his
seen me and know little of me.  I am full of fears, for if I fail
seizing the hand of the old man, I cried, `Now is the time!  Save and
self.  Besides, in drawing the picture of my early days, I also record
sensations had by this time become distinct, and my mind received every
sensations of others, declined the subject, alleging, in excuse, his
sensations.  It was during an access of this kind that I suddenly left
senses were gratified and refreshed by a thousand scents of delight and
sensibilities superior to those apparent in the brute; it only renders
sensibly in this science, but not sufficiently to follow up any kind of
sentences out of a pulpit, I recollected what he had said of M.
separated Felix kissed the hand of the stranger and said, `Good night
seriousness, interpreted her words literally and looked upon Elizabeth
servant, to follow at her leisure with the greater part of his
service, his whole countenance is lighted up, as it were, with a beam
services.  I heard of him first in rather a romantic manner, from a
several hours of the night in a barn belonging to a cottage, being
several months.  During all that time Henry was my only nurse.  I
several nights."
several professors of the university.  In doing this, I underwent a
several revolutions of the moon in my hovel, I discovered the names
shake off all thought and feeling, but I learned that there was but one
shall commit my thoughts to paper, it is true; but that is a poor
shall satiate my ardent curiosity with the sight of a part of the world
shape.  M. Krempe was a little squat man with a gruff voice and a
she floated.  Our situation was somewhat dangerous, especially as we
she saw who it was, she approached me and said, "Dear sir, you are very
she slept for a few minutes; some steps disturbed her, and she awoke.
she was innocent; you are of the same opinion, and that confirms me.
she would have been the most depraved of human creatures.  For the sake
shelter; at length I perceived a small hut, on a rising ground, which
sheltered by the gardener, from every rougher wind and to surround her
shining pyramids and domes towered above all, as belonging to another
shone brightly on the white ground, I determined to recommence my
short and gazing full in my face, "I did not before remark how very ill
shortened by the late setting and early rising of the sun, for I never
should I have any fresh incidents to record.
should be completed.
should be conveyed to a place of safety.  Felix was too delicate to
should be united to his deliverer; and Felix remained with them in
should be wretched.  Yet why were these gentle beings unhappy?  They
should become a student at the university of Ingolstadt.  I had
should escape.  But she has confessed."
should have been the first to hide my grief and console my friends if
should now bloom with the most beautiful flowers and verdure.  My
should pay to innocence so blasted and destroyed.  She was no longer
sides of Jura, and the bright summit of Mont Blanc.  I wept like a
sight of her, and in about a quarter of an hour she returned bearing
signal crime, which by its enormity should almost efface the
signs which appeared to me to mean that he had been sorrowful until she
silence again.
silent and appears uneasy when anyone except myself enters his cabin.
since the departure of Clerval from Geneva.  But he has already
sincere.  I am poor and an exile, but it will afford me true pleasure
sir, you must begin your studies entirely anew."
sister will never recover from their horror.  I entreat you not to
sister, Manon, married M. Duvillard, the rich banker, last autumn. Your
sister, how could she put on those smiles of innocence only to betray?
sister, since till death she was to be mine only.
situation.  We perceived a low carriage, fixed on a sledge and drawn by
situations with honour and reputation.  He was respected by all who
slaked my thirst at the brook, and then lying down, was overcome by
slave by the Turks; recommended by her beauty, she had won the heart of
sledge which had before appeared; but I have persuaded him to remain in
sleep came.  I awoke, and my yesternight's thoughts were as a dream.
sleep.
sleep; but the fever of my blood did not allow me to be visited by
sleepless and aching eyes the church of Ingolstadt, its white steeple
slowly in large drops, but its violence quickly increased.
smiles of consolation.  But it was all a dream; no Eve soothed my
smiles, two little dimples appear on each cheek, which are rosy with
snow!  Yet a second step is taken towards my enterprise.  I have hired
so astonishing a secret.
so attractive and amiable.  I said in one of my letters, my dear
so dear to my recollection.  I grasped his hand, and in a moment forgot
so guided by a silken cord that all seemed but one train of enjoyment
so little worthy of the affection that united them.  He lost no time in
so negligently bestowed."
so; but then he is wholly uneducated:  he is as silent as a Turk, and a
society was enchanting to her.
solely wrapped up in this, improved so rapidly that at the end of two
solitary grandeur of the scene.
solitude was my only consolation--deep, dark, deathlike solitude.
solitude.  But now, as soon as the horses arrived, I hurried into a
solitudes.  What may not be expected in a country of eternal light?  I
solve them.
some fatality the overthrow of these men disinclined me to pursue my
some feelings, unallied to the dross of human nature, beat even in
some of the offals that the travellers had left had been roasted, and
some other topic than that of our disaster, had not Ernest exclaimed,
some trust in preceding navigators--there snow and frost are banished;
some undiscovered island, but a European.  When I appeared on deck the
some weeks.  It appeared to me sacrilege so soon to leave the repose,
someone in sport.  She continued her course along the precipitous sides
something should occur which might alter my determination.  It was
sometimes the whirlwind passions of my soul drove me to seek, by bodily
sometimes, after rowing into the middle of the lake, I left the boat to
somewhat fastidious; but this only renders you the more fit to
son?  I wish to prepare you for the woeful news, but I know it is
soon gave place to delight and rapture.  After so much time spent in
sooner did that idea cross my imagination, than I became convinced of
sooner than I expected.  I shall do nothing rashly:  you know me
sorrow vanished from his face, and it instantly expressed a degree of
sorrows nor shared my thoughts; I was alone.  I remembered Adam's
sorry chemist if he attended to that department of human knowledge
sought immortality and power; such views, although futile, were grand;
soul and allowed it to soar from the obscure world to light and joy.
soul and to say, with all the fervour that warmed me, how gladly I
soul, and the despair that is exhibited on the countenance.  It is so
sounded, and soon my mind was filled with one thought, one conception,
southwesterly direction to reach my destination, but the sun was my
spark of being into the lifeless thing that lay at my feet.  It was
sparrow uttered none but harsh notes, whilst those of the blackbird and
spent it in repairing the cottage and cultivating the garden.
spent more time in amusement and conversation, and were assisted in
spent under your gentle and feminine fosterage, has so refined the
spirit of life animated the decaying frame of the stranger.  He
spirit,' `wonderful'; but I did not then understand the signification
spirits that burst all bounds of reason and reflection.  I lighted the
spirits:  my men are bold and apparently firm of purpose, nor do the
spoiler has not seized.
spurned and deserted me, anger returned, a rage of anger, and unable to
stared.  "Have you," he said, "really spent your time in studying such
state those facts which led to my predilection for that science.  When
station among other human beings.  Now my desires were complied with,
stature, also, as he approached, seemed to exceed that of man.  I was
steps of knowledge along the paths of time and exchanged the
still proceed over the untamed yet obedient element?  What can stop the
still remained to me.  I gazed on the picture of my mother, which stood
stolen the jewel, to part with it again so soon?
stood fixed, gazing intently:  I could not be mistaken.  A flash of
story, so many opinions are canvassed and so many lights thrown upon
story.  Some years ago he loved a young Russian lady of moderate
strain, perhaps, I have given an account of the conclusions I had come
strange a vehicle.
stranger knelt at the old man's feet and would have kissed his hand,
stranger, I suppose you are my countryman; are you French?'
strength; I sank on the chair and sobbed aloud.  At that moment I heard
strongly.  Perhaps during former years he had suffered from the
struck me, to my own.  Like Adam, I was apparently united by no link to
struggled furiously and fell down in a fit.
studies.  It was thus that I was to be taught to associate evil with
study is certainly unlawful, that is to say, not befitting the human
sty and a clear pool of water.  One part was open, and by that I had
subject.  I will not lead you on, unguarded and ardent as I then was,
subject; but not guessing the real cause, he attributed my feelings to
subsist upon coarser diet; I bore the extremes of heat and cold with
succeeded to the tumult I had before endured, and I threw myself on the
success and into every minute detail of the measures I had taken to
success, there will be none to participate my joy; if I am assailed by
such as even Dante could not have conceived.
such as no language can describe.
such circumstances I should certainly have thrown Agrippa aside and
suffer also?  No one could love a child more than I loved your
suffer!  Live, and be happy, and make others so."
suffered that evil in a very distressing degree.  Their nourishment
suffered the pangs of hunger very poignantly, especially the two
suffering, "M. Frankenstein is modest; an excellent quality in a young
suffering.  I never saw a man in so wretched a condition.  We attempted
sufficient to answer him, but the effort destroyed all my remaining
sufficient; I must also observe the natural decay and corruption of the
sufficiently to confide in my prudence and considerateness whenever the
sum of money, she quitted Italy with an attendant, a native of Leghorn,
summer, and although not so warm as in England, the southern gales,
superior accomplishments of my friends.  The old man, I could perceive,
supernatural force tore me from his father, to whose knees I clung, in
superstition or to have feared the apparition of a spirit.  Darkness
supple; and although my voice was very unlike the soft music of their
suppliant, and on being informed of the name of her lover, instantly
supplication to his Creator.  But where was mine?  He had abandoned me,
support life.
supposed her guilty rendered them timorous and unwilling to come
supposed that my vessel would have been a resource which he would not
surprised to observe the despair that succeeded the joy I at first
surprised, I embraced her, but as I imprinted the first kiss on her
survivors."
sustained.  Ever since the fatal night, the end of my labours, and the
swallow a small quantity.  As soon as he showed signs of life we
swallowed up in the whirlwinds of its rage.  Let your compassion be
sweet Safie.'  He sat up much longer, conversing with his father, and
sweet accents, but unlike the wondrous strain of the stranger.  The old
sweet and mournful than I had ever heard him play before.  At first his
sweet lady, that you should believe your Justine, whom your blessed
sweet laughing blue eyes, dark eyelashes, and curling hair.  When he
sweetness; I see his thin hand raised in animation, while the
swelling as it proceeded, it became the torrent which, in its course,
sympathy was ours; her smile, her soft voice, the sweet glance of her
symptoms, and the looks of her medical attendants prognosticated the
table, and covered my face with my hands.
tale, and you will dash the cup from your lips!"
tale, and your looks remind me to proceed.  My father made no reproach
talent and fancy.  He loved enterprise, hardship, and even danger for
talking to someone in the sea.  It was, in fact, a sledge, like that we
taste, accompanied by a moderate fortune, could afford.
tasted much more savoury than the berries I gathered from the trees.  I
taught me high thoughts; he elevated me above the wretched sphere of my
tearing me from his father's feet.  I awoke exhausted, and finding that
tears somewhat soothed me.  But again when I reflected that they had
teeth, as if impatient of the weight of woes that oppresses him.
temper to avoid a crowd and to attach myself fervently to a few.  I was
tempest and calm, the silence of winter, and the life and turbulence of
ten o'clock and the impossibility of remaining on the lake after that
tender caresses and my father's smile of benevolent pleasure while
terms, with the modesty and deference due from a youth to his
terms.  After having made a few preparatory experiments, he concluded
terrible destruction.
than an artist occupied by his favourite employment.  Every night I was
than belongs to humanity, instantly informed me that it was the wretch,
than pictured cherub--a creature who seemed to shed radiance from her
than to him who had given me life?  Among the lessons that Felix had
thanked my friend from my heart, but I did not speak.  I saw plainly
thankfulness towards the blessed sun, which bestowed such joy upon me.
that I desired to learn; and whether it was the outward substance of
that I had taken among the scenes of my native country.
that I wished to interrupt him; "but you are mistaken, my friend, if
that Justine Moritz, who was so amiable, and fond of all the family,
that age I became acquainted with the celebrated poets of our own
that among so many men of genius who had directed their inquiries
that can befall a sensitive being; to be base and vicious, as many on
that each post would bring this line, and my persuasions have
that existed who would pity or assist me; and should I feel kindness
that far exceeded moderation; but now that I had finished, the beauty
that happy creature who in earlier youth wandered with me on the banks
that hardly permitted the sentiment of pity.  Below this picture was a
that has regulated my fate; I desire, therefore, in this narration, to
that he felt like a child picking up shells beside the great and
that he was surprised, but he never attempted to draw my secret from
that it was the wretch whom I had created.  I trembled with rage and
that joy had taken place of sadness in the countenances of my friends.
that knew no bounds, yet I could never persuade myself to confide in
that may direct you if you succeed in your undertaking and console you
that my path lay through a deep wood, I ventured to continue my journey
that occupied me, still my inquiries were directed to the metaphysical,
that seemed almost of the same colour as the dun-white sockets in which
that the elixir of life is a chimera but these philosophers, whose
that very moment the destroyer had been near to rob me of her.
that was coming towards me from the other end of the street.  As it
that was sufficient for me.
that were given to some of the most familiar objects of discourse; I
that would be a cruel kindness, and I dare not do it.  What would be
that year had withered before my work drew near to a close, and now
that you should be here at the very moment of my alighting!"
that, abandon or commiserate me, as you shall judge that I deserve.
the Arabian, who understood very little and conversed in broken
the Arve, which pursued its noisy way beneath.  The same lulling sounds
the Sorrows of Werter, besides the interest of its simple and affecting
the absence of the object of which I now feel as a most severe evil, I
the acquiring the art of language.  My organs were indeed harsh, but
the actions of men were his theme; and his hope and his dream was to
the affection of others to such a wretch as I am!  It removes more than
the air.  I felt emotions of gentleness and pleasure, that had long
the antelope.  But my heart sank within me as with bitter sickness, and
the arbiters of my future destiny.  I formed in my imagination a
the awful boundary between life and death, felt not, as I did, such
the barbarous villagers, and resolved, whatever course of conduct I
the blood circulates, and the nature of the air we breathe.  They have
the cabin, for he is far too weak to sustain the rawness of the
the cause of his son's sorrow.  Felix replied in a cheerful accent, and
the cloud, and I descended upon the glacier.  The surface is very
the conversation from a subject that was so annoying to me.
the conversation of my friend.  Study had before secluded me from the
the cottage of her lover."
the cottagers greatly endeared them to me; when they were unhappy, I
the cottagers, I abstained and satisfied myself with berries, nuts, and
the cottagers, I ought not to make the attempt until I had first become
the countenances of the judges had already condemned my unhappy victim,
the court.
the court; my lips and throat were parched.  I dared not ask the fatal
the dashing of the waterfalls around spoke of a power mighty as
the dead and found a passage to life, aided only by one glimmering and
the development of filial love.
the discovery of this element was useful to me in my food, for I found
the dispositions of these amiable cottagers.  In the midst of poverty
the diversity and contrast that subsisted in our characters drew us
the dominion I should acquire and transmit over the elemental foes of
the door before the children shrieked, and one of the women fainted.
the dress which I had taken from your laboratory.  At first I had
the eastern shore of the lake, at the distance of rather more than a
the edge of a precipice, towards which thousands are crowding and
the elements of which I had acquired at the cottage; they consisted of
the enjoyment of pleasure.
the escape of the merchant, the zeal of Felix was warmed by several
the evening of the night on which the murder had been committed at the
the explanation of a theory which he had formed on the subject of
the face of man; all sound of joy or complacency was torture to me;
the fate--enounced to destroy me.  As he went on I felt as if my soul
the father of Safie, who married her.  The young girl spoke in high and
the fellow!" cried he; "why, M. Clerval, I assure you he has outstript
the fierce vengeance of my arm wreaked on your miserable head?  Begone,
the filthy daemon, to whom I had given life.  What did he there?  Could
the fire; then she and the youth went apart into a nook of the cottage,
the first days; but when the lapse of time proves the reality of the
the foot of man. These are my enticements, and they are sufficient to
the giver of oblivion.
the grass, weighed down by horror and despair.
the greatest practical advantage.  Twice I actually hired myself as an
the green banks interspersed with innumerable flowers, sweet to the
the habitation, I quitted the scene and sought for refuge in the woods.
the hands of the lovely stranger, and pointing to her brother, made
the hearts of men, when unprejudiced by any obvious self-interest, are
the herb, and by degrees, one herb from another.  I found that the
the horrors of my secret toil as I dabbled among the unhallowed damps
the human frame and render man invulnerable to any but a violent
the immensity of the prospect which it illustrated, I was surprised
the inmate of my parents' house--my more than sister--the beautiful and
the interview, when the old man addressed me.  `By your language,
the lake in a boat to arrive at Plainpalais.  During this short voyage
the language of my heart, to give utterance to the burning ardour of my
the live embers.  I found that the berries were spoiled by this
the lock of the door before I recollected myself.  I then paused, and a
the memory of the antique glory of Italy--one among the schiavi ognor
the misery of innocence, which, like a cloud that passes over the fair
the morning, before she had risen, he cleared away the snow that
the morning.  So soon as he had finished, the youth began, not to play,
the most ardent terms for his intended services towards her parent, and
the mountain.  The sun is yet high in the heavens; before it descends
the mountains, so that I even saw not the faces of those mighty
the old man was recommencing his music when someone tapped at the door.
the only link that held me to the world.  For the first time the
the opinions of the hero, whose extinction I wept, without precisely
the pail, which was now partly filled with milk.  As she walked along,
the plan of life he had marked out for himself.  Resolved to pursue no
the power of rendering you happy?  Ah!  While we love, while we are
the present state of the science and explained many of its elementary
the pretence of a journey and concealed himself, with his daughter, in
the promised narrative, partly from curiosity and partly from a strong
the rain-dropping branches, and dank earth.  I ate my breakfast with
the ravine of Arve.  The immense mountains and precipices that overhung
the road; I heard the rumbling thunder of the falling avalanche and
the ruin.
the same studies.  Idleness had ever been irksome to me, and now that I
the schools of Geneva, I was, to a great degree, self-taught with
the sense of guilt, which hurried me away to a hell of intense tortures
the sick impotence of despair.  There was none among the myriads of men
the sight of your detested form."
the smile that plays upon the lips, although it may be deemed a
the sound of voices, that induced me to conceal myself under the shade
the sound of your lamentations shall again and again be heard!
the sounds for which they stood as signs?  I improved, however,
the sources of the Arveiron, which take their rise in a glacier, that
the steps of my younger protectors.  I had not a moment to lose, but
the streets, pacing them with quick steps, as if I sought to avoid the
the structure of the human frame, and, indeed, any animal endued with
the substance of them to you.
the summit, and disappeared.
the sun became warmer, the nights clear and balmy; and my nocturnal
the sweetest I had ever heard.  He began his lecture by a
the temper of her soul, now accustomed to grand ideas and a noble
the tenets of her religion and taught her to aspire to higher powers of
the thought made me shiver, that the creature whom I had left in my
the time that I dated my creation, and which would give an air of
the toils, destroying the objects that obstructed me and ranging
the traces of the winter avalanche may be perceived, where trees lie
the trembling sensation, half pleasurable and half fearful, with which
the two years that had elapsed previous to their marriage my father had
the uneasiness of this amiable family:  it was poverty, and they
the use of his own when I should have advanced far enough in the
the valley assumed a more magnificent and astonishing character.
the various branches, I discovered the cause and busied myself in
the which thou owest me.  Oh, Frankenstein, be not equitable to every
the whole train of my progress toward the creation; the appearance of
the will of heaven!"
the work of muscles and arteries beneath; his hair was of a lustrous
the work of my thrice-accursed hands!  Ye weep, unhappy ones, but these
the works of Cornelius Agrippa.  I opened it with apathy; the theory
the works of my own hands at my bedside; its departure.  Two years had
the world again through his credit and assistance. Beaufort had taken
the wretch whom with such infinite pains and care I had endeavoured to
the young girl and her companion were employed in various occupations
the young man again, with some tools in his hand, cross the field
thee a sight which you abhor.  Still thou canst listen to me and grant
their caprice, but the agents and creators of all the many delights
their cloudy retreats.  What were rain and storm to me?  My mule was
their disciple.  It may appear strange that such should arise in the
their hands.  These sublime and magnificent scenes afforded me the
their idol, and something better--their child, the innocent and
their joys, depending on each other, were not interrupted by the
their labours by servants.  They did not appear rich, but they were
their labours.  I found that the youth spent a great part of each day
their prosecution, happiness with their disregard.
their shrieks and misery.
their sockets in attending to the details of my employment.  The
their sweet looks directed towards me with affection was the utmost
their union they sought the pleasant climate of Italy, and the change
their village priest, and the result was that Elizabeth Lavenza became
their virtues and to deprecate the vices of mankind.
them adequate expressions, but words cannot convey an idea of the
them and you at peace; but if you refuse, I will glut the maw of death,
them from an evil which it only remains for you to make so great, that
them more necessary beings.  If our impulses were confined to hunger,
them most to support my spirits.  I love you very tenderly.  Remember
them.  I remained two days at Lausanne, in this painful state of mind.
themselves being witnesses and testimonies of my triumph.  Why not
then a resistless and almost frantic impulse urged me forward; I seemed
then hanging in the stars and ready to envelop me.  Her victory was
then hear all."
then was in height and proportion.  I had never yet seen a being
there is something in your words which persuades me that you are
there to subdue me to a semblance of her own gentleness.  And
there was no other prospect of support.  But Caroline Beaufort
there, I am an outcast in the world forever.'
therefore that you will take some days to consider of your
therefore, in the most cordial manner, and we walked towards my
therefore, in the most honourable manner, he retreated with his
therefore, to judge respecting friendship.  You have hope, and the
these also; but how was that possible when I did not even understand
these deserving people.  When I slept or was absent, the forms of the
these feelings in my answer.
these papers can come into your possession.
these people possessed a method of communicating their experience and
these preliminary circumstances; but they were days of comparative
these rugged bosoms.  My lieutenant, for instance, is a man of
these sensations, I allowed myself to be borne away by them, and
these the relative situations of the different countries of the earth.
they enjoyed one another's company and speech, interchanging each day
they had, all my past life was now a blot, a blind vacancy in which I
they should return.  Presently Ernest came, and enquired if we had seen
they spoke well of her; but fear and hatred of the crime of which they
they were set, his shrivelled complexion and straight black lips.
thing as a servant in France and England.  Justine, thus received in
things I read surpassed my understanding and experience.  I had a very
things or the inner spirit of nature and the mysterious soul of man
third.  This girl had always been the favourite of her father, but
thirst for a more intimate sympathy with a fellow mind than had ever
thirst for knowledge.  Under the guidance of my new preceptors I
thirst, and desire, we might be nearly free; but now we are moved by
thirst.  This roused me from my nearly dormant state, and I ate some
this circumstance seemed to unite them only closer in bonds of devoted
this difficulty, but I was obliged to relinquish all attempt to supply
this horror, I felt the bitterness of disappointment; dreams that had
this mean?  Who was I?  What was I?  Whence did I come?  What was my
this place I resolved to proceed.
this place is not fitting to your fine sensations; come to the hut upon
this work, he said, because the declamatory style was framed in
this wretched mockery of justice I suffered living torture.  It was to
this, and when Justine was twelve years of age, prevailed on her mother
this?"
those events which led, by insensible steps, to my after tale of
those large loose masses which float about after the breaking up of the
those simple pleasures in which no alloy can possibly mix, then that
thought I saw the dreaded spectre glide into the room; "HE can tell.
thought her the model of all excellence and endeavoured to imitate her
thought him as beautiful as the stranger.  She appeared affected by
thought more and that my daydreams are more extended and magnificent,
thought nor sense of joy except as it is mirrored also in your dear
thought of you crossed my mind.  I learned from your papers that you
thought would not fly towards those dear, dear friends whom I love and
thoughtfulness and sadness succeeded; at length, laying aside the
thoughtlessly bestowed.  When I reflected on his crimes and malice, my
thoughts were turned into the channel of their earlier bent.
thoughts, unchecked by reason, to ramble in the fields of Paradise, and
thousand pictures of presenting myself to them, and their reception of
thousands, for all the kindness which her beauty might otherwise have
through a strange perversity, her mother could not endure her, and
through means which I obtained by stealth, when I was unseen and
through the cottage, dispelling their sorrow as the sun dissipates the
through the seas which surround the pole.  You may remember that a
through the wood with a stag-like swiftness.  Oh!  What a miserable
through, nor could I ask information from a single human being; but I
thrown into prison.  The news reached Felix and roused him from his
thrush were sweet and enticing.
thus about an hour, the young woman joined him and they entered the
thus you will allow me to name you; nothing can alter my destiny;
thy funeral, this thy dirge!" As I said these words, I perceived in the
time Felix was more employed, and the heart-moving indications of
time I sat upon the rock that overlooks the sea of ice.  A mist covered
time before I learned to distinguish between the operations of my
time is spent in the open air, climbing the hills or rowing on the
time that she loved another, but that he was poor, and that her father
time!  One sudden and desolating change had taken place; but a thousand
time."
to allow her to live at our house.  The republican institutions of our
to attain, breathe a degree of renovating warmth which I had not
to attend their usual hour of rising.
to be in any way serviceable to a human creature.'
to be the world, than he who aspires to become greater than his nature
to carry him into the cabin, but as soon as he had quitted the fresh
to concerning them in my early years.  As a child I had not been
to consider whether I am just to you or not.  Begone!  Relieve me from
to dawn upon my mind, and bounding with joy, I communicated my
to destroy all that was dear to me.
to ecstasy, but more frequently sunk me into the lowest dejection.  In
to find my brother.  If she had gone near the spot where his body lay,
to fit myself for an interview with them which would decide my fate.  I
to forget those friends who were so many miles absent, and whom I had
to have lost all soul or sensation but for this one pursuit.  It was
to health, the sight of a chemical instrument would renew all the agony
to heaven, for nothing contributes so much to tranquillize the mind as
to her inclinations.  "What a noble fellow!" you will exclaim.  He is
to hide itself behind your snowy precipices and illuminate another
to his behaviour to her.  Everything was made to yield to her wishes
to it.  By some papers of her father which fell into her hands she
to me from a man on the brink of destruction and to whom I should have
to me, Frankenstein.  You accuse me of murder, and yet you would, with
to me.  I was now free.  Often, after the rest of the family had
to me. For a long time I was their only care.  My mother had much
to my ruin.  But the cursory glance my father had taken of my volume by
to prolong the deceit until it might be no longer necessary, and
to pursue him?  It is impossible; one might as well try to overtake the
to reflection on my situation.
to render her life happy; now all was to be obliterated in an
to reproduce it.  I gave several hours to the serious consideration of
to rest, I resolved to visit the spot where my poor William had been
to restore her gaiety.  The poor woman was very vacillating in her
to set a crown of distinction on her head.  Her brow was clear and
to the dreadful circumstance that I have related.  My wife and my
to the extreme fatigue both of body and of mind which I had endured.
to the house, which was situated in a mean street near the Reuss.  But
to the name of natural philosophy.  When I was otherwise quite restored
to the survivors that we should refrain from augmenting their
to the usual brutality exercised on board ship:  I have never believed
to them, but it would be unfair to her to keep her in poverty and want
to this study would have been irksome and almost intolerable.  To
to those countries, to reach which at present so many months are
to vice or faultiness on my part, but I am now convinced that he was
to whom thou art bound by ties only dissoluble by the annihilation of
to witness the cruel, miserable death of her youngest darling!
to your destruction and infallible misery.  Learn from me, if not by my
told the servants not to disturb the family, and went into the library
tolerably warm.
tones, yet I pronounced such words as I understood with tolerable ease.
too well my treatment the night before to trust myself in his power.  I
took his tools, the use of which I quickly discovered, and brought home
took something out of a drawer, which employed her hands, and she sat
torches; for I could not rest, when I thought that my sweet boy had
torments!
total ignorance; and the conversation took a more general turn.  I
touched which formed the mechanism of my being; chord after chord was
towards his creature were, and that I ought to render him happy before
towards my enemies?  No; from that moment I declared everlasting war
towards the cottagers.  Their happiness was not decreased by the
towards the same science, that I alone should be reserved to discover
towards the setting sun.  I passed three days in these rambles and at
towards the spot where I was concealed, laughing, as if she ran from
towards the valley of Chamounix.  I had visited it frequently during my
towards you I felt no sentiment but that of hatred.  Unfeeling,
train of my ideas would never have received the fatal impulse that led
train who shed their blood to redeem the holy sepulchre from the hands
trains of reflection.  I spoke of my desire of finding a friend, of my
travels; and, depositing the remains of the peasant's breakfast in a
traversed the streets without any clear conception of where I was or
treasures known to few besides myself.  I have described myself as
treating of natural philosophy which he desired me to procure, and
treatment I had formerly endured in the first village which I entered.
trees.  [The moon]  I gazed with a kind of wonder.  It moved slowly,
tremble.  Dear Victor, banish these dark passions.  Remember the
trembled violently, apprehending some dreadful misfortune.  The inside
trial took place, the result of which deprived them of their fortune and
trials were reserved for her.
tried to imitate the pleasant songs of the birds but was unable.
tried today, and I hope, I sincerely hope, that she will be acquitted."
tried, therefore, to dress my food in the same manner, placing it on
trouble you with any inquisitiveness of mine."
troubled; a mist came over my eyes, and I felt a faintness seize me,
true to each other, here in this land of peace and beauty, your native
true.  Some miracle might have produced it, yet the stages of the
tumult escaped unperceived to my hovel."
turns.  The vegetables in the gardens, the milk and cheese that I saw
tyrannical mandate.
ultimately succeed.  I prepared myself for a multitude of reverses; my
uncouth and inarticulate sounds which broke from me frightened me into
undeceiving them.  I am blind and cannot judge of your countenance, but
under-mate in a Greenland whaler, and acquitted myself to admiration. I
understand him, but smiled.  He assisted her to dismount, and
understand them, and bent every faculty towards that purpose, but found
understand what they said, as they spoke the language of the country,
understanding it.
undertake a voyage of discovery to the land of knowledge."
undertaking.  It is impossible to communicate to you a conception of
uneven, rising like the waves of a troubled sea, descending low, and
unexplored ocean of truth.  Those of his successors in each branch of
unfold to the world the deepest mysteries of creation.
unfortunate Muhammadan, who, loaded with chains, waited in despair the
unfortunate and deserted creature, I look around and I have no relation
unfortunate; I and my family have been condemned, although innocent;
unguarded part of the building, which lighted the dungeon of the
unhappiness by an appearance of immoderate grief?  It is also a duty
university.  When I had arrived at this point and had become as well
university; and if he is not soon pulled down, we shall all be out of
unknown, and which rather increased than satisfied the desire I had of
unlike to the beings concerning whom I read and to whose conversation I
unpractised senses, he appeared to have suffered more deeply than his
unqualified wonder.  We were, as we believed, many hundred miles from
unquiet thing that wandered restless in a scene so beautiful and
unremitting attentions of my friend could have restored me to life.
unstained snowy mountain-top, the glittering pinnacle, the pine woods,
unsullied descent united with riches.  A man might be respected with
until I almost began to think that I was the monster that he said I
until a few more months should have added to my sagacity.
until it be satiated with the blood of your remaining friends."
until night fell, when Elizabeth conjectured that he might have
until the great object, which swallowed up every habit of my nature,
untimely loss!  To die so miserably; to feel the murderer's grasp!  How
unwearied entreaties was the same as that of the Dutch schoolmaster in
unwholesome.  My spirits were elevated by the enchanting appearance of
unwilling to call up the inhabitants, to whom she was well known.  Most
unwilling to quit the sight of those that remained to me, and above
unwillingness to leave Clerval in a strange place, before he had become
up entirely their wandering life and fixed themselves in their native
upon Justine's innocence.  "Alas!" said she.  "How shall I ever again
upon it; and then, spreading my cloak, I lay on the ground and sank
upon me, notwithstanding my endeavours to throw them off, with an
upon me; I tried to dispel them, but sorrow only increased with
upon my own.  Our misfortune is doubly hard to us; we have not only
upon my pillow, sleep crept over me; I felt it as it came and blessed
upon the earth, from which all men fled and whom all men disowned?
us all.  Ay, stare if you please; but it is nevertheless true.  A
useful to you; yet, when I reflect that you are pursuing the same
utter and stupid despair.  My protectors had departed and had broken
uttering a groan that came from my inmost soul.  Justine started.  When
vagrants; this child was thin and very fair.  Her hair was the
vale attracted their notice as being singularly disconsolate, while the
valley is more wonderful and sublime, but not so beautiful and
valuable.  In M. Waldman I found a true friend.  His gentleness was
vanished, and I beheld the bare trees and the black earth.  From this
various arguments that he had used and determined at least to listen to
various diligences and carriages usually stopped.  Here I paused, I
various laborious occupations within.  The old man, whom I soon
various occupations, I slept; the remainder of the day was spent in
various senses.  By degrees, I remember, a stronger light pressed upon
veil, and I beheld a countenance of angelic beauty and expression.  Her
veil.  Agatha asked a question, to which the stranger only replied by
venerable blind father, the gentle Agatha, and the excellent Felix
ventured abroad during daylight, fearful of meeting with the same
very resemblance.  Satan had his companions, fellow devils, to admire
very wretched.  But since the murderer has been discovered--"
vice and bloodshed, my wonder ceased and I turned away with disgust and
vicious and base?  He appeared at one time a mere scion of the evil
victim and spared no pains to detect and punish his deliverer.  The
victim, and clasping her hands exclaimed, `O God!  I have murdered my
view.  I did not dare return to the apartment which I inhabited, but
vile insect!  Or rather, stay, that I may trample you to dust!  And,
vintage, but my eyes were insensible to the charms of nature.  And the
virtue, he gloried in it; but the ingratitude of the Turk and the loss
virtues and a desire to be the means of, in some degree, recompensing
visible, its broad disk just skirting the horizon and diffusing a
visions of extensive usefulness into gloomy and narrow reflections upon
visit to some of the principal professors.  Chance--or rather the evil
visit.  The ballots had been thrown; they were all black, and Justine
voice was suffocated with sobs.
voice whose varied intonations are soul-subduing music.
voice, and the youth joined her, who also expressed surprise.  I
voiceless grief of my Elizabeth.  This also was my doing!  And my
voyage to render their seeming eccentricities consistent forever.  I
voyage.
waited on and ministered to by the assemblance of grand shapes which I
waited with forced impatience until the moon had sunk to commence my
waiting for them on the other side; but nothing appeared.  I stepped
walk in Plainpalais.  The evening was warm and serene, and we prolonged
walking up and down in the greatest agitation, listening attentively,
wallet I found, I proceeded across the fields for several hours, until
wanderer?  You would not if you saw him.  You have been tutored and
wanderer?  Your summits are clear; the sky and lake are blue and
warmth I experienced from it.  In my joy I thrust my hand into the live
warmth, "every instant that you have wasted on those books is utterly
was a German and had died on giving her birth.  The infant had been
was a listener.  I sympathized with and partly understood them, but I
was a new sight to me, and I examined the structure with great
was abhorrent to her; her religion and her feelings were alike averse
was able to pronounce them.  I distinguished several other words
was absent when it was committed, and such a declaration would have
was an uncouth man, but deeply imbued in the secrets of his science. He
was condemned.
was deeply grieved by his retreat in these unfortunate circumstances.
was doubtless the temptation which urged the murderer to the deed.  We
was ever and anon rent and torn, as if it had been but a plaything in
was free last night!"
was full, and I did not answer him, but as I proceeded, I weighed the
was impossible to follow his track, which we had observed with the
was left to struggle with a child's blindness, added to a student's
was more entirely occupied in attending him; her means of subsistence
was much altered since the death of my aunt; grief had given softness
was necessary, I cleared their path from the snow and performed those
was not her child, but the daughter of a Milanese nobleman.  Her mother
was not so miserable as I am now."
was not the witness of his grief, for I was lifeless and did not
was now again determined upon.  I obtained from my father a respite of
was of a nature rather to direct my endeavours so soon as I should
was often tempted, when all was at peace around me, and I the only
was placed on the earth, which formed the floor, but it was dry; and
was rapid.  My ardour was indeed the astonishment of the students, and
was senseless, and I endeavoured by every means in my power to restore
was spoken.
was this his first crime?  Alas!  I had turned loose into the world a
was tranquil, yet her tranquillity was evidently constrained; and as
was undisturbed by thoughts which during the preceding year had pressed
was unformed in mind; I was dependent on none and related to none.
was very unlike his colleague.  He appeared about fifty years of age,
was.  He threatened excommunication and hell fire in my last moments if
waste his powers for the profits of the chosen few!  And what was I? Of
waste your time upon this; it is sad trash."
watching for the sledge that preceded his own.  Yet, although unhappy,
water when I heard a step, and looking through a small chink, I beheld
water.  Sometimes, with my sails set, I was carried by the wind; and
waters.  This frequently took place, but a high wind quickly dried the
waved their branches above me; now and then the sweet voice of a bird
wavering in my resolutions.  Those are as fixed as fate, and my voyage
waves or the fall of some vast fragment, the thunder sound of the
wearying me as I walked, I sought a place where I could receive shade.
week he intended to commence a course of lectures upon natural
weeks; and my intention is to hire a ship there, which can easily be
weight upon my spirit was sensibly lightened as I plunged yet deeper in
well as I could distinguish, his sweet Arabian.  She did not appear to
well as fast as you can; and since you appear in such good spirits, I
well remembered the words of my father:  "I know that while you are
well with my experience among my protectors and with the wants which
went apart and appeared to weep.  I saw no cause for their unhappiness,
were at first enigmatic.
were called forth and displayed.  But in giving an account of the
were compassed round by a very thick fog.  We accordingly lay to,
were facilitated by the news which arrived from Paris.
were forever alive in my own bosom.  But I thought Werter himself a
were grappling with a palpable enemy; one by one the various keys were
were my father, my creator; and to whom could I apply with more fitness
were often in the hands of Felix or Agatha.  Before I depart I will
were placed on the prospect of your union.  This expectation will now
were to be afterwards used in putting me to a slow and cruel death.  I
were, as I applied them, to pleasure and pain alone.  Induced by these
were, instinctively, finding myself so desolate.  Before I had quitted
were, to procrastinate all that related to my feelings of affection
whale-fishing.  I do not intend to sail until the month of June; and
what I am, I imagine that you may deduce an apt moral from my tale, one
what I was doing.  My heart palpitated in the sickness of fear, and I
what glory would attend the discovery if I could banish disease from
what had hitherto been to me obscure subjects that I found in it a
what occasion Justine Moritz entered our family?  Probably you do not;
whatsoever to interfere with the tranquillity of his domestic
when I first discovered that a pleasant sound, which often saluted my
when I should put them in practice and make myself useful to my fellow
when I thought of the heroic and suffering Elizabeth, whom I tenderly
when Providence afforded her such powerful protection.  They consulted
when he entered, misery and despair alone welcomed him.  Beaufort had
when he praised, with kindness and warmth, the astonishing progress I
when he speaks, although his words are culled with the choicest art,
when hungry; they were dressed in excellent clothes; and, still more,
when shall I return?  Ah, dear sister, how can I answer this question?
when she recalled the sunshine of her smiles and spent them upon us.
when the gates of Geneva were shut, and she was forced to remain
when theirs are failing.
when, although violently agitated, she desired permission to address
where I could conceal the horrid anguish that possessed me.  Despair!
where I was standing, and on the door being opened, I perceived Henry
where no one was kind enough to inform you that these fancies which you
whether I quit forever the neighbourhood of man and lead a harmless
which I am acquainted; that cannot be; listen patiently until the end
which I am advancing, gives me a foretaste of those icy climes.
which I covered myself, and sat down upon the ground.  No distinct
which I did not understand; and the old man again took up the
which I feared yet did not understand.  I admired virtue and good
which I had let loose upon the world?
which I perceived drew tears from the eyes of his amiable companion,
which I shudder to reflect, that I have been the miserable origin and
which M. Krempe had given me concerning the lectures.  And although I
which allowed me to look back upon the past with self-satisfaction, and
which are to convey to you the horrible tidings.
which blow us speedily towards those shores which I so ardently desire
which differed from that of my protectors.  Soon after, however, Felix
which he attempts to demonstrate and the wonderful facts which he
which he carried, at my body and fired.  I sank to the ground, and my
which he had designed to pass the remainder of his life; but he
which in a few months I resolved to undergo; and sometimes I allowed my
which otherwise he would command.
which produced it is set in view; the minutest description of my odious
which rendered it necessary that he should approve highly to love
which restored him wonderfully.
which she had at first intended.  This benefit was fully repaid;
which the murder had been committed and towards morning had been
which they had lived took care that Safie should arrive in safety at
which they were bound, and after her death the woman of the house in
which they were written, I began to study them with diligence.  It was
which was `father.' The girl was called `sister' or `Agatha,' and the
which was to fix the date of my departure, when Henry proposed a
which we enjoyed.  When I mingled with other families I distinctly
which, although they were done more tranquilly, might not be the less
which, an hour before the child had been missed, she had placed round
while the storm lasted, watching its progress with curiosity and
white flower that peeped out from beneath the snowy ground.  Early in
who are so deserving of my love?"
who could sympathize with me, whose eyes would reply to mine. You may
who owe me nothing?  They spurn and hate me.  The desert mountains and
who was probably the person from whom she had playfully fled.  On
who would spend each vital drop of blood for your sakes, who has no
who, a few years ago, loved and beloved by all, had no sorrow or care.
who, when he found the father inexorable, quitted his country, nor
whole of our good Uncle Thomas' library.  My education was neglected,
whom I sincerely love, and of whose favour I have some hopes.'
whom he and his family endured such unheard-of oppression, on
whose aerial summits hung over its recesses.  Their icy and glittering
whose effusions entranced my soul and lifted it to heaven.  I also
wild fancies of these writers with delight; they appeared to me
wildness, and even madness, but there are moments when, if anyone
will allow.
will appear possible in these wild and mysterious regions which would
will disclose a secret.  I have often attributed my attachment to, my
will go, although she is guilty; and you, Victor, shall accompany me; I
will induce poor Elizabeth to cease her vain and tormenting self-
will proclaim, I will prove your innocence.  I will melt the stony
will write instantly and relieve them from the anxiety they must feel."
willingly given it to her, so much do I esteem and value her."
windings, which enable you to surmount the perpendicularity of the
winds, or confine a mountain-stream with a straw.  I saw him too; he
winter has been dreadfully severe, but the spring promises well, and it
wish you had come three months ago, and then you would have found us
wished to fly from reflection, and hated my former studies, I felt
with Felix.  He was always the saddest of the group, and even to my
with a hasty step.  This noble war in the sky elevated my spirits; I
with a panegyric upon modern chemistry, the terms of which I shall
with a sly smile, how Cornelius Agrippa went on, whilst M. Waldman
with a stick.  I could have torn him limb from limb, as the lion rends
with all that could tend to excite pleasurable emotion in her soft and
with any degree of certainty, for the ice had not broken until near
with benevolence and love; the younger was slight and graceful in his
with despair that their little fund was rapidly decreasing and that
with greater accuracy, the forms that surrounded me and to perceive the
with hatred for your enemies.
with her foster parents and bloomed in their rude abode, fairer than a
with him.  For my own part, I begin to love him as a brother, and his
with love and humanity; but am I not alone, miserably alone?  You, my
with me on mine, which I have communicated to him without disguise.  He
with pleasure to this proposition:  I was fond of exercise, and Clerval
with slow pace is advancing down from the summit of the hills to
with stones and wood, yet in such a manner that I might move them on
with tears, which she endeavoured to wipe away unperceived; but I
with the Turk that if the latter should find a favourable opportunity
with the most anxious affection.  Poor Justine was very ill; but other
with the most devoted affection, but the poor girl died, and the
with their practical uses.  The most learned philosopher knew little
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net
with those friends whom I am on the point of meeting.'
with unremitting ardour.  My cheek had grown pale with study, and my
with which I shall prevent the slightest shadow of partiality."
withdrew from the window, unable to bear these emotions.
without being able as yet to understand or apply them, such as `good,'
witnessed a most violent and terrible thunderstorm.  It advanced from
woeful as the "Ancient Mariner."  You will smile at my allusion, but I
woman's father to consent to her marriage with her lover.  But the old
wonder, "but to us the discovery we have made completes our misery.  No
wonderful courage and enterprise; he is madly desirous of glory, or
wonderful fancy and passion.  At other times he repeated my favourite
wonders and in beauty every region hitherto discovered on the habitable
word will be a blessing to us.  Ten thousand thanks to Henry for his
words at the first lesson; most of them, indeed, were those which I had
words surprised Henry; he at first believed them to be the wanderings
words they spoke sometimes produced pleasure or pain, smiles or
work, whilst the young man went into the garden and appeared busily
worked harder than the common sailors during the day and devoted my
worked up her mind to an appearance of courage.  When she entered the
world before you, and have no cause for despair.  But I--I have lost
world, you will have heard my story and can decide.  On you it rests,
worship in his attachment to my mother, differing wholly from the
worst event.  On her deathbed the fortitude and benignity of this best
would become her to pursue in this emergency.  A residence in Turkey
would decide my hopes or realize my fears.  The servants were gone to a
would never consent to the union.  My generous friend reassured the
would sacrifice my fortune, my existence, my every hope, to the
would-be science which could never even step within the threshold of
wrapped him up in blankets and placed him near the chimney of the
wretch whom I feared every turning of the street would present to my
wretch."
wretched of human beings.  Alas!  I prophesied truly, and failed only
wretched; how, then, must I be hated, who am miserable beyond all
wretchedness of my desolated home; the reality came on me as a new, and
wretchedness.  My father loved Beaufort with the truest friendship and
wretchedness.  Yet it is in your power to recompense me, and deliver
wrinkled his cheeks.  He might have spoken, but I did not hear; one
writhed under his words, yet dared not exhibit the pain I felt.
wrongfully; every one knows that; no one believes it, surely, Ernest?"
years I made some discoveries in the improvement of some chemical
yet I was passionately fond of reading.  These volumes were my study
yet brought no wood with him.  At other times he worked in the garden,
yet she paid the greatest attention to every gesture of my aunt.  She
yet they flow with rapidity and unparalleled eloquence.  He is now much
you appear; so thin and pale; you look as if you had been watching for
you are getting better.  I eagerly hope that you will confirm this
you could see by her eyes that she almost adored her protectress.
you desert me in the hour of trial!'
you have the kindness to inform me whither you are bound?"
you in another world."
you so seldom.  By the by, I mean to lecture you a little upon their
you undeceive them?'
you, and save me, that I may again and again testify my gratitude for
you, write!
you; and, happy and beloved as I have been, is it not hard to quit you
you?  I feel the greatest remorse for the disappointment of which I
young girl was occupied in arranging the cottage; but presently she
younger cottagers exhibited towards their venerable companion.  They
younger cottagers, for several times they placed food before the old
youngster who, but a few years ago, believed in Cornelius Agrippa as
your apartment, on a sensation of cold, I had covered myself with some
your cottage.  The life of my father is in the greatest danger, owing
your cousin, I believe."
your creation, come on, then, that I may extinguish the spark which I
your journal of the four months that preceded my creation.  You
your own speedy ruin."
your poor cousin.  Yet that is over now:  Clerval writes that indeed
your return to us; and I was at first tempted to write only a few
your sickbed has devolved on some mercenary old nurse, who could never
your surprise, my son, when you expected a happy and glad welcome, to
yours, I will not rashly encounter danger.  I will be cool,
yourself, has been consumed in my sick room.  How shall I ever repay
youth `Felix,' `brother,' or `son.'  I cannot describe the delight I
youth could not help owning to his own mind that the captive possessed
zeal.  She devoted herself to those whom she had been taught to call
