









Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
[Exit.]
[Exit.]
[Exit.]
[Exeunt.]
[Exeunt.]
[Retires]
Exit Romeo.
They fight.
Exit CATESBY
Exit CATESBY
Exit CATESBY
[Exit Page.]
[Exit Peter.]
[They fight.]
He goeth down.
[They embrace]
Exit LORD MAYOR
Knock [within].
[Clock strikes]
Exit Servingman.
[They all start]
Exit [Balthasar].
[CLARENCE sleeps]
[Takes him aside]
Exit with the body
Lays down a dagger.
[Flourish. Alarums]
[Gives the warrant]
[Throws them down.]
[Exit a Servingman.]
[BRAKENBURY reads it]
[Nurse] calls within.
[She falls the sword]
[Sitting down by her]
[with his Followers].
Exeunt Lady and Nurse.
[Throws him his purse]
Exeunt all but RICHMOND
Exeunt Juliet and Nurse.
[He sheweth him a paper]
[He whispers in his ear]
Exeunt all but Buckingham
Exeunt all but GLOUCESTER
Exeunt all but GLOUCESTER
Exeunt all but GLOUCESTER
They fight. Tybalt falls.
Exeunt Mercutio, Benvolio.
Exeunt STANLEY and CATESBY
Exeunt [Mother and Nurse.]
[Descends from the throne]
Exeunt [Capulet and Paris].
Exeunt [Montague and Wife].
He walks by them and sings.
One calls within, 'Juliet.'
[Draws aside the curtains.]
Exeunt CARDINAL and HASTINGS
Music plays, and they dance.
Exit RATCLIFF. RICHARD sleeps
[She looks scornfully at him]
[They withdraw into the tent]
Exeunt some with KING and QUEEN
[Exit. [supported by Benvolio].
Exeunt GLOUCESTER and BUCKINGHAM
Enter Romeo.
Kissing her. Exit QUEEN ELIZABETH
Enter Nurse.
Exeunt [all but Juliet and Nurse].
Exeunt two GENTLEMEN With LADY ANNE
Enter BUCKINGHAM
Enter Father.
Enter RATCLIFF
Enter STANLEY
Enter a PRIEST
SCENE.--Verona; Mantua.
Enter DERBY
Enter LORD STANLEY
Enter Mother.
Enter RATCLIFF
Exeunt. Manent Musicians [and Nurse].
They march about the stage. [Exeunt.]
[Here he ascendeth the throne. Sound]
Enter Mother.
Enter Nurse.
Enter Tybalt.
Enter a MESSENGER
Exeunt BUCKINGHAM, MAYOR, and citizens
Re-enter CATESBY
Re-enter CATESBY
partisans.
Enter CATESBY
Enter CATESBY
Enter CATESBY
Enter Juliet.
Enter Peter.
Enter Romeo.
Enter STANLEY
Enter another MESSENGER
Enter another MESSENGER
and forces
Enter Apothecary.
Enter Benvolio.
Enter Chorus.
Enter Juliet.
Enter KING RICHARD
Enter LORD HASTINGS
Enter LORD HASTINGS
Enter Romeo.
Enter Romeo.
Enter Servingman.
Enter a MESSENGER
Enter a MESSENGER
Enter another CITIZEN
Exeunt all but BUCKINGHAM and GLOUCESTER
LORDS attending
THE PROLOGUE
two or three.
Enter BRAKENBURY
Enter GLOUCESTER
Enter Juliet above.
Enter Mother.
Enter NORFOLK
Enter Nurse.
Enter Old Capulet.
Enter Romeo.
Enter Tybalt and others.
Enter Tybalt.
Enter two MURDERERS
RATCLIFF, and CATESBY
Re-enter FIRST MURDERER
CATESBY returns
Enter Benvolio.
Enter Citizens.
Enter Friar Laurence.
Enter GLOUCESTER, and RATCLIFF
Enter LORD STANLEY
Enter Nurse [and Peter].
Enter Nurse and her Man [Peter].
Enter another MESSENGER
Enter the two MURDERERS
HASTINGS, and RATCLIFF
His ORATION to his ARMY
[Soldiers begin to set up the KING'S tent]
Alarums. Enter KING RICHARD
Enter BUCKINGHAM and DERBY
Enter Juliet above at a window.
Enter Juliet again, [above].
Enter Juliet.
Re-enter PAGE, with TYRREL
[Climbs the wall and leaps down within it.]
and [others].
drums and trumpets
Enter Juliet.
Exeunt all but HASTINGS, LOVEL, and RATCLIFF
Re-enter BUCKINGHAM
Re-enter the BISHOP OF ELY
son to HENRY THE SIXTH
An old hare hoar,
And an old hare hoar,
But a hare that is hoar
Enter Benvolio and Romeo.
Enter Benvolio with Mercutio.
Enter Capulet and Nurse.
Enter the GHOST of BUCKINGHAM
Enter the GHOST of CLARENCE
Is too much for a score
Enter BRAKENBURY the Lieutenant
Re-enter BUCKINGHAM and the rest
Enter HASTINGS, a pursuivant
Enter Old Montague and his Wife.
Enter RATCLIFF; CATESBY following
Enter the LORD MAYOR and CATESBY
His ORATION to his SOLDIERS
Enter Nurse, with cords.
Enter Prince Escalus, with his Train.
Enter Romeo's Man Balthasar, booted.
Enter old QUEEN MARGARET, behind
Enter the GHOST of HASTINGS
Enter the LORD MAYOR and his train
Is very good meat in Lent;
When it hoars ere it be spent.
ears; RIVERS and DORSET after her
Enter DERBY to RICHMOND in his tent;
Enter GLOUCESTER, BUCKINGHAM, DERBY,
Re-enter GLOUCESTER and BUCKINGHAM
and Gentlewomen to the Maskers.
Enter GLOUCESTER, HASTINGS, and DORSET
Enter HASTINGS, young YORK, and the CARDINAL
Enter the GHOST of HENRY THE SIXTH
Exeunt [all but Montague, his Wife, and Benvolio].
Exeunt all but GLOUCESTER, BUCKINGHAM, and CATESBY
Juliet, Tybalt, and all the Guests
and others. Some pitch RICHMOND'S tent
And doleful dumps the mind oppress,
Enter, on the other side of the field,
With speedy help doth lend redress.'         [Exit.
Enter QUEEN ELIZABETH, with her hair about her
Enter the GHOST Of YOUNG PRINCE EDWARD,
Enter, to his-tent, KING RICHARD, NORFOLK,
[The GHOSTS vanish. RICHARD starts out of his dream]
'Then music with her silver sound
'When griping grief the heart doth wound,
Enter GLOUCESTER aloft, between two BISHOPS.
Enter LOVEL and RATCLIFF, with HASTINGS' head
Enter Old Capulet in his gown, and his Wife.
Enter QUEEN ELIZABETH and the DUCHESS OF YORK
Enter the GHOSTS of RIVERS, GREY, and VAUGHAN
Enter the LORD MAYOR, ALDERMEN, and citizens
Enter two other Servingmen [Abram and Balthasar].
Re-enter KING RICHARD, RATCLIFF, attendants,
Then music with her silver sound'-
Enter the GHOST of LADY ANNE, his wife
Enter the LORDS to RICHMOND sitting in his tent
RICHMOND, SIR WILLIAM BRANDON, OXFORD, DORSET,
Enter KING RICHARD and his train, marching with
Enter the GHOSTS of the two young PRINCES
Tybalt under Romeo's arm thrusts Mercutio in, and flies
She [drinks and] falls upon her bed within the curtains.
'Signior Martino and his wife and daughters;
County Anselmo and his beauteous sisters;
Lucio and the lively Helena.'
Mercutio and his brother Valentine;
Mine uncle Capulet, his wife, and daughters;
My fair niece Rosaline and Livia;
Signior Placentio and His lovely nieces;
Signior Valentio and His cousin Tybalt;
The lady widow of Vitruvio;
[He lays his breast open; she offers at it with his sword]
brother
brothers.
come
contrary.
cozen'd
days;
dead-
duty.
fortune;
hate thee,
heaven,
kindness
live,
logs.
spirit to curse
thy soul.
trudge about
Enter an officer, and three or four Citizens with clubs or
minstrel.
"Where is your mother?"'
'A bears him like a portly gentleman,
'A was a merry man) took up the child.
'An if a man did need a poison now
'Clarence is come-false, fleeting, perjur'd Clarence,
'Edward' and 'York.' Then haply will she weep;
'God send me no need of thee!' and by the operation of the second
'Hold, friends! friends, part!' and swifter than his tongue,
'Jockey of Norfolk, be not so bold,
'O, thus' quoth Dighton 'lay the gentle babes'-
'Proud'- and 'I thank you'- and 'I thank you not'-
'Romeo is banished'- to speak that word
'Small herbs have grace: great weeds do grow apace.'
'Thanks, gentle citizens and friends,' quoth I
'This general applause and cheerful shout
'Thus saith the Duke, thus hath the Duke inferr'd'-
'Thus, thus,' quoth Forrest 'girdling one another
'Tis but the pale reflex of Cynthia's brow;
'Tis death to me to be at enmity;
'Tis he that sends us to destroy you here.
'Tis more than we deserve or I expect.
'Tis not yet near day. Come, go with me;
'Tis now near night.
'Tis said, my liege, in Yorkshire are in arms.
'Tis since the earthquake now eleven years;
'Tis since the nuptial of Lucentio,
'Tis thought that Richmond is their admiral;
'Tis time to speak-my pains are quite forgot.
'Tis very late; she'll not come down to-night.
'To seek him here that means not to be found.
'Twas full two years ere I could get a tooth.
'Twixt my extremes and me this bloody knife
'Tybalt is dead, and Romeo- banished.'
'When he' quoth she 'shall split thy heart with sorrow,
'Yea,' quoth he, 'dost thou fall upon thy face?
'Yea,' quoth my husband, 'fall'st upon thy face?
'Your love says, like an honest gentleman,
'a? Gentlemen, can any of you tell me where I may find the young
(God save the mark!) here on his manly breast.
(Strange dream that gives a dead man leave to think!)
A bachelor, and a handsome stripling too.
A base foul stone, made precious by the foil
A beauty-waning and distressed widow,
A beggarly account of empty boxes,
A begging prince what beggar pities not?
A black day will it be to somebody.
A bloody tyrant and a homicide;
A book of prayers on their pillow lay;
A bump as big as a young cock'rel's stone;
A care-craz'd mother to a many sons,
A choking gall, and a preserving sweet.
A cockatrice hast thou hatch'd to the world,
A cold and drowsy humour; for no pulse
A damned saint, an honourable villain!
A dire induction am I witness to,
A dram of poison, such soon-speeding gear
A dream of what thou wast, a garish flag
A gentleman of princely parentage,
A grandam's name is little less in love
A grievous burden was thy birth to me;
A hall, a hall! give room! and foot it, girls.
A handkerchief; which, say to her, did drain
A happy and a joyful time of day!
A hell-hound that doth hunt us all to death.
A horse! a horse! my kingdom for a horse!             Exeunt
A husband and a son thou ow'st to me;
A king!-perhaps-
A knot you are of damned blood-suckers.
A liberal rewarder of his friends;
A lover may bestride the gossamer
A man that loves not me, nor none of you.
A milk-sop, one that never in his life
A mother only mock'd with two fair babes,
A pack of blessings light upon thy back;
A pair of bleeding hearts; thereon engrave
A pair of star-cross'd lovers take their life;
A peevish self-will'd harlotry it is.
A perilous knock; and it cried bitterly.
A piteous corse, a bloody piteous corse;
A plague o' both your houses! I am sped.
A plague upon you all! His royal Grace-
A queen in jest, only to fill the scene.
A royal battle might be won and lost.
A scum of Britaines, and base lackey peasants,
A sennet.
A shadow like an angel, with bright hair
A sign of dignity, a breath, a bubble,
A sin-absolver, and my friend profess'd,
A sort of vagabonds, rascals, and runaways,
A sweeter and a lovelier gentleman-
A thing devised by the enemy.
A thing like death to chide away this shame,
A thousand men that fishes gnaw'd upon,
A troubled mind drave me to walk abroad;
A villain, that is hither come in spite
A visor for a visor! What care I
A weeder-out of his proud adversaries,
A whining mammet, in her fortune's tender,
A whispering tale in a fair lady's ear,
Abate the edge of traitors, gracious Lord,
Abate thy valour in the acting it.
Abides in me; I say amen to her.
About it; for it stands me much upon
Above the clouds, as high as heaven itself?
Acquaint her here of my son Paris' love
Adding to clouds more clouds with his deep sighs;
Advance our standards, set upon our foes;
Advance your standards, draw your willing swords.
Advantaging their loan with interest
Adversity's sweet milk, philosophy,
Affection makes him false, he speaks not true.
Affliction is enanmour'd of thy parts,
Affrights thee with a hell of ugly devils!
Afore me, It is so very very late
After he once fell in with Mistress Shore.
After the battle let George Stanley die.
After the prompter, for our entrance;
Again shall you be mother to a king,
Against my children, brothers, and myself-
Against the Duke of Clarence, but have been
Against to-morrow. My heart is wondrous light,
Ah for my husband, for my dear Lord Edward!
Ah ha, my mistresses! which of you all
Ah me! how sweet is love itself possess'd,
Ah, gentle villain, do not turn away!
Ah, poor my lord, what tongue shall smooth thy name
Ah, sirrah, by my fay, it waxes late;
Ah, sirrah, this unlook'd-for sport comes well.
Ah, where's my man? Give me some aqua vitae.
Ah, who hath any cause to mourn but we?
Ah, word ill urg'd to one that is so ill!
Aiming, belike, at your interior hatred
Airy succeeders of intestate joys,
Alack the day! he's gone, he's kill'd, he's dead!
Alack, I love myself. Wherefore? For any good
Alack, alack, is it not like that I,
Alack, alack, that heaven should practise stratagems
Alas, I am the mother of these griefs!
Alas, alas! Help, help! My lady's dead!
Alas, you three on me, threefold distress'd,
Albeit against my conscience and my soul.
Albeit they were flesh'd villains, bloody dogs,
Alike bewitched by the charm of looks;
All circumstances well considered.
All forsworn, all naught, all dissemblers.
All in gore-blood. I swounded at the sight.
All may be well; but, if God sort it so,
All night for lesser cause, and ne'er been sick.
All our whole city is much bound to him.
All scatt'red in the bottom of the sea;
All several sins, all us'd in each degree,
All slain, all dead. 'Romeo is banished'-
All springs reduce their currents to mine eyes
All thin and naked, to the numb cold night?
All this divided York and Lancaster,
All this from my remembrance brutish wrath
All this is comfort; wherefore weep I then?
Alla stoccata carries it away.                      [Draws.]
Am I the master here, or you? Go to!
Amaze the welkin with your broken staves!
Among fresh female buds shall you this night
Among this princely heap, if any here,
An I might live to see thee married once, I have my wish.
An alligator stuff'd, and other skins
An earnest advocate to plead for him.
An envious thrust from Tybalt hit the life
An hour but married, Tybalt murdered,
An if thou couldst, thou couldst not make him live.
An if you leave me so, you do me wrong.
An ill-beseeming semblance for a feast.
An open et cetera, thou a pop'rin pear!
An outward honour for an inward toil;
An she agree, within her scope of choice
An you be mine, I'll give you to my friend;
An you be not, hang, beg, starve, die in the streets,
And 'twixt them rushes; underneath whose arm
And Anne my wife hath bid this world good night.
And Buckingham, back'd with the hardy Welshmen,
And Edward, my poor son, at Tewksbury.
And God, not we, hath plagu'd thy bloody deed.
And I Will stand the hazard of the die.
And I am nothing slow to slack his haste.
And I am proof against their enmity.
And I believe will never stand upright
And I did scorn it and disdain to fly.
And I for comfort have but one false glass,
And I in better state than e'er I was.
And I myself secure in grace and favour.
And I no friends to back my suit at all
And I will do it without fear or doubt,
And I will love thee and prefer thee for it.
And I will make thee think thy swan a crow.
And I will pamper it with lamentation.
And I will send you to my brother Gloucester,
And I will take thy word. Yet, if thou swear'st,
And I would have it suddenly perform'd.
And I'll believe thee.
And I'll corrupt her manners, stain her beauty,
And I'll no longer be a Capulet.
And I'll salute your Grace of York as mother
And I, in such a desp'rate bay of death,
And I, unjustly too, must grant it you.        [DERBY rises]
And Rice ap Thomas, with a valiant crew;
And Richard falls in height of all his pride.
And Tybalt calls; and then on Romeo cries,
And Tybalt's dead, that would have slain my husband.
And a good lady, and a wise and virtuous.
And afterward by substitute betroth'd
And aid thee in this doubtful shock of arms;
And all combin'd, save what thou must combine
And all good men of this ungovern'd isle.
And all my armour laid into my tent?
And all my fortunes at thy foot I'll lay
And all the better is it for the maid.
And all the pleasures you usurp are mine.
And all the ruins of distressful times
And all their ministers attend on him.
And all things change them to the contrary.
And all things shall be well, I warrant thee, wife.
And all this day an unaccustom'd spirit
And all those twenty could but kill one life.
And almost should'red in the swallowing gulf
And ample interchange of sweet discourse
And are you yet to your own souls so blind
And art thou chang'd? Pronounce this sentence then:
And ask'd the Mayor what meant this wilfull silence.
And at Northampton they do rest to-night;
And at the other is my good friend Catesby;
And bakes the elflocks in foul sluttish, hairs,
And be inheritor of thy desire.
And be not easily won to our requests.
And be not fix'd in doom perpetual,
And be not peevish-fond in great designs.
And be thy wife, if any be so mad,
And being but a toy, which is no grief to give.
And being seated, and domestic broils
And being thus frighted, swears a prayer or two
And bestial appetite in change of lust,
And between them and my Lord Chamberlain;
And bid her (mark you me?) on Wednesday next-
And bid her hasten all the house to bed,
And bid her wipe her weeping eyes withal.
And bid him come to take his last farewell.
And bid my lord, for joy of this good news,
And both are ready in their offices
And both the Princes had been breathing here,
And breath'd such life with kisses in my lips
And bring in cloudy night immediately.
And bring thee cords made like a tackled stair,
And but thou love me, let them find me here.
And by that knot looks proudly on the crown,
And by that loss your daughter is made Queen.
And by the bright tract of his fiery car
And by the second hour in the morning
And by their vehement instigation,
And call us orphans, wretches, castaways,
And call'd it Rugemount, at which name I started,
And charg'd us from his soul to love each other,
And cheer his Grace with quick and merry eyes.
And cited up a thousand heavy times,
And cruel Death hath catch'd it from my sight!
And cry 'O Clarence, my unhappy son!'?
And dallies with the wind, and scorns the sun.
And dangerous success of bloody wars,
And death, not Romeo, take my maidenhead!
And die ere men can say 'God save the Queen!'
And die in terror of thy guiltiness!
And do intend to make her Queen of England.
And do not doubt, right noble Princes both,
And doth it give me such a sight as this?
And drink it off, and if you had the strength
And drop into the rotten mouth of death.
And each hour's joy wreck'd with a week of teen.
And egally indeed to all estates-
And entertain a score or two of tailors
And ere this hand, by thee to Romeo's seal'd,
And even here brake off and came away.
And every hour more competitors
And every tale condemns me for a villain.
And every tongue brings in a several tale,
And fall something into a slower method-
And fall thy edgeless sword. Despair and die!
And fall thy edgeless sword. Despair and die.
And fall upon the ground, as I do now,
And fearest to die? Famine is in thy cheeks,
And find delight writ there with beauty's pen;
And finding him, the searchers of the town,
And finds the testy gentleman so hot
And fire-ey'd fury be my conduct now!
And flaky darkness breaks within the east.
And flecked darkness like a drunkard reels
And flourishes his blade in spite of me.
And follow thee my lord throughout the world.
And for his dreams, I wonder he's so simple
And for his meed, poor lord, he is mewed up.
And for more slander to thy dismal seat,
And for my sister, and her princely sons,
And for that name, which is no part of thee,
And for unfelt imaginations
And for your Grace, and you, my gracious lords.
And frantic outrage, end thy damned spleen,
And from her jealous arms pluck him perforce.
And from her womb children of divers kind
And from my heart's love I do thank thee for it.
And gave him what becomed love I might,
And gentle, kind, effeminate remorse,
And give him from me this most needful note.
And give us notice of his inclination;
And given in earnest what I begg'd in jest.
And gladly shunn'd who gladly fled from me.
And go, Sir Paris. Every one prepare
And hast the comfort of thy children left;
And he himself wand'red away alone,
And he shall signify from time to time
And he that slew them fouler than he is.
And he to yours, and all of you to God's!               Exit
And he will make the face of heaven so fine
And he would love me dearly as a child.
And hear the sentence of your moved prince.
And hear your mother's lamentation.
And help to arm me. Leave me, I say.
And her immortal part with angels lives.
And here he comes. All health, my sovereign lord!
And here receive we from our father Stanley
And hereabouts 'a dwells, which late I noted
And hide me with a dead man in his shroud-
And hire posthorses. I will hence to-night.
And hire those horses. I'll be with thee straight.
And his contract by deputy in France;
And his enforcement of the city wives;
And his resemblance, being not like the Duke.
And his to me,
And hither shall he come; and he and I
And hugg'd me in his arms, and swore with sobs
And humbly beg the death upon my knee.
And if I die no soul will pity me:
And if they fall they dash themselves to pieces.
And if thy poor devoted servant may
And if we meet, we shall not scape a brawl,
And in a bloody battle end thy days!
And in good time, here the lieutenant comes.
And in his needy shop a tortoise hung,
And in his wisdom hastes our marriage
And in my company my brother Gloucester,
And in my temper soft'ned valour's steel
And in no worldly suits would he be mov'd,
And in that shame still live my sorrow's rage!
And in the Duke's behalf I'll give my voice,
And in the breath of bitter words let's smother
And in the taste confounds the appetite.
And in the vapour of my glory smother'd.
And in their summer beauty kiss'd each other.
And in their triumph die, like fire and powder,
And in this borrowed likeness of shrunk death
And in this resolution here we leave you.
And in this state she 'gallops night by night
And kingly government of this your land-
And lay those honours on your high desert.
And lead thy daughter to a conqueror's bed;
And learn me how to lose a winning match,
And leave him all. Life, living, all is Death's.
And leave the burden of it all on thee.
And left thee but a very prey to time,
And let my griefs frown on the upper hand.
And let the nurse this night sit up with you;
And let the soul forth that adoreth thee,
And let their heirs, God, if thy will be so,
And light thee on the way to Mantua.
And like her most whose merit most shall be;
And little Ned Plantagenet, his son?
And little mouse, every unworthy thing,
And liv'd with looking on his images;
And live with Richmond, from the reach of hell.
And look you get a prayer-book in your hand,
And loves not me, be you, good lord, assur'd
And made Verona's ancient citizens
And made her widow to a woeful bed?
And madly play with my forefathers' joints,
And make her airy tongue more hoarse than mine
And make me die the thrall of Margaret's curse,
And make me happy in your unity.
And make poor England weep in streams of blood!
And make pursuit where he did mean no chase.
And make, no doubt, us happy by his reign.
And makes her pew-fellow with others' moan!
And makes himself an artificial night.
And many other of great name and worth;
And mark how well the sequel hangs together:
And may direct his course as please himself,
And may not wear them. O, here comes my nurse,
And meet me suddenly at Salisbury.
And mock'd the dead bones that lay scatt'red by.
And more at peace my soul shall part to heaven,
And more inconstant than the wind, who wooes
And most assured that he is a friend,
And much I need to help you, were there need.
And needly will be rank'd with other griefs,
And never in my days, I do protest,
And never more behold thy face again.
And never trouble Peter for the matter.
And none but fools do wear it. Cast it off.
And not be Richard that hath done all this.
And not impute this yielding to light love,
And not provok'd by any suitor else-
And not these bastard Britaines, whom our fathers
And now I cloy me with beholding it.
And now falls on her bed, and then starts up,
And often up and down my sons were toss'd
And palm to palm is holy palmers' kiss.
And pardon us the interruption
And part in just proportion our small power.
And pay no worship to the garish sun.
And pitied me, and kindly kiss'd my cheek;
And pity 'tis you liv'd at odds so long.
And plant your joys in living Edward's throne.
And pluck the mangled Tybalt from his shroud.,
And pluck'd two crutches from my feeble hands-
And presently repair to Crosby House;
And presently took post to tell it you.
And private in his chamber pens himself,
And promise them success and victory.
And prov'd the subject of mine own soul's curse,
And put thy fortune to the arbitrement
And quench the fire, the room is grown too hot.
And reason coldly of your grievances,
And reverend looker-on of two fair queens.
And said 'Dear Brother, live, and be a king'?
And sails upon the bosom of the air.
And say poor Margaret was a prophetess!
And sayest thou yet that exile is not death?
And see another, as I see thee now,
And see how be will take it at your hands.
And see how one another lends content;
And seem a saint when most I play the devil.
And send them thither. But at hand, at hand,
And sent to warn them to his royal presence.
And shall that tongue give pardon to a slave?
And shamefully my hopes by you are butcher'd.
And she as much in love, her means much less
And she brings news; and every tongue that speaks
And she shall be sole victoress, Caesar's Caesar.
And she shall scant show well that now seems best.
And she steal love's sweet bait from fearful hooks.
And she was wean'd (I never shall forget it),
And shrieks like mandrakes torn out of the earth,
And since that time it is eleven years,
And since, methinks, I would not grow so fast,
And slaughtered those that were the means to help him;
And slay thy lady that in thy life lives,
And sleeps again. This is that very Mab
And smilest upon the stroke that murders me.
And so did I. Well, we were born to die.
And so good Capulet, which name I tender
And so he vanish'd. Then came wand'ring by
And so once more return and tell his Grace.
And so wast thou, Lord Hastings, when my son
And so, God give you quiet rest to-night!
And so, most joyfully, we take our leave.
And so, my good Lord Mayor, we bid farewell.
And soar with them above a common bound.
And some ten voices cried 'God save King Richard!'
And sometime comes she with a tithe-pig's tail
And soon I'll rid you from the fear of them.
And soothe the devil that I warn thee from?
And soundly too. Your houses!
And stand between two churchmen, good my lord;
And started when he look'd upon the Tower,
And steal immortal blessing from her lips,
And stole into the covert of the wood.
And stops he now for breath? Well, be it so.
And summon him to-morrow to the Tower,
And take deep traitors for thy dearest friends!
And take thy office from thee on my peril.
And teach me how to curse mine enemies!
And tell them 'tis the Queen and her allies
And that a winged Mercury did bear;
And that bare vowel 'I' shall poison more
And that dear saint which then I weeping follow'd-
And that may be determin'd at the one
And that my path were even to the crown,
And that the trunk may be discharg'd of breath
And that we have a curse in having her.
And that you come to reprehend my ignorance.
And the Queen's sons and brothers haught and proud;
And the beholders of this frantic play,
And the compact is firm and true in me.
And the continuance of their parents' rage,
And the demesnes that there adjacent lie,
And the dire death of my poor sons and brothers?
And the most merciless that e'er was heard of!
And the place death, considering who thou art,
And the rank poison of the old will die.
And then I hope thou wilt be satisfied.
And then again begin, and stop again,
And then awake as from a pleasant sleep.
And then deny her aiding hand therein,
And then down falls again.
And then dreams he of cutting foreign throats,
And then dreams he of smelling out a suit;
And then hurl down their indignation
And then my husband (God be with his soul!
And then return lamenting to my love.
And then to dry them gav'st the Duke a clout
And then to have a wretched puling fool,
And then, as we have ta'en the sacrament,
And then, in speaking, not to incur the last-
And there an end. But what say you to Thursday?
And there awake God's gentle-sleeping peace.
And there die strangled ere my Romeo comes?
And there she shall at Friar Laurence' cell
And there the little souls of Edward's children
And there they hull, expecting but the aid
And therefore cannot have the hearts to do it.
And therefore hath the wind-swift Cupid wings.
And therefore have I little talk'd of love;
And therefore level not to hit their lives.
And therefore thou mayst think my haviour light;
And therefore, in mine opinion, cannot have it.
And thereupon he sends you this good news,
And these, who, often drown'd, could never die,
And they indeed had no cause to mistrust;
And this distilled liquor drink thou off;
And this is Edward's wife, that monstrous witch,
And this same needy man must sell it me.
And this shall free thee from this present shame,
And thither bear your treasure and your goods.
And those who have the wit to claim the place.
And thou a kingdom; all of you allegiance.
And thou and Romeo press one heavy bier!
And thou art wedded to calamity.
And thou dismemb'red with thine own defence.
And throw them in the entrails of the wolf?
And thus I clothe my naked villainy
And thus I took the vantage of those few-
And thus my battle shall be ordered:
And thy assistance, is King Richard seated.
And to give order that no manner person
And to myself become an enemy.
And to't they go like lightning; for, ere I
And towards London do they bend their power,
And turn you all your hatred now on me?
And turn'd that black word death to banishment.
And turns it to exile. There art thou happy.
And twenty times made pause to sob and weep
And unrespective boys; none are for me
And usest none in that true use indeed
And vice sometime's by action dignified.
And was embark'd to cross to Burgundy;
And we will both together to the Tower,
And weep ye now, seeing she is advanc'd
And weigh thee down to ruin, shame, and death!
And were they to be rul'd, and not to rule,
And wet his grave with my repentant tears-
And what I spake, I spake it to my face.
And what love can do, that dares love attempt.
And what obscur'd in this fair volume lies
And what these sorrows could not thence exhale
And what you do, do it unfeignedly.
And when I have my meed, I will away;
And when mine oratory drew toward end
And when my uncle told me so, he wept,
And when this arm of mine hath chastised
And when thou wed'st, let sorrow haunt thy bed;
And where care lodges sleep will never lie;
And where the worser is predominant,
And wherefore should they, since that I myself
And who doth lead them but a paltry fellow,
And who is England's King but great York's heir?
And will she yet abase her eyes on me,
And will to France, hoping the consequence
And will, no doubt, shortly be rid of me.
And will, no doubt, tempt him to anything.
And wish his mistress were that kind of fruit
And with a silk thread plucks it back again,
And with a virtuous vizor hide deep vice!
And with all speed post with him toward the north
And with my child my joys are buried!
And with my hand I seal my true heart's love.
And with this knife I'll help it presently.
And with thy scorns drew'st rivers from his eyes,
And world's exile is death. Then 'banishment'
And yet 'not proud'? Mistress minion you,
And yet I wish but for the thing I have.
And yet I would it were to give again.
And yet go current from suspicion!
And yet his punishment was bitter death.
And yet no farther than a wanton's bird,
And yet no man like he doth grieve my heart.
And yet not fall; so light is vanity.
And yet to win her, all the world to nothing!
And yet within these five hours Hastings liv'd,
And yet, I warrant, it bad upon it brow
And yet, to my teen be it spoken, I have but four-
And you shall understand from me her mind.
And you, Sir Walter Herbert-stay with me.
And young affection gapes to be his heir;
And your good Graces both have well proceeded
And yours, close fighting ere I did approach.
And, Montague, come you this afternoon,
And, Rivers, so were you. Was not your husband
And, after many length'ned hours of grief,
And, as he fell, did Romeo turn and fly.
And, as it were far off, sound thou Lord Hastings
And, being anger'd, puffs away from thence,
And, by true computation of the time,
And, if thou dar'st, I'll give thee remedy.
And, in his full and ripened years, himself,
And, in record, left them the heirs of shame.
And, in strong proof of chastity well arm'd,
And, in this rage, with some great kinsman's bone
And, look when I am King, claim thou of me
And, on my life, hath stol'n him home to bed.
And, pretty fool, it stinted, and said 'Ay.'
And, princely peers, a happy time of day!
And, see, a book of prayer in his hand,
And, to say truth, Verona brags of him
And, touching hers, make blessed my rude hand.
And, with a martial scorn, with one hand beats
Anne thy wife
Anointed let me be with deadly venom,
Anon expect him here; but if she be obdurate
Anon, good nurse! Sweet Montague, be true.
Anthony, and Potpan!
Appear thou in the likeness of a sigh;
Are at my service, like enforced smiles;
Are at their beads, 'tis much to draw them thence,
Are come from visiting his Majesty.
Are come to have some conference with his Grace.
Are crack'd in pieces by malignant death,
Are daily given to ennoble those
Are made already mothers. By my count,
Are sent to Pomfret, and with them
Are they not now upon the western shore,
Are they that I would have thee deal upon.
Are you at leisure, holy father, now,
Are you now going to dispatch this thing?
Are you so hot? Marry come up, I trow.
Argues your wisdoms and your love to Richard.'
Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon,
Arm, fight, and conquer, for fair England's sake!
Armed in proof and led by shallow Richmond.
Art thou a man? Thy form cries out thou art;
Art thou not Romeo, and a Montague?
As 'twere in scorn of eyes, reflecting gems,
As 'twere retail'd to all posterity,
As I by friends am well advertised,
As I can say nay to thee for myself,
As I had title in thy noble husband!
As I hate hell, all Montagues, and thee.
As I intend more good to you and yours
As I remember, this should be the house.
As Paris hath. Beshrew my very heart,
As Phaeton would whip you to the West
As all the world is cheered by the sun,
As all the world- why he's a man of wax.
As are behooffull for our state to-morrow.
As being got, your father then in France,
As blameful as the executioner?
As closely to conceal what we impart.
As daylight doth a lamp; her eyes in heaven
As dearly as mine own, be satisfied.
As else I would be, were the day prolong'd.
As glorious to this night, being o'er my head,
As if the golden fee for which I plead
As if thou were distraught and mad with terror?
As in a vault, an ancient receptacle
As index to the story we late talk'd of,
As is a winged messenger of heaven
As is the bud bit with an envious worm
As is the night before some festival
As it is won with blood, lost be it so!
As little joy you may suppose in me
As living here and you no use of him.
As loath to bear me to the slaughter-house.
As loath to lose him, not your father's death;
As maids call medlars when they laugh alone.
As mine on hers, so hers is set on mine,
As one being best acquainted with her humour.
As one dead in the bottom of a tomb.
As ours by murder, to make him a king!
As that is desperate which we would prevent.
As that the villain lives which slaughter'd him.
As that vast shore wash'd with the farthest sea,
As the ripe revenue and due of birth,
As thou and I, who, as thou knowest, are dear
As thou canst yield a melancholy seat!
As too triumphing, how mine enemies
As violently as hasty powder fir'd
As well I tender you and all of yours!
As well as I had seen and heard him speak;
As well the fear of harm as harm apparent,
As well we know your tenderness of heart
As will disperse itself through all the veins
As with a club dash out my desp'rate brains?
As yonder lady o'er her fellows shows.
As you think fit to furnish me to-morrow?
As you would beg were you in my distress.
Ascend her chamber, hence and comfort her.
At Chertsey monast'ry this noble king,
At Tewksbury; despair, therefore, and die!
At any time to grace my stratagems.
At home, abroad, alone, in company,
At lower end of the hall hurl'd up their caps,
At my poor house look to behold this night
At some hours in the night spirits resort-
At young Elizabeth, my brother's daughter,
Athwart men's noses as they lie asleep;
Attend the sequel of your imposition,
Attendants.
Away from light steals home my heavy son
Away to heaven respective lenity,
Ay, and forswore himself-which Jesu pardon!-
Ay, let the County take you in your bed!
Ay, marry, go, I say, and fetch him hither.
BUCKINGHAM. My lord, I have consider'd in my mind
Back, foolish tears, back to your native spring!
Bad is the world; and all will come to nought,
Bade me rely on him as on my father,
Be brisk awhile, and the longer liver take all.      Exeunt.
Be executed in his father's sight.
Be he unto me! This do I beg of God
Be heap'd like mine, and that thy skill be more
Be not her maid, since she is envious.
Be not so long to speak. I long to die
Be not ta'en tardy by unwise delay.
Be not you spoke with but by mighty suit;
Be opposite all planets of good luck
Be patient, for the world is broad and wide.
Be quiet, or- More light, more light!- For shame!
Be satisfied, dear God, with our true blood,
Be shriv'd and married. Here is for thy pains.
Be the attorney of my love to her;
Be thou so too, and so break off the talk,
Be to thy person, noble father-in-law!
Bear hence this body, and attend our will.
Bear with her weakness, which I think proceeds
Bearing a Tartar's painted bow of lath,
Beautiful tyrant! fiend angelical!
Beauty too rich for use, for earth too dear!
Because I cannot flatter and look fair,
Because I will be guiltless from the meaning.
Because a bard of Ireland told me once
Because he married me before to Romeo?
Because it is an enemy to thee.
Because sweet flow'rs are slow and weeds make haste.
Because that I am little, like an ape,
Because their breaths with sweetmeats tainted are.
Because they have been still my adversaries;
Because, my lord, I would have had you heard
Because, my lord, you know my mother lives.
Before I be convict by course of law,
Before I positively speak in this.
Before I'll see the crown so foul misplac'd.
Before sunrising, lest his son George fall
Beg pardon of the Prince, and call thee back
Beget your happiness, be happy then,
Begot of nothing but vain fantasy;
Being a bark to brook no mighty sea-
Being a divine, a ghostly confessor,
Being black puts us in mind they hide the fair.
Being but heavy, I will bear the light.
Being held a foe, he may not have access
Being holiday, the beggar's shop is shut. What, ho! apothecary!
Being in night, all this is but a dream,
Being nothing like the noble Duke my father.
Being one too many by my weary self-
Being our kinsman, if we revel much.
Being pent from liberty as I am now,
Being purg'd, a fire sparkling in lovers' eyes;
Being spoke behind your back, than to your face.
Being tasted, slays all senses with the heart.
Being the right idea of your father,
Being vex'd, a sea nourish'd with lovers' tears.
Believe me, love, it was the nightingale.
Belonging to a man. O, be some other name!
Beshrew your heart for sending me about
Besides, he hates me for my father Warwick;
Besides, he says there are two councils kept,
Besides, the King's name is a tower of strength,
Best fitteth my degree or your condition.
Bett'ring thy loss makes the bad-causer worse;
Between the Duke of Gloucester and your brothers,
Between these swelling wrong-incensed peers.
Betwixt thy begging and my meditation.
Bid Gloucester think of this, and he will weep.
Bid him not fear the separated council:
Bishop of Exeter, his elder brother,
Black and portentous must this humour prove
Bless'd his three sons with his victorious arm
Blind is his love and best befits the dark.
Blood to blood, self against self. O, preposterous
Bloody thou art; bloody will be thy end.
Blubb'ring and weeping, weeping and blubbering.
Bold, quick, ingenious, forward, capable.
Bondage is hoarse and may not speak aloud;
Both in your form and nobleness of mind;
Both you and I, for Romeo is exil'd.
Bound with triumphant garlands will I come,
Boy!
Brags of his substance, not of ornament.
Brief abstract and record of tedious days,
Brief sounds determine of my weal or woe.
Bruis'd underneath the yoke of tyranny,
Buckingham's army is dispers'd and scatter'd;
Buckingham,
Buckingham?
But 'banished' to kill me- 'banished'?
But 'tis no wit to go.
But 'twas thy beauty that provoked me.
But 'twas thy heavenly face that set me on.
But I had rather kill two enemies.
But I will watch you from such watching now.
But I'll acquaint our duteous citizens
But I'll amerce you with so strong a fine
But I'll not trust thee.
But I, a maid, die maiden-widowed.
But O, it presses to my memory
But Romeo may not- he is banished.
But Romeo may not. More validity,
But Romeo's name speaks heavenly eloquence.
But Thou wilt be aveng'd on my misdeeds,
But all so soon as the all-cheering sun
But as successively, from blood to blood,
But beg one favour at thy gracious hand,
But by his mother was perforce withheld.
But by some unlook'd accident cut off!
But by-and-by comes back to Romeo,
But canst thou guess that he doth aim at it?
But cheer thy heart and be thou not dismay'd:
But come, my lord, let's away.
But come, my lord; and with a heavy heart,
But come, young waverer, come go with me.
But dead they are, and, devilish slave, by thee.
But death hath snatch'd my husband from mine arms
But every man betake him to his legs.
But fettle your fine joints 'gainst Thursday next
But first I'll turn yon fellow in his grave,
But for his purpose in the coronation
But for my brother not a man would speak;
But for the sunset of my brother's son
But he that hath the steerage of my course
But he, his own affections' counsellor,
But heaven keeps his part in eternal life.
But his red colour hath forsook his cheeks.
But if I thrive, the gain of my attempt
But if black scandal or foul-fac'd reproach
But in that crystal scales let there be weigh'd
But lately splinter'd, knit, and join'd together,
But leave it all to God. Whither away?
But look thou stay not till the watch be set,
But look'd not on the poison of their hearts.
But love from love, towards school with heavy looks.
But love thee better than thou canst devise
But meditating with two deep divines;
But mine shall be a comfort to your age.
But much of grief shows still some want of wit.
But my true love is grown to such excess
But no more deep will I endart mine eye
But none can help our harms by wailing them.
But not possess'd it; and though I am sold,
But nothing spoke in warrant from himself.
But now I see this one is one too much,
But now I'll tell thee joyful tidings, girl.
But now two mirrors of his princely semblance
But now, I tell thee-keep it to thyself-
But now, my lord, what say you to my suit?
But old folks, many feign as they were dead-
But on his knees at meditation;
But on thy side I may not be too forward,
But one thing to rejoice and solace in,
But one, poor one, one poor and loving child,
But passion lends them power, time means, to meet,
But penetrable to your kind entreaties,
But praying, to enrich his watchful soul.
But purgatory, torture, hell itself.
But sadly tell me who.
But sanctuary children never till now.
But send him back.
But shall we wear these glories for a day;
But she's best married that dies married young.
But since you teach me how to flatter you,
But smother'd it within my panting bulk,
But so it must be, if the King miscarry.
But soft! What light through yonder window breaks?
But tell me, where is princely Richmond now?
But thankful even for hate that is meant love.
But that I'll give my voice on Richard's side
But that stiff use of grief makes wild grief tame,
But that the extreme peril of the case,
But that thou overheard'st, ere I was ware,
But that thy brothers beat aside the point.
But the plain devil and dissembling looks,
But the respects thereof are nice and trivial,
But then I sigh and, with a piece of Scripture,
But this good comfort bring I to your Highness-
But thou slewest Tybalt. There art thou happy too.
But thus his simple truth must be abus'd
But to himself so secret and so close,
But to his foe suppos'd he must complain,
But to rejoice in splendour of my own.              [Exeunt.]
But to the earth some special good doth give;
But trust me, gentleman, I'll prove more true
But we will plant some other in the throne
But what, is Catesby gone?
But when your carters or your waiting-vassals
But where to-morrow? Well, all's one for that.
But where unbruised youth with unstuff'd brain
But where, to say the truth, I do not know.
But wherefore, villain, didst thou kill my cousin?
But with a rearward following Tybalt's death,
But with his timorous dreams was still awak'd.
But woo her, gentle Paris, get her heart;
But yet you see how soon the day o'ercast.
But you have power in me as in a kinsman.
But you must trouble him with lewd complaints.
But you shall bear the burthen soon at night.
But you, my honourable lords, may name the time;
But, God be thank'd, there is no need of me-
But, O, the devil'-there the villain stopp'd;
But, an you will not wed, I'll pardon you.
But, leaving this, what is your Grace's pleasure?
But, let them measure us by what they will,
But, like a misbhav'd and sullen wench,
But, like dumb statues or breathing stones,
But, now thy beauty is propos'd my fee,
But, sirs, be sudden in the execution,
But, soft! what day is this?
But, soft, here come my executioners.
But, sure, I fear we shall not win him to it.
But, teLL me is young George Stanley living.
By Christ's dear blood shed for our grievous sins,
By God's fair ordinance conjoin together!
By a divine instinct men's minds mistrust
By any livelihood he show'd to-day?
By any other name would smell as sweet.
By circumstance but to acquit myself.
By circumstance to accuse thy cursed self.
By cruel cruel thee quite overthrown!
By doing damned hate upon thyself?
By false intelligence or wrong surmise,
By having him making yourself no less.
By heaven, I will acquaint his Majesty
By heaven, we come to him in perfect love;
By heavens, the Duke shall know how slack you have
By her fine foot, straight leg, and quivering thigh,
By her high forehead and her scarlet lip,
By her, in his unlawful bed, he got
By holy Laurence to fall prostrate here
By holy Paul, they love his Grace but lightly
By holy marriage. When, and where, and how
By how much the estate is green and yet ungovern'd;
By leaving earth? Comfort me, counsel me.
By one that I'll procure to come to thee,
By playing it to me with so sour a face.
By some vile forfeit of untimely death.
By strangling thee in her accursed womb,
By the false faith of him whom most I trusted;
By the suggestion of the Queen's allies;
By thee was punched full of deadly holes.
By thee, old Capulet, and Montague,
By their own beauties; or, if love be blind,
By this one bloody trial of sharp war.
By underhand corrupted foul injustice,
CLARENCE. It cannot be; for he bewept my fortune
Call Peter; he will show thee where they are.
Call for some men of sound direction.
Call me but love, and I'll be new baptiz'd;
Call them again. I am not made of stones,
Call up Lord Stanley, bid him bring his power.
Call, good Mercutio.
Came he not home to-night?
Came more and more, and fought on part and part,
Came to me, as I follow'd Henry's corse;
Came to my tent and cried on victory.
Came to my tent, and every one did threat
Can curses pierce the clouds and enter heaven?
Can from his mother win the Duke of York,
Can lesser hide his love or hate than he;
Can make seem pleasing to her tender years?
Can this dark monarchy afford false Clarence?'
Cancel his bond of life, dear God, I pray,
Cank'red with peace, to part your cank'red hate.
Cannot a plain man live and think no harm
Cannot be quiet searce a breathing while
Canst thou demise to any child of mine?
Capulet; and if you be not of the house of Montagues, I pray come
Care keeps his watch in every old man's eye,
Cast by their grave beseeming ornaments
Castle;
Catesby hath sounded Hastings in our business,
Catesby,
Catesby,
Chamberlain!
Check'ring the Eastern clouds with streaks of light;
Clarence and Edward. O, what cause have I-
Clarence, who I indeed have cast in darkness,
Clarence?
Clean over-blown, themselves the conquerors
Cold death aside and with the other sends
Cold fearful drops stand on my trembling flesh.
Come Lammas Eve at night shall she be fourteen.
Come Pentecost as quickly as it will,
Come hither, cover'd with an antic face,
Come lead me, officers, to the block of shame;
Come on, Lord Hastings, will you go with me?
Come on, come on; where is your boar-spear, man?
Come the next Sabbath, and I will content you.
Come thou on my side and entreat for me-
Come to redeem me? There's a fearful point!
Come to thy heart as that within my breast!
Come weep with me- past hope, past cure, past help!
Come, Hastings, help me to my closet. Ah, poor Clarence!
Come, I have learn'd that fearful commenting
Come, citizens. Zounds, I'll entreat no more.
Come, cordial and not poison, go with me
Come, cords; come, nurse. I'll to my wedding bed;
Come, death, and welcome! Juliet wills it so.
Come, gentle night; come, loving, black-brow'd night;
Come, go with me. [To Servant, giving him a paper] Go, sirrah,
Come, lead me to the block; bear him my head.
Come, let us sup betimes, that afterwards
Come, let's away; the strangers all are gone.        Exeunt.
Come, night; come, Romeo; come, thou day in night;
Come, shall we go?
Come, vial.
Come, will you go?
Compare dead happiness with living woe;
Compare her face with some that I shall show,
Confound your hidden falsehood and award
Conscience is but a word that cowards use,
Consisting equally of horse and foot;
Consorted with that harlot strumpet Shore,
Contempt and beggary hangs upon thy back:
Could draw to part them, was stout Tybalt slain;
Could not believe but that I was in hell,
Could not take truce with the unruly spleen
Could to no issue of true honour bring.
Could we but learn from whence his sorrows grow,
Couple it with something; make it a word and a blow.
Cousin of Buckingham, and sage grave men,
Cousin, thou wast not wont to be so dull.
Cry 'God save Richard, England's royal King!'
Cry but 'Ay me!' pronounce but 'love' and 'dove';
Culling of simples. Meagre were his looks,
Cuts beauty off from all posterity.
Cuts off the ceremonious vows of love
Dabbled in blood, and he shriek'd out aloud
Daring an opposite to every danger.
Daughter, well met.
Day, yield me not thy light; nor, night, thy rest!
Dead art thou, dead! alack, my child is dead,
Death and destruction dogs thee at thy heels;
Death is my son-in-law, Death is my heir;
Death lies on her like an untimely frost
Death makes no conquest of this conqueror;
Death, desolation, ruin, and decay.
Deck'd in thy rights, as thou art stall'd in mine!
Decline an this, and see what now thou art:
Deep, hollow, treacherous, and full of guile,
Deferr'd the visitation of my friends.
Definitively thus I answer you:
Delay leads impotent and snail-pac'd beggary.
Delay this marriage for a month, a week;
Denounc'd against thee are all fall'n upon thee;
Deny thy father and refuse thy name!
Derby?
Deserve not worse than wretched Clarence did,
Desire the Earl to see me in my tent.
Despised substance of divinest show!
Devis'd at first to keep the strong in awe.
Devis'd impeachments to imprison him.
Did I enjoy the golden dew of sleep,
Did Julius Caesar build that place, my lord?
Did York's dread curse prevail so much with heaven
Did ever dragon keep so fair a cave?
Did it to help thee to a better husband.
Did murther her; as that name's cursed hand
Did my heart love till now? Forswear it, sight!
Did prophesy that Richmond should be King,
Did to thy father, steep'd in Rutland's blood-
Didst break that vow; and with thy treacherous blade
Didst thou not kill this king?
Die in his youth by like untimely violence!
Die neither mother, wife, nor England's Queen!
Dighton and Forrest, who I did suborn
Digressing from the valour of a man;
Direct my sail! On, lusty gentlemen!
Displant a town, reverse a prince's doom,
Dissemble not your hatred, swear your love.
Divided in their dire division,
Divinely bent to meditation;
Do I live dead that live to tell it now.
Do as thou wilt, for I have done with thee.            Exit.
Do ebb and flow with tears; the bark thy body is
Do lace the severing clouds in yonder East.
Do thou but call my resolution wise
Do thou but close our hands with holy words,
Do through the clouds behold this present hour,
Do you not see that I am out of breath?
Doing more murther in this loathsome world,
Dorset your son, that with a fearful soul
Dorset,
Dost thou love me, I know thou wilt say 'Ay';
Dost thou not bring me letters from the friar?
Dost thou not laugh?
Doth add more grief to too much of mine own.
Doth cherish you and yours, God punish me
Doth comfort thee in thy sleep. Live and flourish!
Doth couch his limbs, there golden sleep doth reign.
Doth grace for grace and love for love allow.
Doth hurry from the fatal cannon's womb.
Doth much excuse the appertaining rage
Doth my name lodge? Tell me, that I may sack
Doth not she think me an old murtherer,
Doth with their death bury their parents' strife.
Doting like me, and like me banished,
Dove-feather'd raven! wolvish-ravening lamb!
Draw, archers, draw your arrows to the head!
Drawn with a team of little atomies
Dream of success and happy victory.
Dream on, dream on of bloody deeds and death;
Driving back shadows over low'ring hills.
Drown desperate sorrow in dead Edward's grave,
Drums in his ear, at which he starts and wakes,
Dry sorrow drinks our blood. Adieu, adieu!
Dry up your tears and stick your rosemary
Duck with French nods and apish courtesy,
Dukes, earls, lords, gentlemen-indeed, of all.
During the wars of York and Lancaster,
Each part, depriv'd of supple government,
Earth gapes, hell burns, fiends roar, saints pray,
Earth-treading stars that make dark heaven light.
Edward Plantagenet, why art thou dead?
Edward for Edward pays a dying debt.
Edward thy son, that now is Prince of Wales,
Edward's unhappy sons do bid thee flourish.
Edward, her lord, whom I, some three months since,
Eighty odd years of sorrow have I seen,
Either be gone before the watch be set,
Either be patient and entreat me fair,
Either my eyesight fails, or thou look'st pale.
Either of you to be the other's end.
Either thou or I, or both, must go with him.
Either withdraw unto some private place
Eleven hours I have spent to write it over,
Else would I tear the cave where Echo lies,
Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek
Else, when he is found, that hour is his last.
Encourage him, and tell him all our reasons;
Endur'd of her, for whom you bid like sorrow.
Enforc'd us to this execution?
England hath long been mad, and scarr'd herself;
Enrich the time to come with smooth-fac'd peace,
Ensues his piteous and unpitied end.
Ensuing danger; as by proof we see
Enter the Maskers, Enter, [with Servants,] Capulet, his Wife,
Environ'd me, and howled in mine ears
Environed with all these hideous fears,
Ere I again behold my Romeo!
Ere I let fall the windows of mine eyes.
Ere from this war thou turn a conqueror;
Ere he can spread his sweet leaves to the air
Ere he that should be husband comes to woo.
Ere one can say 'It lightens.' Sweet, good night!
Ere we may think her ripe to be a bride.
Even for revenge mock my destruction!
Even in his garments, and did give himself,
Even in the afternoon of her best days,
Even now the frozen bosom of the North
Even of your metal, of your very blood;
Even so thy breast encloseth my poor heart;
Even to the general all-ending day.
Even where his raging eye or savage heart
Evermore show'ring? In one little body
Every good hap to you that chances here.
Examine every married lineament,
Examine other beauties.
Exceeding those that I can wish upon thee,
Fain would I dwell on form- fain, fain deny
Fainting, despair; despairing, yield thy breath!
False to his children and his wife's allies;
Falsely to draw me in these vile suspects.
Familiarly shall call thy Dorset brother;
Famous Plantagenet, most gracious Prince,
Far be it from my heart, the thought thereof!
Farewell till then.
Farewell, My lord.- Light to my chamber, ho!
Farewell, York's wife, and queen of sad mischance;
Farewell, dear father.
Farewell, my cousin; farewell, gentle friends.        Exeunt
Farewell, my coz.
Farewell, until we meet again in heaven.              Exeunt
Farewell.
Farewell.                                             Exeunt
Farewell. Be trusty, and I'll quit thy pains.
Farewell. Buy food and get thyself in flesh.
Farewell. Commend me to thy mistress.
Farewell. Thou canst not teach me to forget.
Farewell; the leisure and the fearful time
Fatal and ominous to noble peers!
Fear you the boar, and go so unprovided?
Feather of lead, bright smoke, cold fire, sick health!
Felt so much cold as over shoes in snow?
Fetch me my rapier, boy. What, dares the slave
Fie, fie, thou shamest thy shape, thy love, thy wit,
Fie, how my bones ache! What a jaunce have I had!
Fie, what a slug is Hastings, that he comes not
Fight, gentlemen of England! Fight, bold yeomen!
Fill me a bowl of wine. Give me a watch.
Find in myself no pity to myself?
Find written in the margent of his eyes,
First, he commends him to your noble self.
First, if all obstacles were cut away,
First, madam, I entreat true peace of you,
Five have I slain to-day instead of him.
Five times in that ere once in our five wits.
Flock to the rebels, and their power grows strong.
Flourish.                                             Exeunt
Flower as she was, deflowered by him.
Foes to my rest, and my sweet sleep's disturbers,
Fool, fool! thou whet'st a knife to kill thyself.
Fool, of thyself speak well. Fool, do not flatter.
For 'tis a throne where honour may be crown'd
For 'twas your heaven she should be advanc'd;
For Clarence is well-spoken, and perhaps
For Dickon thy master is bought and sold.'
For Edward our son, that was Prince of Wales,
For Edward's sake, and see how he requites me!
For Edward, for my brother, for his sake.
For God doth know, and you may partly see,
For God sake, let not us two stay at home;
For I am proverb'd with a grandsire phrase,
For I am she, and altogether joyless.
For I am sure you have your hands full all
For I had then laid wormwood to my dug,
For I have need of many orisons
For I myself am not so well provided
For I myself have many tears to wash
For I ne'er saw true beauty till this night.
For I repent me that the Duke is slain.                 Exit
For I shall never speak to thee again.
For I, too fond, might have prevented this.
For Juliet's sake, for her sake, rise and stand!
For Queen, a very caitiff crown'd with care;
For Venus smiles not in a house of tears.
For beauty, starv'd with her severity,
For blood of ours shed blood of Montague.
For by his face straight shall you know his heart.
For by the way I'll sort occasion,
For divers unknown reasons, I beseech you,
For doing worthy vengeance on thyself
For emulation who shall now be nearest
For even the day before, she broke her brow;
For exile hath more terror in his look,
For fair without the fair within to hide.
For false forswearing, and for murder too;
For first was he contract to Lady Lucy-
For had I curs'd now, I had curs'd myself.
For happy wife, a most distressed widow;
For hark you, Tybalt being slain so late,
For hateful deeds committed by myself!
For he hath still been tried a holy man.
For he was fitter for that place than earth.
For here we need it not.
For him, poor soul. The proudest of you all
For in a minute there are many days.
For in that sin he is as deep as I.
For it excels your first; or if it did not,
For it is done.
For it requires the royal debt it lent you.
For it was bad enough before their spite.
For joyful mother, one that wails the name;
For kissing, lady, not for such contempt.
For making me, so young, so old a widow;
For me to joy and weep their gain and loss;
For me, the ransom of my bold attempt
For men so old as we to keep the peace.
For my part, I'll resign unto your Grace
For naught so vile that on the earth doth live
For never yet one hour in his bed
For nothing can be ill if she be well.
For now he lives in fame, though not in life.
For now they kill me with a living death.
For now, these hot days, is the mad blood stirring.
For on that ground I'll make a holy descant;
For one being su'd to, one that humbly sues;
For saints have hands that pilgrims' hands do touch,
For she being fear'd of all, now fearing one;
For she commanding all, obey'd of none.
For she that scorn'd at me, now scorn'd of me;
For so he said he would.                         Play music.
For standing by when Richard stabb'd her son.
For still thy eyes, which I may call the sea,
For stony limits cannot hold love out,
For such a wish! He was not born to shame.
For sweet discourses in our time to come.
For tender princes, use my babies well.
For that which thou hast heard me speak to-night.
For the instalment of this noble Duke
For thee to slaughter. For my daughters, Richard,
For then I hope thou wilt not keep him long
For then she could stand high-lone; nay, by th' rood,
For then this land was famously enrich'd
For then thou canst not pass to Mantua,
For this alliance may so happy prove
For this night's watching.
For this time all the rest depart away.
For this will out, and then I must not stay.            Exit
For this, being smelt, with that part cheers each part;
For this, consorted with the citizens,
For thou wilt lie upon the wings of night
For though fond nature bids us all lament,
For truth, for duty, and for loyalty.
For want of means, poor rats, had hang'd themselves.
For we to-morrow hold divided councils,
For well you know this is a pitiful case.            [Exit.]
For what is he they follow? Truly, gentlemen,
For which your honour and your faith is pawn'd:
For who is living, if those two are gone?
For whose dear sake thou wast but lately dead.
For yesternight by Catesby was it sent me;
For you and I are past our dancing days.
For your best health and recreation.
For, by my soul, I'll ne'er acknowledge thee,
For, by your leaves, you shall not stay alone
For, lords, to-morrow is a busy day.                  Exeunt
For, were he, he had shown it in his looks.
Forbid this bandying in Verona streets.
Forbids to dwell upon; yet remember this:
Forgetting any other home but this.
Forthwith from Ludlow the young prince be fet
Found that the issue was not his begot;
Fram'd in the prodigality of nature,
From Love's weak childish bow she lives unharm'd.
From Tamworth thither is but one day's march.
From all the impure blots and stains thereof;
From all the slaughters, wretch, that thou hast done!
From ancient grudge break to new mutiny,
From forth day's path and Titan's fiery wheels.
From forth the fatal loins of these two foes
From forth the kennel of thy womb hath crept
From my Redeemer to redeem me hence;
From off the battlements of yonder tower,
From that contented hap which I enjoy'd,
From the corruption of abusing times
From the dead temples of this bloody wretch
From this earth's thraldom to the joys of heaven.
From wayward sickness and no grounded malice.
From which even here I slip my weary head
Frozen almost to death, how he did lap me
Full soon the canker death eats up that plant.
Gentlemen, for shame! forbear this outrage!
Gentlemen, good den. A word with one of you.
Get thee to bed, and rest; for thou hast need.
Get you to bed! Faith, you'll be sick to-morrow
Give Mistress Shore one gentle kiss the more.
Give me a case to put my visage in.
Give me my Romeo; and, when he shall die,
Give me my sin again.                          [Kisses her.]
Give me some ink and paper in my tent.
Give me some ink and paper.
Give me some present counsel; or, behold,
Give me thy hand. 'Tis late. Farewell; good night.
Give mine the benefit of seniory,
Gives token of a goodly day to-morrow.
Gloucester, we have done deeds of charity,
Go before, nurse. Commend me to thy lady,
Go get thee to thy love, as was decreed,
Go in; and tell my lady I am gone,
Go thither, and with unattainted eye
Go thou to Juliet, help to deck up her.
Go waken Juliet; go and trim her up.
Go you to Juliet ere you go to bed;
Go you to him from me.
Go, I'll conduct you to the sanctuary.                Exeunt
Go, bid thy master rise and come to me;
Go, by this token. Rise, and lend thine ear.      [Whispers]
Go, gentlemen, every man unto his charge.
Go, go, dispatch.
Go, hie thee, hie thee from this slaughter-house,
Go, muster men. My counsel is my shield.
Go, then, my mother, to thy daughter go;
Go; I'll to dinner; hie you to the cell.
God and Saint George! Richmond and victory!           Exeunt
God and good angels fight on Richmond's side;
God and our good cause fight upon our side;
God forbid! Where's this girl? What, Juliet!
God give us leisure for these rites of love!
God grant that some, less noble and less loyal,
God grant we never may have need of you!
God join'd my heart and Romeo's, thou our hands;
God keep you from them and from such false friends!
God knows I will not do it to the death.
God knows, in torment and in agony.
God pardon him! I do, with all my heart;
God pardon them that are the cause thereof!
God will in justice ward you as his soldiers;
God will revenge it. Come, lords, will you go
God will revenge it; whom I will importune
God witness with me, I have wept for thine.
God wot;
Gold were as good as twenty orators,
Good Captain Blunt, bear my good night to him,
Good Prudence. Smatter with your gossips, go!
Good angels guard thee from the boar's annoy!
Good angels guard thy battle! Live and flourish!
Good night, good night! As sweet repose and rest
Good night, good night! Parting is such sweet sorrow,
Good night.
Grace;
Grandam, this would have been a biting jest.
Grant me this boon.
Graze where you will, you shall not house with me.
Green earthen pots, bladders, and musty seeds,
Grey?
Griefs of mine own lie heavy in my breast,
Grossly grew captive to his honey words
Ha!
Had I it written, I would tear the word.
Had grac'd the tender temples of my child;
Had part in this fair maid! now heaven hath all,
Had rather have us win than him they follow.
Had she affections and warm youthful blood,
Had so much race to put it in my mind.
Had virtuous uncles to protect his Grace.
Hadst thou no poison mix'd, no sharp-ground knife,
Happiness courts thee in her best array;
Happy were England would this virtuous prince
Hark ye, your Romeo will be here at night.
Harry the Sixth bids thee despair and die.
Harry, that prophesied thou shouldst be King,
Has almost overta'en him in his growth.
Hast thou met with him? Send thy man away.
Hast thou no letters to me from the friar?
Hast thou slain Tybalt? Wilt thou slay thyself?
Hastings and Rivers, take each other's hand;
Hath Death lain with thy wife. See, there she lies,
Hath Romeo slain himself? Say thou but 'I,'
Hath any well-advised friend proclaim'd
Hath been my kinsman. O sweet Juliet,
Hath dimm'd your infant morn to aged night.
Hath he set bounds between their love and me?
Hath he so long held out with me, untir'd,
Hath in eternal darkness folded up.
Hath in the tables of his law commanded
Hath not so green, so quick, so fair an eye
Hath not yet div'd into the world's deceit;
Hath sent a letter to his father's house.
Hath she forgot already that brave prince,
Hath slain ten thousand Tybalts. Tybalt's death
Hath sorted out a sudden day of joy
Hath turn'd my feigned prayer on my head
Hath twice done salutation to the morn;
Hath wash'd thy sallow cheeks for Rosaline!
Have I pluck'd off, to grace thy brows withal.
Have I since your departure had, my lords.
Have any time recourse unto the Princes.                Exit
Have at thee, coward!                            They fight.
Have aught committed that is hardly borne
Have been beholding to him in his life;
Have done a drunken slaughter and defac'd
Have in their own land beaten, bobb'd, and thump'd,
Have made it tedious, wearisome, and heavy.
Have mercy, Jesu! Soft! I did but dream.
Have not to do with him, beware of him;
Have stuck more terror to the soul of Richard
Have taken sanctuary. The tender Prince
Have thrice disturb'd the quiet of our streets
Have told me, I being by, that I should kill him?
Have we march'd on without impediment;
Have you delivered to her our decree?
Having God, her conscience, and these bars against me,
Having bought love with such a bloody spoil.
Having displeas'd my father, to Laurence' cell,
Having no more but thought of what thou wast
Having some business, do entreat her eyes
He dreamt the boar had razed off his helm.
He fears, my lord, you mean no good to him.
He heareth not, he stirreth not, be moveth not;
He is all the mother's, from the top to toe.
He is frank'd up to fatting for his pains;
He is my son; ay, and therein my shame;
He is not lolling on a lewd love-bed,
He is within, with two right reverend fathers,
He knows no more of mine than I of yours;
He lent me counsel, and I lent him eyes.
He little thought of this divided friendship.
He liv'd from all attainder of suspects.
He made you for a highway to my bed;
He makes for England here to claim the crown.
He needs no indirect or lawless course
He prettily and aptly taunts himself.
He sends you not to murder me for this,
He shall not make me there a joyful bride!
He shift a trencher! he scrape a trencher!
He should espouse Elizabeth her daughter.
He should have brav'd the east an hour ago.
He swung about his head and cut the winds,
He that is strucken blind cannot forget
He thinks that you should bear me on your shoulders.
He was the wretched'st thing when he was young,
He wonders to what end you have assembled
He'll fright you up, i' faith. Will it not be?
Hear me with patience but to speak a word.
Hear me, you wrangling pirates, that fall out
Hear you the news abroad?
Heaven and fortune bar me happy hours!
Heir to the crown-meaning indeed his house,
Held in contempt; while great promotions
Helen and Hero hildings and harlots, This be a gray eye or so,
Help nothing else, yet do they case the heart.
Help, help! Call help.
Hence banished is banish'd from the world,
Hence both are gone with conscience and remorse
Hence will I to my ghostly father's cell,
Henceforth I never will be Romeo.
Henceforward I am ever rul'd by you.
Henceforward do your messages yourself.
Her blood is settled, and her joints are stiff;
Her body sleeps in Capel's monument,
Her chariot is an empty hazelnut,
Her collars, of the moonshine's wat'ry beams;
Her eye discourses; I will answer it.
Her face defac'd with scars of infamy,
Her mother is the lady of the house.
Her royal stock graft with ignoble plants,
Her traces, of the smallest spider's web;
Her uncle Rivers; ay, and for her sake
Her vestal livery is but sick and green,
Her wagon spokes made of long spinners' legs,
Her wagoner, a small grey-coated gnat,
Her whip, of cricket's bone; the lash, of film;
Here are the beetle brows shall blush for me.
Here comes Sir Richard Ratcliff and the Duke.
Here comes the lady. O, so light a foot
Here in Verona, ladies of esteem,
Here in my house do him disparagement.
Here in these confines slily have I lurk'd
Here in this city visiting the sick,
Here lives a caitiff wretch would sell it him.'
Here's a good world the while! Who is so gros
Here's much to do with hate, but more with love.
Hereafter time, for time past wrong'd by thee.
Herself pois'd with herself in either eye;
Herself, the land, and many a Christian soul,
Hie you to church; I must another way,
Hie you, make haste, for it grows very late.           Exit.
High-reaching Buckingham grows circumspect.
His Grace not being warn'd thereof before,
His agile arm beats down their fatal points,
His ancient knot of dangerous adversaries
His answer was, the people were not used
His curses then from bitterness of soul
His daughter meanly have I match'd in marriage;
His fault concludes but what the law should end,
His gracious pleasure any way therein.
His help to crave and my dear hap to tell.
His honour and myself are at the one,
His horse is slain, and all on foot he fights,
His lordship knows me well and loves me well.
His master's child, as worshipfully he terms it,
His regiment lies half a mile at least
His son is thirty.
His son was but a ward two years ago.
His tyranny for trifles; his own bastardy,
His venom tooth will rankle to the death:
His wit set down to make his valour live.
Hither to London, to be crown'd our King.
Hois'd sail, and made his course again for Britaine.
Hold me a foe-
Hold, Tybalt! Good Mercutio!
Hold, there is forty ducats. Let me have
Holy King Henry, and thy fair son Edward,
Hood my unmann'd blood, bating in my cheeks,
Hover about me with your airy wings
How can we aid you with our kindred tears?
How do I thank thee that this carnal cur
How doth my lady? Is my father well?
How doth the Prince, and my young son of York?
How fain, like Pilate, would I wash my hands
How far I am from the desire of this.
How far into the morning is it, lords?
How fares my Juliet? That I ask again,
How he doth stand affected to our purpose;
How if, when I am laid into the tomb,
How is't, my soul? Let's talk; it is not day.
How long is't now since last yourself and I
How many of you have mine eyes beheld!
How much salt water thrown away in waste,
How nice the quarrel was, and urg'd withal
How now! what news?
How now, Hastings! How goes the world with thee?
How now, Lord Stanley! What's the news?
How now, my hardy stout resolved mates!
How now? a conduit, girl? What, still in tears?
How shall that faith return again to earth
How silver-sweet sound lovers' tongues by night,
How stands your disposition to be married?
How that the guilty kindred of the Queen
How? Will she none? Doth she not give us thanks?
Howling attends it! How hast thou the heart,
Hunting thee hence with hunt's-up to the day!
I am a villain; yet I lie, I am not.
I am afraid, methinks, to hear you tell it.
I am bound by oath, and therefore pardon me.            Exit
I am content, so thou wilt have it so.
I am his brother, and I love him well.
I am in your debt for your last exercise;
I am no pilot; yet, wert thou as far
I am not I, if there be such an 'I';
I am not barren to bring forth complaints.
I am not in the giving vein to-day.
I am the drudge, and toil in your delight;
I am their mother; who shall bar me from them?
I am too bold; 'tis not to me she speaks.
I am too childish-foolish for this world.
I am too young, I pray you pardon me'!
I am unfit for state and majesty.
I bade her come. What, lamb! what ladybird!
I bear no hatred, blessed man, for, lo,
I beg for justice, which thou, Prince, must give.
I bid them that did love their country's good
I bring thee tidings of the Prince's doom.
I call'd thee then poor shadow, painted queen,
I came to talk of. Tell me, daughter Juliet,
I can no longer hold me patient.                 [Advancing]
I cannot bound a pitch above dull woe.
I cannot choose but ever weep the friend.
I cannot make you what amends I would,
I cannot nor I will not yield to you.
I charge thee in the Prince's name obey.
I charge you, as you hope to have redemption
I come from Lady Juliet.
I conjure only but to raise up him.
I conjure thee by Rosaline's bright eyes.
I could have given my uncle's Grace a flout
I crave your blessing.
I dare adventure to be sent to th' Tow'r.
I did not see your Grace. Humbly on my knee
I do beseech thee-
I do beseech you send for some of them.
I do beseech you, take it not amiss:
I do beseech your Grace to pardon me,
I do beweep to many simple gulls;
I do lament the sickness of the King,
I do mistake my person all this while.
I do not know that Englishman alive
I do not like these several councils, I.
I do remember an apothecary,
I dreamt my lady came and found me dead
I drew to part them. In the instant came
I every day expect an embassage
I fear it is; and yet methinks it should not,
I fear our happiness is at the height.
I fear, I fear 'twill prove a giddy world.
I for a Clarence weep, so doth not she.
I for an Edward weep, so do not they.
I give a sparing limit to my tongue.
I had a Rutland too, thou holp'st to kill him.
I had a husband, till a Richard kill'd him:
I had an Edward, till a Richard kill'd him;
I had rather be a country servant-maid
I hate it, and desire all good men's love.
I hate not you for her proud arrogance.
I have a faint cold fear thrills through my veins
I have an interest in your hate's proceeding,
I have been feasting with mine enemy,
I have been long a sleeper, but I trust
I have bewept a worthy husband's death,
I have forgot that name, and that name's woe.
I have forgot why I did call thee back.
I have more care to stay than will to go.
I have no joy of this contract to-night.
I have not sounded him, nor he deliver'd
I have not that alacrity of spirit
I have rememb'red me, thou's hear our counsel.
I have sent for these strawberries.
I hear him near.
I hear some noise within. Dear love, adieu!
I hear thou must, and nothing may prorogue it,
I hope he is much grown since last I saw him.
I know not how to tell thee who I am.
I lay it naked to the deadly stroke,
I lay unto the grievous charge of others.
I like you, lads; about your business straight;
I live to look upon their tragedy.
I marvel that her Grace did leave it out.
I may not suffer you to visit them.
I mean his conversation with Shore's wife-
I mean that with my soul I love thy daughter
I mean, your voice for crowning of the King.
I moralize two meanings in one word.
I must be gone and live, or stay and die.
I must be held a rancorous enemy.
I must be married to my brother's daughter,
I must have patience to endure the load;
I must hear from thee every day in the hour,
I must needs wake you. Lady! lady! lady!
I must up-fill this osier cage of ours
I needs must wake her. Madam, madam, madam!
I never did incense his Majesty
I never look'd for better at his hands
I never should forget it. 'Wilt thou not, Jule?' quoth he,
I never sued to friend nor enemy;
I never was nor never will be false.
I now repent I told the pursuivant,
I nurs'd her daughter that you talk'd withal.
I pass'd, methought, the melancholy flood
I pray thee leave me to myself to-night;
I pray you tell my lord and father, madam,
I promise you my soul is very jocund
I promise you, but for your company,
I prophesy the fearfull'st time to thee
I saw good strawberries in your garden there.
I saw her laid low in her kindred's vault
I say, my lord, they have deserved death.
I see, as in a map, the end of all.
I sell thee poison; thou hast sold me none.
I shall despair. There is no creature loves me;
I shall return before your lordship thence.
I should have been more strange, I must confess,
I should not live long after I saw Richmond.
I tell thee what- get thee to church a Thursday
I tell you, he that can lay hold of her
I tender not thy beauteous princely daughter.
I thank my God for my humility.
I thank you, honest gentlemen. Good night.
I think it best you married with the County.
I think the Duke will not be spoke withal.
I think there be six Richmonds in the field;
I think there's never a man in Christendom
I think you are happy in this second match,
I thought my mother and my brother York
I thought thy disposition better temper'd.
I to my grave, where peace and rest lie with me!
I took him for the plainest harmless creature
I trembling wak'd, and for a season after
I wake before the time that Romeo
I want more uncles here to welcome me.
I warrant, an I should live a thousand yeas,
I was a pack-horse in his great affairs,
I was too hot to do somebody good
I was your mother much upon these years
I will avouch't in presence of the King.
I will be deaf to pleading and excuses;
I will carry no crotchets. I'll re you, I'll fa you. Do you note
I will confess she was not Edward's daughter.
I will lead forth my soldiers to the plain,
I will maintain it with some little cost.
I will not be thy executioner.
I will not budge for no man's pleasure,
I will not dine until I see the same.
I will not entertain so bad a thought.
I will not marry yet; and when I do, I swear
I will not reason what is meant hereby,
I will omit no opportunity
I will resolve you herein presently.                    Exit
I will take order for her keeping close.
I will with all expedient duty see you.
I will withdraw; but this intrusion shall,
I wish'd might fall on me when I was found
I wonder at this haste, that I must wed
I would adventure for such merchandise.
I would be so triumphant as I am?
I would have been abed an hour ago.
I would not for the wealth of all this town
I would not spend another such a night
I would say thou hadst suck'd wisdom from thy teat.
I would the fool were married to her grave!
I would these dewy tears were from the ground.
I would to God all strifes were well compounded.
I would to God my heart were flint like Edward's,
I'll be a candle-holder and look on;
I'll be at charges for a looking-glass,
I'll call them back again to comfort me.
I'll draw the form and model of our battle,
I'll drown you in the malmsey-butt within.
I'll find those that shall. Scurvy knave! I am none of his
I'll frown, and be perverse, and say thee nay,
I'll go and chat with Paris. Hie, make haste,
I'll have her; but I will not keep her long.
I'll have this knot knit up to-morrow morning.
I'll join with black despair against my soul
I'll know his grievance, or be much denied.
I'll make you quiet; what!- Cheerly, my hearts!
I'll muster up my friends and meet your Grace
I'll not endure him.
I'll not to bed to-night; let me alone.
I'll play the housewife for this once. What, ho!
I'll say yon grey is not the morning's eye,
I'll send some packing that yet think not on't.
I'll strive with troubled thoughts to take a nap,
I'll tell thee as we pass; but this I pray,
I'll tell you what, my cousin Buckingham-
I'll to him; he is hid at Laurence' cell.
I'll to my rest.
I'll to the King and signify to him
I'll to the friar to know his remedy.
I'll warrant you, when I say so, she looks as pale as any clout
I'll win our ancient right in France again,
I, as I may-that which I would I cannot-
I, as a child, will go by thy direction.
I- measuring his affections by my own,
If God will be avenged for the deed,
If I be so disgracious in your eye,
If I did take the kingdom from your sons,
If I have kill'd the issue of your womb,
If I may counsel you, some day or two
If I revolt, off goes young George's head;
If I unwittingly, or in my rage,
If all else fail, myself have power to die.            Exit.
If any of my kinsmen find thee here.
If be be slain, say 'I'; or if not, 'no.'
If by the way they be not fought withal.
If e'er thou wast thyself, and these woes thine,
If ever any grudge were lodg'd between us;
If ever you disturb our streets again,
If good, thou shamest the music of sweet news
If grace had bless'd thee with a fairer life.
If he be leaden, icy, cold, unwilling,
If heaven have any grievous plague in store
If in thy wisdom thou canst give no help,
If no inconstant toy nor womanish fear
If not that, I am Queen, you bow like subjects,
If not to answer, you might haply think
If not to bless us and the land withal,
If not to fight with foreign enemies,
If not to heaven, then hand in hand to hell.
If she deny, Lord Hastings, go with him
If something thou wouldst swear to be believ'd,
If sorrow can admit society,        [Sitting down with them]
If that our noble father were alive?
If that thy bent of love be honourable,
If that your moody discontented souls
If they were his assistants, yea or no;
If this inducement move her not to love,
If thou art Dun, we'll draw thee from the mire
If thou art fickle, what dost thou with him
If thou art taken. Hence, be gone, away!
If thou didst fear to break an oath with Him,
If thou dost find him tractable to us,
If thou dost love, pronounce it faithfully.
If thou hadst fear'd to break an oath by Him,
If thou wilt outstrip death, go cross the seas,
If thy revengeful heart cannot forgive,
If to reprove you for this suit of yours,
If two such murderers as yourselves came to you,
If we be conquered, let men conquer us,
If what thou speak'st speak not of remedy.
If yet your gentle souls fly in the air
If you are hir'd for meed, go back again,
If you deny them, all the land will rue it.
If you do fight against your country's foes,
If you do fight in safeguard of your wives,
If you do free your children from the sword,
If you do sweat to put a tyrant down,
If you will live, lament; if die, be brief,
If you will presently take horse with him
If, rather than to marry County Paris
Imagine I have said farewell already.
Immaculate devotion, holy thoughts,
Immediately we do exile him hence.
In God's name cheerly on, courageous friends,
In God's name speak-when is the royal day?
In Margaret's battle at Saint Albans slain?
In all her best array bear her to church;
In all respects by me; nay more, I doubt it not.
In brief, for so the season bids us be,
In carrion flies than Romeo. They may seize
In common worldly things 'tis called ungrateful
In deep designs, in matter of great moment,
In fair Verona, where we lay our scene,
In half an hour she 'promis'd to return.
In her consists my happiness and thine;
In him that did object the same to thee.
In lasting labour of his pilgrimage!
In man as well as herbs- grace and rude will;
In mortal paradise of such sweet flesh?
In my behalf- my reputation stain'd
In my opinion, ought to be prevented.
In one respect I'll thy assistant be;
In penalty alike; and 'tis not hard, I think,
In plants, herbs, stones, and their true qualities;
In quarrel of the house of Lancaster.
In sadness, cousin, I do love a woman.
In shape no bigger than an agate stone
In sharing that which you have pill'd from me.
In sign of league and amity with thee.
In such a gorgeous palace!
In tatt'red weeds, with overwhelming brows,
In that dim monument where Tybalt lies.
In that word's death; no words can that woe sound.
In the main battle, whose puissance on either side
In the mean time, against thou shalt awake,
In the remembrance of so fair a dream.
In the seat royal of this famous isle?
In thee at once; which thou at once wouldst lose.
In these confusions. Heaven and yourself
In this just cause come I to move your Grace.
In this resolve. I'll send a friar with speed
In this so sudden business.
In thy best robes uncovered on the bier
In to my tent; the dew is raw and cold.
In truth, fair Montague, I am too fond,
In weightier things you'll say a beggar nay.
In what vile part of this anatomy
In your behalf, to meet you on the way.
In your embowell'd bosoms-this foul swine
Incapable and shallow innocents,
Indeed, left nothing fitting for your purpose
Inestimable stones, unvalued jewels,
Infer the bastardy of Edward's children.
Inherit at my house. Hear all, all see,
Inquire me out some mean poor gentleman,
Inspire us with the spleen of fiery dragons!
Insulting tyranny begins to jet
Intending deep suspicion. Ghastly looks
Into the blind cave of eternal night.           Exit CATESBY
Into the fatal bowels of the deep.
Into the tumbling billows of the main.
Is Romeo slaught'red, and is Tybalt dead?
Is Rosaline, that thou didst love so dear,
Is all unknown to me, my gracious lord.
Is but a little way above our heads,
Is colder tidings, yet they must be told.
Is death misterm'd. Calling death 'banishment,'
Is death to any he that utters them.
Is fair and honest: in his mistress' name,
Is father, mother, Tybalt, Romeo, Juliet,
Is he gone and hath nothing?
Is in the field, and still his power increaseth.
Is it e'en so? Why then, I thank you all.
Is it more sin to wish me thus forsworn,
Is leaden servitor to dull delay;
Is lighted on poor Hastings' wretched head!
Is like a blasted sapling wither'd up.
Is loathsome in his own deliciousness
Is longer than the tale thou dost excuse.
Is my dear son with such sour company.
Is my poor heart so for a kinsman vex'd.
Is not the causer of the timeless deaths
Is now even in the centre of this isle,
Is now the two hours' traffic of our stage;
Is put unto the trust of Richard Gloucester,
Is she not down so late, or up so early?
Is she not proud? Doth she not count her blest,
Is that by sudden floods and fall of waters
Is the King dead, the empire unpossess'd?
Is the determin'd respite of my wrongs;
Is there a murderer here? No-yes, I am.
Is this of hers? Lord Cardinal, will your Grace
Is this the poultice for my aching bones?
Is this thy vow unto my sickly heart.
Is three long hours; yet she is not come.
Is thy name Tyrrel?
Is thy news good or bad? Answer to that.
Is to determine of the coronation.
Is to himself- I will not say how true-
Is with a mighty power landed at Milford
It back to Tybalt, whose dexterity
It beats as it would fall in twenty pieces.
It best agrees with night. Come, civil night,
It cannot be avoided but by this;
It cannot countervail the exchange of joy
It helps not, it prevails not. Talk no more.
It is enough I may but call her mine.
It is my lady; O, it is my love!
It is my will; the which if thou respect,
It is some meteor that the sun exhales
It is the East, and Juliet is the sun!
It is the lark that sings so out of tune,
It is too rash, too unadvis'd, too sudden;
It is turn'd out of towns and cities for a dangerous thing;
It may be thought we held him carelessly,
It rains downright.
It seems she hangs upon the cheek of night
It shall be Romeo, whom you know I hate,
It strains me past the compass of my wits.
It was the nightingale, and not the lark,
It were a grief so brief to part with thee.
It were lost sorrow to wail one that's lost.
It will not be avoided but by this.
It's nine o'clock.
Italy; and as soon moved to be moody, and as soon moody to be
Iwis your grandam had a worser match.
Jesu Maria! What a deal of brine
John Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Earl of Surrey,
Jove's Mercury, and herald for a king!
Juliet, on Thursday early will I rouse ye.
Juliet, the County stays.
Just in her case!
Just opposite to what thou justly seem'st-
Killing that love which thou hast vow'd to cherish;
King Henry's issue, Richmond, comforts thee.
King forbids.
King,
King.
King?
Kings it makes gods, and meaner creatures kings.      Exeunt
Kneel'd at my feet, and bid me be advis'd?
Laid open all your victories in Scotland,
Lash hence these over-weening rags of France,
Last longer telling than thy kindness' date.
Lately attendant on the Duke of Norfolk.
Leads discontented steps in foreign soil,
Leap to these arms untalk'd of and unseen.
Leave me and do the thing I bid thee do.
Led in the hand of her kind aunt of Gloucester?
Lend favourable ear to our requests,
Lest He that is the supreme King of kings
Lest I revenge. What, myself upon myself!
Lest in this marriage he should be dishonour'd
Lest leaden slumber peise me down to-morrow
Lest that thy love prove likewise variable.
Lest thou increase the number of the dead,
Lest to thy harm thou move our patience.
Lest, being seen, thy brother, tender George,
Let fall thy lance. Despair and die!
Let him be crown'd; in him your comfort lives.
Let me be satisfied, is't good or bad?
Let me march on and not offend you, madam.
Let me put in your minds, if you forget,
Let not our babbling dreams affright our souls;
Let not the heavens hear these tell-tale women
Let not the nurse lie with thee in thy chamber.
Let them have scope; though what they will impart
Let them not live to taste this land's increase
Let two more summers wither in their pride
Let us be lead within thy bosom, Richard,
Let us consult upon to-morrow's business.
Let us survey the vantage of the ground.
Let's lack no discipline, make no delay;
Let's see for means. O mischief, thou art swift
Let's whip these stragglers o'er the seas again;
Letters to Richmond, you shall answer it.
Lies fest'ring in his shroud; where, as they say,
Lies my consent and fair according voice.
Life and these lips have long been separated.
Lifts me above the ground with cheerful thoughts.
Like a poor bark, of sails and tackling reft,
Like a poor prisoner in his twisted gyves,
Like a rich jewel in an Ethiop's ear-
Like damned guilty deeds to sinners' minds!
Like death when he shuts up the day of life;
Like high-rear'd bulwarks, stand before our faces;
Like powder in a skilless soldier's flask,
Like softest music to attending ears!
Like trees bedash'd with rain-in that sad time
Limit each leader to his several charge,
Lines of fair comfort and encouragement.
Live each of you the subjects to his hate,
Live here in heaven and may look on her;
Live, and beget a happy race of kings!
Lives like a drunken sailor on a mast,
Lo here I lend thee this sharp-pointed sword;
Lo, ere I can repeat this curse again,
Lo, here upon thy cheek the stain doth sit
Lo, here, this long-usurped royalty
Loath to depose the child, your brother's son;
London,
Long die thy happy days before thy death;
Long kept in Britaine at our mother's cost?
Long live King Richard, England's worthy King!
Long mayest thou live to wail thy children's death,
Look for the news that the Guildhall affords.           Exit
Look how I am bewitch'd; behold, mine arm
Look how thou dream'st! I say again, give out
Look on my forces with a gracious eye;
Look that my staves be sound, and not too heavy.
Look to the bak'd meats, good Angelica;
Look to't, think on't; I do not use to jest.
Look when he fawns, he bites; and when he bites,
Look you, she lov'd her kinsman Tybalt dearly,
Look'd pale when they did hear of Clarence' death?
Look, sir, here comes the lady toward my cell.
Lord Hastings will not yield to our complots?
Lord Hastings, you and he are near in love.
Lord! she will be a joyful woman.
Lord.
Lord?
Lord?
Lords?
Love goes toward love as schoolboys from their books;
Love is a smoke rais'd with the fume of sighs;
Love, charity, obedience, and true duty!
Lovel and Ratcliff, look that it be done.
Lovers can see to do their amorous rites
Mad'st quick conveyance with her good aunt Anne.
Madam, and you, my sister, will you go
Madam, farewell.
Madam, good night. Commend me to your daughter.
Madam, if you could find out but a man
Madam, my mother, I do cry you mercy;
Made by the joiner squirrel or old grub,
Made him my book, wherein my soul recorded
Made peace of enmity, fair love of hate,
Made prize and purchase of his wanton eye,
Maintains such falsehood, then turn tears to fires;
Make a short shrift; he longs to see your head.
Make bold her bashful years with your experience;
Make haste! The bridegroom he is come already:
Make haste, I say.
Make us Thy ministers of chastisement,
Make war upon themselves-brother to brother,
Makes him to send that he may learn the ground.
Makes me most forward in this princely presence
Makes my flesh tremble in their different greeting.
Makes the night morning and the noontide night.
Making them women of good carriage.
Many for many virtues excellent,
March on, join bravely, let us to it pell-mell;
Marquis.
Marry, and amen. How sound is she asleep!
Marry, as for Clarence, he is well repaid;
Marry, go before to field, he'll be your follower!
Maskers, Torchbearers, Pages, Guards, Watchmen, Servants, and
Master Lieutenant, pray you, by your leave,
Match'd not the high perfection of my loss.
May be put from her by society.
May move your hearts to pity, if you mark him.
May prove a beauteous flow'r when next we meet.
May send forth plenteous tears to drown the world!
May stand in number, though in reck'ning none.
Me seemeth good that, with some little train,
Meantime, but think how I may do thee good
Meet me within this hour at Baynard's Castle.
Melted with tenderness and mild compassion,
Men shall deal unadvisedly sometimes,
Mercy but murders, pardoning those that kill.
Methinks I see thee, now thou art below,
Methinks the truth should Eve from age to age,
Methought that Gloucester stumbled, and in falling
Methought the souls of all that I had murder'd
Methought their souls whose bodies Richard murder'd
Methoughts I saw a thousand fearful wrecks,
Mine issue of your blood upon your daughter.
Misconster us in him and wail his death.
Misshapen chaos of well-seeming forms!
Misshapen in the conduct of them both,
Mist-like infold me from the search of eyes.          Knock.
Misus'd ere us'd, by times ill-us'd o'erpast.
Montagues.
More bitterly could I expostulate,
More honourable state, more courtship lives
More light, you knaves! and turn the tables up,
More mild, but yet more harmful-kind in hatred.
More miserable by the life of thee
More than I have said, loving countrymen,
More than my brother. 'Ay,' quoth my uncle Gloucester
More than the infant that is born to-night.
More than to Richmond? For the selfsame heaven
More torches here! [Exeunt Maskers.] Come on then, let's to bed.
Moreover, urge his hateful luxury
Most detestable Death, by thee beguil'd,
Most lamentable day, most woful day
Most miserable hour that e'er time saw
Move them no more by crossing their high will.
Much about cock-shut time, from troop to troop
Much more than death. Do not say 'banishment.'
Much more to be thus opposite with heaven,
Murder her brothers, and then marry her!
Murder thy breath in middle of a word,
Murder'd her kinsman. O, tell me, friar, tell me,
Murder, stern murder, in the dir'st degree;
Must be my convoy in the secret night.
Must climb a bird's nest soon when it is dark.
Must gently be preserv'd, cherish'd, and kept.
My Lord of Oxford-you, Sir William Brandon-
My Lord of Surrey, why look you so sad?
My absence doth neglect no great design
My babes were destin'd to a fairer death,
My back o' t' other side,- ah, my back, my back!
My blood for your rude brawls doth lie a-bleeding;
My bosom's lord sits lightly in his throne,
My bounty is as boundless as the sea,
My brother killed no man-his fault was thought,
My charity is outrage, life my shame;
My child is yet a stranger in the world,
My conceal'd lady to our cancell'd love?
My conscience hath a thousand several tongues,
My damned son that thy two sweet sons smother'd.
My daughter he hath wedded. I will die
My dear-lov'd cousin, and my dearer lord?
My dismal scene I needs must act alone.
My dreams presage some joyful news at hand.
My dukedom to a beggarly denier,
My fingers itch. Wife, we scarce thought us blest
My foreward shall be drawn out all in length,
My friend, I spy some pity in thy looks;
My grandam told me he was murder'd there.
My grave is like to be my wedding bed.
My house and welcome on their pleasure stay-
My husband is on earth, my faith in heaven.
My husband lives, that Tybalt would have slain;
My husband lost his life to get the crown;
My intercession likewise steads my foe.
My letter will resolve him of my mind.
My life were better ended by their hate
My lips, two blushing pilgrims, ready stand
My lord and you were then at Mantua.
My lord of Ely, when I was last in Holborn
My lord, I'll tell my lady you will come.
My lord, we must entreat the time alone.
My lord, you do me shameful injury
My love as deep; the more I give to thee,
My manly eyes did scorn an humble tear;
My name, dear saint, is hateful to myself,
My oracle, my prophet, my dear cousin,
My part thereof that I have done to her.
My prayers on the adverse party fight;
My princely father then had wars in France
My proud heart sues, and prompts my tongue to speak.
My son George Stanley is frank'd up in hold;
My soul is heavy, and I fain would sleep.
My sovereign lord, I do beseech your Highness
My tongue could never learn sweet smoothing word;
My tongue should to thy ears not name my boys
My true-love passion. Therefore pardon me,
My unblown flowers, new-appearing sweets!
My uncle Rivers talk'd how I did grow
My very friend, hath got this mortal hurt
My will to her consent is but a part.
My words would bandy her to my sweet love,
Myself and my good cousin Buckingham
Myself disgrac'd, and the nobility
Myself to be a marv'llous proper man.
Namely, to Derby, Hastings, Buckingham;
Nay, I do bear a brain. But, as I said,
Nay, come, I pray thee speak. Good, good nurse, speak.
Nay, do not pause; for I did kill King Henry-
Nay, for a need, thus far come near my person:
Nay, now dispatch; 'twas I that stabb'd young Edward-
Nay, sit, nay, sit, good cousin Capulet,
Ne'er saw her match since first the world begun.
Near to the town of Leicester, as we learn.
Nearer in bloody thoughts, an not in blood,
Need and oppression starveth in thine eyes,
Never was seen so black a day as this.
News from Verona! How now, Balthasar?
Night's candles are burnt out, and jocund day
Nightly she sings on yond pomegranate tree.
No beast so fierce but knows some touch of pity.
No better term than this: thou art a villain.
No doubt the murd'rous knife was dull and blunt
No doubt we bring it to a happy issue.
No doubt, shall then, and till then, govern well.
No excuse current but to hang thyself.
No faith, no honesty in men; all perjur'd,
No less importing than our general good,
No man knows whither.
No more shall be the neighbour to my counsels.
No nightingale. Look, love, what envious streaks
No sleep close up that deadly eye of thine,
No sudden mean of death, though ne'er so mean,
No warmth, no breath, shall testify thou livest;
No, No! This shall forbid it. Lie thou there.
No, when my father York and Edward wept
Non, ere the sun advance his burning eye
None but for some, and yet all different.
Nor I, ungracious, speak unto myself
Nor arm, nor face, nor any other part
Nor aught so good but, strain'd from that fair use,
Nor bide th' encounter of assailing eyes,
Nor cheer of mind that I was wont to have.
Nor more can you distinguish of a man
Nor mother, wife, nor England's counted queen.
Nor no without-book prologue, faintly spoke
Nor none so bad but well may be reported.
Nor ope her lap to saint-seducing gold.
Nor tears nor prayers shall purchase out abuses.
Nor that is not the lark whose notes do beat
Nor thou within the compass of my curse.
Nor what is mine shall never do thee good.
Nor when thy warlike father, like a child,
Nor you, son Dorset; Buckingham, nor you:
Norfolk.
Norfolk?
Northumberland?
Not as protector, steward, substitute,
Not body's death, but body's banishment.
Not dallying with a brace of courtezans,
Not half so big as a round little worm
Not my deserts, but what I will deserve.
Not shine to-day! Why, what is that to me
Not sleeping, to engross his idle body,
Not stepping o'er the bounds of modesty.
Not truly in their hearts, but in their eyes.
Not yet enjoy'd. So tedious is this day
Noting this penury, to myself I said,
Now I have stain'd the childhood of our joy
Now Romeo is belov'd, and loves again,
Now cheer each other in each other's love.
Now civil wounds are stopp'd, peace lives again-
Now comes the wanton blood up in your cheeks:
Now do you know the reason of this haste.
Now fair befall thee and thy noble house!
Now fills thy sleep with perturbations.
Now is the sun upon the highmost hill
Now seeming sweet, convert to bitt'rest gall.          Exit.
Now they believe it, and withal whet me
Now thy proud neck bears half my burden'd yoke,
Now will I go to take some privy order
Now will he sit under a medlar tree
Now, Catesby, what says his Grace?
Now, Catesby, what says your lord to my request?
Now, Tybalt, take the 'villain' back again
Now, afore God, this reverend holy friar,
Now, by the stock and honour of my kin,
Now, for I know the Britaine Richmond aims
Now, for my life, she's wand'ring to the Tower,
Now, nurse, what news? What hast thou there? the cords
Now, sir, her father counts it dangerous
Now, when the bridegroom in the morning comes
Nurse! Wife! What, ho! What, nurse, I say!
Nurse!- What should she do here?
O Buckingham, take heed of yonder dog!
O God that seest it, do not suffer it;
O God! If my deep prayers cannot appease Thee,
O God, I fear thy justice will take hold
O God, she comes! O honey nurse, what news?
O Lord, methought what pain it was to drown,
O Margaret, Margaret, now thy heavy curse
O Prince! O husband! O, the blood is spill'd
O Thou, whose captain I account myself,
O anything, of nothing first create!
O child! O child! my soul, and not my child!
O courteous Tybalt! honest gentleman
O cousin, cousin!
O coward conscience, how dost thou afflict me!
O day! O day! O day! O hateful day!
O dear account! my life is my foe's debt.
O friar, the damned use that word in hell;
O heavy lightness! serious vanity!
O love! O life! not life, but love in death
O my accursed womb, the bed of death!
O nature, what hadst thou to do in hell
O son, the night before thy wedding day
O sweet my mother, cast me not away!
O that I were a glove upon that hand,
O that she knew she were!
O upright, just, and true-disposing God,
O weraday that ever I was born!
O woful day! O woful day!
O'er courtiers' knees, that dream on cursies straight;
O'er ladies' lips, who straight on kisses dream,
O'er lawyers' fingers, who straight dream on fees;
O'ercover'd quite with dead men's rattling bones,
O, I have bought the mansion of a love,
O, Romeo, that she were, O that she were
O, an you will have me live, play 'Heart's ease.'
O, but remember this another day,
O, by this count I shall be much in years
O, full of danger is the Duke of Gloucester!
O, he was gentle, mild, and virtuous!
O, he's a lovely gentleman!
O, if I wake, shall I not be distraught,
O, if thine eye be not a flatterer,
O, in the battle think on Buckingham,
O, in this love, you love your child so ill
O, know you yet He doth it publicly.
O, let me make the period to my curse!
O, let me think on Hastings, and be gone
O, let them keep it till thy sins be ripe,
O, look! methinks I see my cousin's ghost
O, mickle is the powerful grace that lies
O, no! Alas, I rather hate myself
O, now I need the priest that spake to me!
O, now I would they had chang'd voices too,
O, now be gone! More light and light it grows.
O, now let Richmond and Elizabeth,
O, pardon me for bringing these ill news,
O, serve me well, and teach yourselves that duty!
O, she is lame! Love's heralds should be thoughts,
O, she's rich in beauty; only poor
O, sirs, consider: they that set you on
O, spare my guiltless wife and my poor children!
O, speak again, bright angel! for thou art
O, that your young nobility could judge
O, then began the tempest to my soul!
O, they did urge it still unto the King!
O, this same thought did but forerun my need,
O, what a beast was I to chide at him!
O, when, I say, I look'd on Richard's face,
O, would to God that the inclusive verge
Of Buckingham to welcome them ashore.
Of England's chair, where he is falsely set;
Of Tybalt deaf to peace, but that he tilts
Of a despised life, clos'd in my breast,
Of all my buried ancestors are pack'd;
Of all one pain, save for a night of groans
Of all the days of the year, upon that day;
Of an old tear that is not wash'd off yet.
Of blessed sanctuary! Not for all this land
Of bloody strokes and mortal-staring war.
Of breaches, ambuscadoes, Spanish blades,
Of butcher'd princes fight in thy behalf.
Of comfort, kingdom, kindred, freedom, life.
Of damned witchcraft, and that have prevail'd
Of dark forgetfulness and deep oblivion.
Of disobedient opposition
Of fair demesnes, youthful, and nobly train'd,
Of golden metal that must round my brow
Of golden sovereignty; acquaint the Princes
Of healths five fadom deep; and then anon
Of hostile arms! Myself myself confound!
Of ill-shaped fishes; and about his shelves
Of limping Winter treads, even such delight
Of mortals that fall back to gaze on him
Of my Lord Hastings' late imprisonment.
Of my child's love. I think she will be rul'd
Of my dear kinsman! Prince, as thou art true,
Of my dug and felt it bitter, pretty fool,
Of one I danc'd withal.
Of some strange nature, letting it there stand
Of stout Mercutio, and then Tybalt fled;
Of ten times double gain of happiness.
Of that insatiate Edward, noble York
Of that tongue's utterance, yet I know the sound.
Of the young prince your son. Send straight for him;
Of these Plantagenets, Henry and Edward,
Of these known evils but to give me leave
Of these supposed crimes to give me leave
Of this day's journey, and from nine till twelve
Of this most grievous murder!
Of this sir-reverence love, wherein thou stick'st
Of those gross taunts that oft I have endur'd.
Of thy devotion and right Christian zeal.
Of twenty men, it would dispatch you straight.
Of what you promis'd me.
Of yonder knight?
Of you, Lord Woodville, and, Lord Scales, of you;
Of you, and you, Lord Rivers, and of Dorset,
Of you, my noble cousin Buckingham,
Off with his head! Now by Saint Paul I swear
Oft have I heard of sanctuary men;
Old barren plants, to wail it with their age.
On Lammas Eve at night shall she be fourteen;
On Thursday next be married to this County.
On him I lay that you would lay on me-
On me, and you, and mine, and yours, for this!
On me, that halts and am misshapen thus?
On me, whose all not equals Edward's moiety?
On our entreaties, to amend your fault!
On pain of torture, from those bloody hands
On pure heart's love, to greet the tender Princes.
On the fair daughter of rich Capulet;
On the forefinger of an alderman,
On the white wonder of dear Juliet's hand
On thee, the troubler of the poor world's peace!
On this fair corse, and, as the custom is,
Once more, adieu; be valiant, and speed well!
Once more, good night, kind lords and gentlemen.
Once more, on pain of death, all men depart.
Once more, what news?
One desperate grief cures with another's languish.
One fairer than my love? The all-seeing sun
One heav'd a-high to be hurl'd down below,
One more, most welcome, makes my number more.
One nickname for her purblind son and heir,
One of our order, to associate me
One pain is lessoned by another's anguish;
One rais'd in blood, and one in blood establish'd;
One that hath ever been God's enemy.
One that made means to come by what he hath,
One who, to put thee from thy heaviness,
Only for saying he would make his son
Only reserv'd their factor to buy souls
Or Edward's soft and pitiful like mine.
Or I of his, my lord, than you of mine.
Or I shall faint. A plague o' both your houses!
Or I will drag thee on a hurdle thither.
Or I with grief and extreme age shall perish
Or bid me go into a new-made grave
Or bitterly to speak in your reproof
Or by his father there were none at all;
Or by the break of day disguis'd from hence.
Or dedicate his beauty to the sun.
Or die a soldier as I liv'd a king.
Or else I swoon with this dead-killing news!
Or else depart. Here all eyes gaze on us.
Or else his head's assurance is but frail.
Or else my kingdom stands on brittle glass.
Or he that slew her brothers and her uncles?
Or if he do, it needs must be by stealth.
Or if not so, then here I hit it right-
Or if thou thinkest I am too quickly won,
Or if thou wilt, swear by thy gracious self,
Or if you do not, make the bridal bed
Or ill-beseeming beast in seeming both!
Or let me die, to look on death no more!
Or like obedient subjects follow him
Or lowly factor for another's gain;
Or manage it to part these men with me.
Or my true heart with treacherous revolt
Or never after look me in the face.
Or shall I come to you at evening mass
Or shall they last, and we rejoice in them?
Or shall we on without apology?
Or shut me nightly in a charnel house,
Or that we would, against the form of law,
Or thee, or thee, or any of your faction?
Or those eyes shut that make thee answer 'I.'
Or to dispraise my lord with that same tongue
Or walk in thievish ways, or bid me lurk
Or with the clamorous report of war
Or, if I live, is it not very like
Or, if his mind be writ, give me his letter.
Or, if she be accus'd on true report,
Or, if sour woe delights in fellowship
Or, if thou wilt not, be but sworn my love,
Our Romeo hath not been in bed to-night.
Our aery buildeth in the cedar's top,
Our ancient word of courage, fair Saint George,
Our archers shall be placed in the midst.
Our bridal flowers serve for a buried corse;
Our brother is imprison'd by your means,
Our former hatred, so thrive I and mine!
Our instruments to melancholy bells,
Our solemn hymns to sullen dirges change;
Our strong arms be our conscience, swords our law.
Our wedding cheer to a sad burial feast;
Out of my sight! Thou dost infect mine eyes.
Out on her, hilding!
Out, you green-sickness carrion I out, you baggage!
Outlive thy glory, like my wretched self!
Pale, pale as ashes, all bedaub'd in blood,
Peer'd forth the golden window of the East,
Perchance she cannot meet him. That's not so.
Perjury, perjury, in the high'st degree;
Persuade the Queen to send the Duke of York
Piteous predicament!
Pity, you ancient stones, those tender babes
Play the maid's part: still answer nay, and take it.
Play'd for a pair of stainless maidenhoods.
Plead what I will be, not what I have been;
Pleaseth your Majesty to give me leave,
Poison hath residence, and medicine power;
Poor Clarence, by thy guile betray'd to death!
Poor breathing orators of miseries,
Pour all your tears! I am your sorrow's nurse,
Pray God, I say, I prove a needless coward.
Prepare her ears to hear a wooer's tale;
Prepare her, wife, against this wedding day.
Prepare thy battle early in the morning,
Preys on the issue of his mother's body
Prick love for pricking, and you beat love down.
Prick'd from the lazy finger of a maid;
Princes have but their titles for their glories,
Princess.
Proceed thus rashly in the villain's death
Proclaim a pardon to the soldiers fled
Prodigious birth of love it is to me
Profaners of this neighbour-stained steel-
Proportion'd as one's thought would wish a man-
Proud can I never be of what I hate,
Provoke us hither now to slaughter thee.
Pursu'd my humour, not Pursuing his,
Put in her tender heart th' aspiring flame
Put in their hands Thy bruising irons of wrath,
Put up your swords. You know not what you do.
Queen;
Rail on the Lord's anointed. Strike, I say!
Ratcliff!
Ratcliff!
Ratcliff, thyself-or Catesby; where is he?
Rather than Paris. These are news indeed!
Ravish our daughters?  [Drum afar off]  Hark! I hear their
Read o'er the volume of young Paris' face,
Ready to catch each other by the throat,
Ready with every nod to tumble down
Receive in either by this dear encounter.
Relenting fool, and shallow, changing woman!
Rememb'ring how I love thy company.
Remember Margaret was a prophetess.'
Remember whom you are to cope withal-
Remnants of packthread, and old cakes of roses
Repair'd with double riches of content.
Rescue, fair lord, or else the day is lost.
Rest thy unrest on England's lawful earth,    [Sitting down]
Retain that dear perfection which he owes
Retorts it. Romeo he cries aloud,
Revive, look up, or I will die with thee!
Revolts from true birth, stumbling on abuse.
Revolving this will teach thee how to curse.
Reward to him that brings the traitor in?
Richard except, those whom we fight against
Richard loves Richard; that is, I am I.
Richard yet lives, hell's black intelligencer;
Richard's bosom
Richmond in Dorsetshire sent out a boat
Richmond.
Richmond;
Richmond?
Riddling confession finds but riddling shrift.
Rideth a puissant navy; to our shores
Right glad I am he was not at this fray.
Rivers and Dorset, you were standers by,
Rivers that died at Pomfret! Despair and die!
Rivers,
Romeo is banish'd; and all the world to nothing
Romeo is coming.
Romeo slew Tybalt; Romeo must not live.
Romeo that kill'd him, he is banished.
Romeo!
Romeo! humours! madman! passion! lover!
Romeo's a dishclout to him. An eagle, madam,
Romeo, I come! this do I drink to thee.
Romeo, good night. I'll to my truckle-bed;
Romeo, that spoke him fair, bid him bethink
Romeo, will you come to your father's? We'll to dinner thither.
Romeo?
Rough cradle for such little pretty ones.
Rude ragged nurse, old sullen playfellow
Run to my study.- By-and-by!- God's will,
Rush all to pieces on thy rocky bosom.
SECOND MURDERER. Faith, some certain dregs of conscience
Saddle white Surrey for the field to-morrow.
Safe-conducting the rebels from their ships?
Sailing in this salt flood; the winds, thy sighs,
Save that, for reverence to some alive,
Say either, and I'll stay the circumstance.
Say, have I thy consent that they shall die?
Say, uncle Gloucester, if our brother come,
Scaring the ladies like a crowkeeper;
Seal'd up the doors, and would not let us forth,
Seduc'd the pitch and height of his degree
See how she leans her cheek upon her hand!
Seeking for Richmond in the throat of death.
Seeking out Romeo, that did spit his body
Seize on him, Furies, take him unto torment!'
Seldom or never jumpeth with the heart.
Selves of themselves, to your recomforture.
Send her a letter of thy noble deeds;
Set it down. Is ink and paper ready?
Shake, quoth the dovehouse! 'Twas no need, I trow,
Shall I be married then to-morrow morning?
Shall I be plain? I wish the bastards dead.
Shall I not then be stifled in the vault,
Shall I send to thee?
Shall Romeo bear thee hence to Mantua.
Shall Romeo by my letters know our drift;
Shall be the label to another deed,
Shall be this cold corpse on the earth's cold face;
Shall be well winged with our chiefest horse.
Shall bitterly begin his fearful date
Shall come again, transform'd to orient pearl,
Shall for thy love kill a far truer love;
Shall give him such an unaccustom'd dram
Shall happily make thee there a joyful bride.
Shall have the chinks.
Shall have the leading of this foot and horse.
Shall keep his native progress, but surcease;
Shall lose the royalty of England's throne.
Shall play the empire, arbitrating that
Shall these enjoy our lands? lie with our wives,
Shall, stiff and stark and cold, appear like death;
Shalt with him hence.
Sham'd their aspects with store of childish drops-
Shame come to Romeo!
Shame serves thy life and doth thy death attend.        Exit
Sharp misery had worn him to the bones;
She I'll swear hath corns. Am I come near ye now?
She could have run and waddled all about;
She for an Edward weeps, and so do I:
She hath forsworn to love, and in that vow
She hath had too much wrong; and I repent
She hath not seen the change of fourteen years;
She is not fourteen. How long is it now
She is the fairies' midwife, and she comes
She is the hopeful lady of my earth.
She is too fair, too wise, wisely too fair,
She may do more, sir, than denying that:
She may help you to many fair preferments
She shall be married to this noble earl.
She speaks, yet she says nothing. What of that?
She was too good for me. But, as I said,
She will not stay the siege of loving terms,
She would be as swift in motion as a ball;
She's not well married that lives married long,
Shine out, fair sun, till I have bought a glass,
Shot from the deadly level of a gun,
Should all but answer for that peevish brat?
Should be so tyrannous and rough in proof!
Should in the farthest East bean to draw
Should without eyes see pathways to his will!
Show a fair presence and put off these frowns,
Show me a mistress that is passing fair,
Shut up in Prison, kept without my food,
Shuts up his windows, locks fair daylight
Sin, death, and hell, have set their marks on him,
Since I am crept in favour with myself,
Since I have made my friends at peace on earth.
Since arm from arm that voice doth us affray,
Since birth and heaven and earth, all three do meet
Since every Jack became a gentleman,
Since this same wayward girl is so reclaim'd.
Since you did leave it for my office, sir.
Since you will buckle fortune on my back,
Sinfully pluck'd, and not a man of you
Sir Edward Courtney and the haughty prelate,
Sir Robert Brakenbury, and Sir William Brandon.
Sir Thomas Vaughan, prisoners.
Sir William Brandon, you shall bear my standard.
Sirrah, go hire me twenty cunning cooks.
Sitting in the sun under the dovehouse wall.
Slander myself as false to Edward's bed,
Sleep for a week; for the next night, I warrant,
Sleeping and waking, O, defend me still!            [Sleeps]
Small joy have I in being England's Queen.
Smile heaven upon this fair conjunction,
Smile in men's faces, smooth, deceive, and cog,
So I by that; it is my day, my life.
So I might live one hour in your sweet bosom.
So Romeo would, were he not Romeo call'd,
So cunning and so young is wonderful.
So early waking- what with loathsome smells,
So early walking did I see your son.
So fairly bound? O, that deceit should dwell
So far from sounding and discovery,
So far in blood that sin will pluck on sin.
So foolish sorrows bids your stones farewell.         Exeunt
So from thy soul's love didst thou love her brothers,
So full of dismal terror was the time!
So full of fearful dreams, of ugly sights,
So in the Lethe of thy angry soul
So long a-growing and so leisurely
So loving-jealous of his liberty.
So many thousand times? Go, counsellor!
So mighty and so many my defects,
So much for that. The silent hours steal on,
So please you, let me now be left alone,
So say we too, but not by Edward's wife;
So season'd with your faithful love to me,
So shall you share all that he doth possess,
So she may live unscarr'd of bleeding slaughter,
So should we you, if you should be our king.
So shows a snowy dove trooping with crows
So smooth he daub'd his vice with show of virtue
So soon forsaken? Young men's love then lies
So soon to bid good morrow to thy bed.
So stakes me to the ground I cannot move.
So stumblest on my counsel?
So sweet is zealous contemplation.
So that between their tides and low name
So that my speed to Mantua there was stay'd.
So thou wilt woo; but else, not for the world.
So thrive I in my dangerous affairs
So worthy a gentleman to be her bridegroom?
So, get thee gone; commend me to thy lord.
Sojourn in Mantua. I'll find out your man,
Sole monarch of the universal earth.
Some aqua-vitae, ho! My lord! my lady!
Some comfort, nurse.
Some consequence, yet hanging in the stars,
Some five-and-twenty years, and then we mask'd.
Some lay in dead men's skulls, and in the holes
Some means to come to shrift this afternoon;
Some misadventure.
Some one take order Buckingham be brought
Some patient leisure to excuse myself.
Some say the lark and loathed toad chang'd eyes;
Some say the lark makes sweet division;
Some tardy cripple bare the countermand
Some twenty of them fought in this black strife,
Some word there was, worser than Tybalt's death,
Something against our meanings, have prevented-
Sometime she gallops o'er a courtier's nose,
Sometimes she driveth o'er a soldier's neck,
Soon sleep in quiet. O, how my heart abhors
Sound drums and trumpets boldly and cheerfully;
South from the mighty power of the King.
Spare not for cost.
Speak and look back, and pry on every side,
Speak but one rhyme, and I am satisfied!
Speak it again, and even with the word
Speak not, reply not, do not answer me!
Speak to my gossip Venus one fair word,
Speak, nephew, were you by when it began?
Spread thy close curtain, love-performing night,
Spur your proud horses hard, and ride in blood;
Spurn at his edict and fulfil a man's?
Stabb'd in my angry mood at Tewksbury?
Stand not amaz'd. The Prince will doom thee death
Stand up, stand up! Stand, an you be a man.
Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops.
Star'd each on other, and look'd deadly pale.
Stay but a little, I will come again.                [Exit.]
Staying for thine to keep him company.
Steep'd in the faultless blood of pretty Rutland-
Still blush, as thinking their own kisses sin;
Still-waking sleep, that is not what it is
Stopp'd in my soul and would not let it forth
Straining harsh discords and unpleasing sharps.
Strike up the drum.
Struck me, that thought to stay him, overboard
Stuff'd, as they say, with honourable parts,
Subtilly hath minist'red to have me dead,
Successively from age to age, he built it?
Such as I love; and you among the store,
Such as would please. 'Tis gone, 'tis gone, 'tis gone!
Such comfort as do lusty young men feel
Such hideous cries that, with the very noise,
Such terrible impression made my dream.
Such troops of citizens to come to him.
Supper is done, and we shall come too late.
Sups the fair Rosaline whom thou so lov'st;
Susan and she (God rest all Christian souls!)
Suspect me that I mean no good to him.
Suspecting that we both were in a house
Swear not by time to come; for that thou hast
Swear then by something that thou hast not wrong'd.
Sweet Blunt, make some good means to speak with him
Sweet, sweet, Sweet nurse, tell me, what says my love?
Swills your warm blood like wash, and makes his trough
T' avoid the the the censures of the carping world.
Take all myself.
Take all the swift advantage of the hours;
Take heed, take heed, for such die miserable.
Take heed; for he holds vengeance in his hand
Take him and cut him out in little stars,
Take it in what sense thou wilt.
Take not the quarrel from His pow'rful arm;
Take on his Grace the sovereignty thereof;
Take our good meaning, for our judgment sits
Take thou some new infection to thy eye,
Take thou the fee, and tell him what I say;
Take thou this vial, being then in bed,
Take up the sword again, or take up me.
Take up those cords. Poor ropes, you are beguil'd,
Taking the measure of an unmade grave.
Taking thy part, hath rush'd aside the law,
Talk'st thou to me of ifs? Thou art a traitor.
Talkers are no good doers. Be assur'd
Teach me to be your queen and you my subjects.
Teach not thy lip such scorn; for it was made
Tear-falling pity dwells not in this eye.
Tell her thou mad'st away her uncle Clarence,
Tell him and spare not. Look what I have said
Tell him his fears are shallow, without instance;
Tell him, myself, the Mayor and Aldermen,
Tell me what state, what dignity, what honour,
Tell me, how fares our loving mother?
Tell me, thou villain slave, where are my children?
Tell o'er your woes again by viewing mine.
Tell the clock there. Give me a calendar.
Tell them how Edward put to death a citizen
Tell them that God bids us do good for evil.
Tell them, when that my mother went with child
Temp'ring extremities with extreme sweet.
Tetchy and wayward was thy infancy;
Th' adulterate Hastings, Rivers, Vaughan, Grey,
Th' earldom of Hereford and the movables
Th' imperial metal, circling now thy head,
Th' insatiate greediness of his desire,
Than Buckingham and his rash-levied strength.
Than Edward will for tidings of my death.
Than a great queen with this condition-
Than all the complete armour that thou wear'st!
Than can the substance of ten thousand soldiers
Than death can yield me here by my abode.
Than death prorogued, wanting of thy love.
Than ever you or yours by me were harm'd!
Than in my greatness covet to be hid,
Than is the doating title of a mother;
Than of his outward show; which, God He knows,
Than some that have accus'd them wear their hats.
Than the death-darting eye of cockatrice.
Than these poor compounds that thou mayst not sell.
Than those that have more cunning to be strange.
Than thou hast made me by my dear lord's death.'
Than thou went'st forth in lamentation.
Than twenty of their swords! Look thou but sweet,
Than when thou met'st me last where now we meet:
Than your consent gives strength to make it fly.
Thank me no thankings, nor proud me no prouds,
That 'banished,' that one word 'banished,'
That Anne, my queen, is sick and like to die.
That Anne, my wife, is very grievous sick;
That Edward still should live-true noble Prince!
That God had lent us but this only child;
That God, the law, my honour, and her love
That Henry's death, my lovely Edward's death,
That I enjoy, being the Queen thereof.
That I have worn a visor and could tell
That I may live and say 'The dog is dead.'
That I may see my shadow as I pass.                     Exit
That I might touch that cheek!
That I must love a loathed enemy.
That I myself have done unto myself?
That I reviv'd and was an emperor.
That I shall say good night till it be morrow.
That I should wish for thee to help me curse
That I will show you shining at this feast,
That I would rather hide me from my greatness-
That I yet know not?
That I, being govern'd by the watery moon,
That I, forsooth, am stern and love them not?
That Romeo bid thee fetch?
That Romeo should, upon receipt thereof,
That after-hours with sorrow chide us not!
That all the standers-by had wet their cheeks
That all the world will be in love with night
That all without desert have frown'd on me;
That almost freezes up the heat of life.
That bear this heavy mutual load of moan,
That birds would sing and think it were not night.
That book in many's eyes doth share the glory,
That bottled spider, that foul bunch-back'd toad!
That breath'd upon the earth a Christian;
That by their witchcraft thus have marked me.
That came too lag to see him buried.
That cannot brook the accent of reproof.
That cannot see this palpable device?
That cop'st with death himself to scape from it;
That cropp'd the golden prime of this sweet prince
That didst unworthy slaughter upon others.
That do conspire my death with devilish plots
That dog, that had his teeth before his eyes
That ever I should live to see thee dead!
That ever ent'red in a drowsy head
That ever ever I did yet behold!
That ever grac'd me with thy company?
That ever liv'd.
That ever wretched age hath look'd upon.
That ever yet this land was guilty of.
That excellent grand tyrant of the earth
That fair for which love groan'd for and would die,
That fill his ears with such dissentious rumours.
That foul defacer of God's handiwork,
That from the prime creation e'er she framed.'
That frowns on me looks sadly upon him.
That gallant spirit hath aspir'd the clouds,
That grieves me when I see my shame in him.
That had befall'n us. As we pac'd along
That he could gnaw a crust at two hours old.
That he dares ne'er come back to challenge you;
That he shall soon keep Tybalt company;
That he will lose his head ere give consent
That he will not be won to aught against him.
That he would labour my delivery.
That high All-Seer which I dallied with
That idles in the wanton summer air,
That in gold clasps locks in the golden story;
That in submission will return to us.
That in the sty of the most deadly boar
That in thy likeness thou appear to us!
That in your outward action shows itself
That is renown'd for faith? Be fickle, Fortune,
That is the best news. That the Earl of Richmond
That is the butt end of a mother's blessing;
That is too cold in thinking of it now.
That it is meet so few should fetch the Prince.
That it may be to-day read o'er in Paul's.
That laid their guilt upon my guiltless shoulders.
That late thou gavest me; for Mercutio's soul
That lets it hop a little from her hand,
That living mortals, hearing them, run mad-
That long have frown'd upon their emnity!
That look into me with considerate eyes.
That looks not heavily and fun of dread.
That may convey my greetings, love, to thee.
That monthly changes in her circled orb,
That murd'red me. I would forget it fain;
That my pent heart may have some scope to beat,
That my woe-wearied tongue is still and mute.
That never dream'st on aught but butcheries.
That never slept a quiet hour with thee
That none of you may live his natural age,
That now give evidence against my soul
That one short minute gives me in her sight.
That our swift-winged souls may catch the King's,
That pierc'd the fearful hollow of thine ear.
That plats the manes of horses in the night
That presses them and learns them first to bear,
That princely novice, was struck dead by thee?
That quench the fire of your pernicious rage
That reigns in galled eyes of weeping souls,
That runaway eyes may wink, and Romeo
That scarce some two days since were worth a noble.
That seems disgracious in the city's eye,
That sees into the bottom of my grief?
That shall she, marry; I remember it well.
That she do give her sorrow so much sway,
That she may long live here, God say Amen!            Exeunt
That slew thy kinsman, brave Mercutio.
That spoil'd your summer fields and fruitful vines,
That stabb'd me in the field by Tewksbury.
That stir the King against the Duke my brother.
That the life-weary taker mall fall dead,
That they may crush down with a heavy fall
That they which brought me in my master's hate,
That this same very day your enemies,
That thou consent to marry us to-day.
That thou expects not nor I look'd not for.
That thou hadst call'd me all these bitter names.
That thou hast done me; therefore turn and draw.
That thou her maid art far more fair than she.
That thou shalt do no murder. Will you then
That thus I have resign'd to you my charge.
That tips with silver all these fruit-tree tops-
That villain cousin would have kill'd my husband.
That we have had no time to move our daughter.
That we may be admitted where he is.
That we may call it early by-and-by.
That we may praise Thee in the victory!
That were some spite; my invocation
That westward rooteth from the city's side,
That will I make before I let thee go.
That woo'd the slimy bottom of the deep
That would reduce these bloody days again
That would with treason wound this fair land's peace!
That wrens make prey where eagles dare not perch.
That you are now a maid. Thus then in brief:
That you depart and lay no hands on me.
That you have ta'en a tardy sluggard here.
That you might well have signified the same
That you run mad, seeing that she is well.
That you shall all repent the loss of mine.
That you shall rest but little. God forgive me!
That you take with unthankfulness his doing.
That you will war with God by murd'ring me?
That's by me wounded. Both our remedies
That, as I am a Christian faithful man,
That, his apparent open guilt omitted,
That, if his rule were true, he should be gracious.
That, when she dies, with beauty dies her store.
The Britaine navy is dispers'd by tempest.
The County Paris hath set up his rest
The County Paris, at Saint Peter's Church,
The County will be here with music straight,
The Earl of Pembroke keeps his regiment;
The King enacts more wonders than a man,
The King hath strictly charg'd the contrary.
The King mine uncle is to blame for it.
The King, on his own royal disposition
The King, that calls your beauteous daughter wife,
The Marquis Dorset, as I hear, is fled
The Mayor towards Guildhall hies him in an post.
The Prince my brother hath outgrown me far.
The Queen your mother and your brother York
The ape is dead, and I must conjure him.
The benefit thereof is always granted
The bitter sentence of poor Clarence' death?
The bleeding witness of my hatred by;
The boy is foolish, and I fear not him.
The brightness of her cheek would shame those stars
The broken rancour of your high-swol'n hearts,
The brother blindly shed the brother's blood,
The children live whose fathers thou hast slaughter'd,
The citizens are mum, say not a word.
The citizens are up, and Tybalt slain.
The cover, of the wings of grasshoppers;
The curfew bell hath rung, 'tis three o'clock.
The dangerous and unsuspected Hastings.
The day is broke; be wary, look about.
The day is hot, the Capulets abroad.
The day is ours, the bloody dog is dead.
The day to cheer and night's dank dew to dry,
The day will come that thou shalt wish for me
The deed you undertake is damnable.
The deep-revolving witty Buckingham
The earldom of Hereford and all the movables
The earth hath swallowed all my hopes but she;
The earth that's nature's mother is her tomb.
The envious slanders of her false accusers;
The excuse that thou dost make in this delay
The father rashly slaughter'd his own son,
The fear of that holds off my present aid.
The fearful passage of their death-mark'd love,
The fiery Tybalt, with his sword prepar'd;
The first that there did greet my stranger soul
The fish lives in the sea, and 'tis much pride
The flattering index of a direful pageant,
The gallant, young, and noble gentleman,
The game was ne'er so fair, and I am done.
The greatest strength and power that he can make
The hateful mansion.                     [Draws his dagger.]
The heavens do low'r upon you for some ill;
The high imperial type of this earth's glory.
The history of all her secret thoughts.
The horrible conceit of death and night,
The kindred of the Queen, must die at Pomfret.
The last was I that felt thy tyranny.
The late request that you did sound me in.
The law, that threat'ned death, becomes thy friend
The least of you shall share his part thereof.
The leisure and enforcement of the time
The life of Tybalt.
The lights burn blue. It is now dead midnight.
The lineal glory of your royal house,
The lips of those that breathe them in the air.
The liquid drops of tears that you have shed
The loss you have is but a son being King,
The manner and the purpose of his treasons:
The mayor in courtesy show'd me the castle
The measure done, I'll watch her place of stand
The men you talk of came into my mind.
The mighty Warwick and did fight for me?
The more I have, for both are infinite.
The most arch deed of piteous massacre
The most replenished sweet work of nature
The most you sought was her promotion,
The new-heal'd wound of malice should break out,
The noble Duke of Clarence to your hands.
The noble isle doth want her proper limbs;
The only son of your great enemy.
The orchard walls are high and hard to climb,
The other Edward dead, to quit my Edward;
The other did not so.
The parents live whose children thou hast butcheed,
The peace of England and our persons' safety,
The petty rebel, dull-brain'd Buckingham,
The prayers of holy saints and wronged souls,
The precedent was full as long a-doing;
The precious image of our dear Redeemer,
The precious treasure of his eyesight lost.
The presentation of but what I was,
The pretty wretch left crying, and said 'Ay.'
The purple sap from her sweet brother's body,
The rest that love me, rise and follow me.
The right and fortune of his happy stars,
The roses in thy lips and cheeks shall fade
The royal tree hath left us royal fruit
The scept'red office of your ancestors,
The seal I keep; and so betide to me
The secret mischiefs that I set abroach
The shady curtains from Aurora's bed,
The sky doth frown and lour upon our army.
The slaughter of the Prince that ow'd that crown,
The slave of nature and the son of hell,
The son, compell'd, been butcher to the sire;
The sons of Edward sleep in Abraham's bosom,
The spacious world cannot again afford;
The sun not yet thy sighs from heaven clears,
The supreme seat, the throne majestical,
The tiger now hath seiz'd the gentle hind;
The traitor speak, and timorously confess
The true succeeders of each royal house,
The trumpet sounds; be copious in exclaims.
The unity the King my husband made
The unlucky manage of this fatal brawl.
The unreasonable fury of a beast.
The usurping helmets of our adversaries!
The valiant Paris seeks you for his love.
The vaulty heaven so high above our heads.
The water swell before a boist'rous storm.
The weary way hath made you melancholy.
The which if you with patient ears attend,
The which thou once didst bend against her breast,
The world affords no law to make thee rich;
The world is not thy friend, nor the world's law;
The worm of conscience still be-gnaw thy soul!
The wretched, bloody, and usurping boar,
The wronged heirs of York do pray for thee.
Their kingdom's loss, my woeful banishment,
Their lips were four red roses on a stalk,
Their woes are parcell'd, mine is general.
Then be not poor, but break it and take this.
Then bring me to their sights; I'll bear thy blame,
Then curs'd she Hastings. O, remember, God,
Then dreams he of another benefice.
Then fiery expedition be my wing,
Then fly. What, from myself? Great reason why-
Then he was urg'd to tell my tale again.
Then if you fight against God's enemy,
Then is it likely thou wilt undertake
Then love-devouring death do what he dare-
Then mightst thou speak, then mightst thou tear thy hair,
Then tell me what makes he upon the seas.
Then was I going prisoner to the Tower
Then weep no more. I'll send to one in Mantua,
Then where you please and shall be thought most fit
Then would I hide my bones, not rest them here.
Then, as the manner of our country is,
Then, dreadful trumpet, sound the general doom!
Then, good my lord, take to your royal self
Then, in the name of God and all these rights,
Then, on the other side, I check'd my friends.
Then, since the case so stands as now it doth,
Then, taking him from thence that is not there,
There art thou happy. Tybalt would kill thee,
There is my purse to cure that blow of thine.
There is no end, no limit, measure, bound,
There is no more but so: say it is done,
There lies the Duke asleep; and there the keys.
There lies the man, slain by young Romeo,
There stays a husband to make you a wife.
There to be crowned Richard's royal queen.
There wanteth now our brother Gloucester here
There's many a gentle person made a Jack.
There's nothing differs but the outward fame.
There's some conceit or other likes him well
There, at your meet'st advantage of the time,
There, take thou that till thou bring better news.
Therefore I say with noble Buckingham
Therefore accept such kindness as I can.
Therefore be patient, take no note of him.
Therefore do nimble-pinion'd doves draw Love,
Therefore farewell. I see thou knowest me not.
Therefore have done. Some grief shows much of love;
Therefore he sends to know your lordship's pleasure-
Therefore love moderately: long love doth so;
Therefore present to her-as sometimes Margaret
Therefore stay yet; thou need'st not to be gone.
Therefore take with thee my most grievous curse,
Therefore thy earliness doth me assure
Therefore thy kinsmen are no let to me.
Therefore use none. Let Romeo hence in haste,
Therefore we'll have some half a dozen friends,
Therefore, dear mother-I must call you so-
Therefore, for God's sake, entertain good comfort,
Therefore, if thou art moved, thou runn'st away.
Therefore, out of thy long-experienc'd time,
Therefore-to speak, and to avoid the first,
These English woes shall make me smile in France.
These babes for Clarence weep, and so do I:
These both put off, a poor petitioner,
These eyes, which never shed remorseful tear,
These famish'd beggars, weary of their lives;
These griefs, these woes, these sorrows make me old.
These happy masks that kiss fair ladies' brows,
These nails should rend that beauty from my cheeks.
They are all forth; well, I will walk myself
They are as children but one step below,
They are but beggars that can count their worth;
They are free men, but I am banished.
They could not speak; and so I left them both,
They have made worms' meat of me. I have it,
They often feel a world of restless cares,
They pray; grant thou, lest faith turn to despair.
They say Jove laughs. O gentle Romeo,
They shall be praying nuns, not weeping queens;
They smile at me who shortly shall be dead.           Exeunt
They that stand high have many blasts to shake them,
They thus directed, we will follow
They would restrain the one, distain the other.
They'll be in scarlet straight at any news.
Thine being but a moiety of my moan-
Things that, to hear them told, have made me tremble-
Think how thou stabb'dst me in my prime of youth
Think on Lord Hastings. Despair and die.
Think on the Tower and me. Despair, and die.
Think that thy babes were sweeter than they were,
Think true love acted simple modesty.
Think you, but that I know our state secure,
Thinking on them, go I unto the Tower.
This Edward, whom our manners call the Prince.
This Prince hath neither claim'd it nor deserv'd it,
This bud of love, by summer's ripening breath,
This but begins the woe others must end.
This day had plotted, in the council-house,
This day those enernies are put to death,
This doth not so, for she divideth us.
This fair alliance quickly shall can home
This field-bed is too cold for me to sleep.
This found I on my tent this morning.
This hand, which for thy love did kill thy love,
This holy shrine, the gentle fine is this:
This is All-Souls' day, fellow, is it not?
This is as't should be. Let me see the County.
This is dear mercy, and thou seest it not.
This is not Romeo, he's some other where.
This is she-
This is the day wherein I wish'd to fall
This is the day which in King Edward's time
This is the hag, when maids lie on their backs,
This is the truth, or let Benvolio die.
This love feel I, that feel no love in this.
This may flies do, when I from this must fly;
This neighbour air, and let rich music's tongue
This night I hold an old accustom'd feast,
This night you shall behold him at our feast.
This precious book of love, this unbound lover,
This proffer'd benefit of dignity;
This sickly land might solace as before.
This sorrow that I have by right is yours;
This sudden stab of rancour I misdoubt;
This torture should be roar'd in dismal hell.
This trick may chance to scathe you. I know what.
This was my wish: 'Be thou' quoth I 'accurs'd
This, and Saint George to boot! What think'st thou,
This, this All-Souls' day to my fearful soul
Those eyes of thine from mine have drawn salt tears,
Those uncles which you want were dangerous;
Thou and my bosom henceforth shall be twain.
Thou and these woes were all for Rosaline.
Thou art a widow, yet thou art a mother
Thou art sworn as deeply to effect what we intend
Thou art thyself, though not a Montague.
Thou art uprous'd with some distemp'rature;
Thou cacodemon; there thy kingdom is.
Thou cam'st on earth to make the earth my hell.
Thou counterfeit'st a bark, a sea, a wind:
Thou cut'st my head off with a golden axe
Thou didst receive the sacrament to fight
Thou didst usurp my place, and dost thou not
Thou dost confirm his happiness for ever.
Thou drown the sad remembrance of those wrongs
Thou elvish-mark'd, abortive, rooting hog,
Thou hadst a Richard, till a Richard kill'd him.
Thou hadst an Edward, till a Richard kill'd him;
Thou hadst not broken, nor my brothers died.
Thou hast amaz'd me. By my holy order,
Thou hast the strength of will to slay thyself,
Thou kill'dst my husband Henry in the Tower,
Thou know'st our reasons urg'd upon the way.
Thou knowest my daughter's of a pretty age.
Thou knowest my lodging. Get me ink and paper
Thou loathed issue of thy father's loins,
Thou mayst be damned for that wicked deed!
Thou mayst prove false. At lovers' perjuries,
Thou pout'st upon thy fortune and thy love.
Thou rag of honour, thou detested-
Thou shalt be borne to that same ancient vault
Thou shalt be loggerhead. [Exit Fellow.] Good faith, 'tis day.
Thou shalt continue two-and-forty hours,
Thou slander of thy heavy mother's womb,
Thou sober-suited matron, all in black,
Thou talk'st of nothing.
Thou that wast seal'd in thy nativity
Thou wast the prettiest babe that e'er I nurs'd.
Thou wilt be taken.- Stay awhile!- Stand up;          Knock.
Thou wilt fall backward when thou comest to age;
Thou wilt fall backward when thou hast more wit;
Thou wilt quarrel with a man for cracking nuts, having no other
Thou wilt revolt and fly to him, I fear.
Though 'twere to buy a world of happy days-
Though heaven cannot. O Romeo, Romeo!
Though news be sad, yet tell them merrily;
Though not by war, by surfeit die your king,
Though we have spent our harvest of this king,
Three civil brawls, bred of an airy word
Three times to-day my foot-cloth horse did stumble,
Throng many doubtful hollow-hearted friends,
Throng to the bar, crying all 'Guilty! guilty!'
Through fair Verona; find those persons out
Through lovers' brains, and then they dream of love;
Throw over her the veil of infamy;
Throw your mistempered weapons to the ground
Thursday is near; lay hand on heart, advise:
Thursday let it be- a Thursday, tell her
Thus Margaret's curse falls heavy on my neck.
Thus doth He force the swords of wicked men
Thus far into the bowels of the land
Thus from my lips, by thine my sin is purg'd.  [Kisses her.]
Thus hath the course of justice whirl'd about
Thus high, by thy advice
Thus will I drown your exclamations.
Thy Clarence he is dead that stabb'd my Edward;
Thy Edward he is dead, that kill'd my Edward;
Thy George, profan'd, hath lost his lordly honour;
Thy adversary's wife doth pray for thee.
Thy age confirm'd, proud, subtle, sly, and bloody,
Thy beauty hath made me effeminate
Thy beauty hath, and made them blind with weeping.
Thy broken faith hath made the prey for worms.
Thy crown, usurp'd, disgrac'd his kingly glory.
Thy dear love sworn but hollow perjury,
Thy father, or thy mother, nay, or both,
Thy fault our law calls death; but the kind Prince,
Thy friends suspect for traitors while thou liv'st,
Thy garments are not spotted with our blood,
Thy garter, blemish'd, pawn'd his knightly virtue;
Thy head, an indirectly, gave direction.
Thy honour, state, and seat, is due to me.
Thy love did read by rote, that could not spell.
Thy mother's name is ominous to children.
Thy murd'rous falchion smoking in his blood;
Thy nephews' souls bid thee despair and die.
Thy noble shape is but a form of wax
Thy old groans ring yet in mine ancient ears.
Thy prime of manhood daring, bold, and venturous;
Thy purpose marriage, send me word to-morrow,
Thy school-days frightful, desp'rate, wild, and furious;
Thy tears are womanish, thy wild acts denote
Thy tempest-tossed body. How now, wife?
Thy wit, that ornament to shape and love,
Thy womb let loose to chase us to our graves.
Thyself a queen, for me that was a queen,
Tickle the senseless rushes with their heels;
Tickling a parson's nose as 'a lies asleep,
Ties up my tongue and will not let me speak.
Till Holy Church incorporate two in one.
Till Richard wear the garland of the realm.
Till it was whetted on thy stone-hard heart
Till she had laid it and conjur'd it down.
Till that my nails were anchor'd in thine eyes;
Till that the Duke give order for his burial;
Till the Prince came, who parted either part.
Till then, adieu, and keep this holy kiss.             Exit.
Till thou shalt know the reason of my love;
Time out o' mind the fairies' coachmakers.
To Bona, sister to the King of France.
To Brecknock while my fearful head is on!               Exit
To County Paris, to prepare him up
To Juliet's grave; for there must I use thee.
To Lammastide?
To Mantua, with my letters to thy lord.
To Richmond, in the parts where he abides.    [Stands apart]
To Salisbury; the rest march on with me.
To Stanley's regiment; bid him bring his power
To Thee I do commend my watchful soul
To an impatient child that hath new robes
To answer 'I'll not wed, I cannot love;
To any in this presence, I desire
To bar my master's heirs in true descent,
To base declension and loath'd bigamy.
To be a virtuous and well-govern'd youth.
To be consorted with the humorous night.
To be discover'd, that can do me good?
To be reveng'd on Rivers, Dorset, Grey;
To be reveng'd on him that kill'd my husband.
To be reveng'd on him that loveth thee.
To be so baited, scorn'd, and stormed at.
To be so flouted in this royal presence?
To be spoke to but by the Recorder.
To be the aim of every dangerous shot,
To be to thee this night a torchbearer
To be your comforter when he is gone.
To bear a poison, I would temper it;
To bear her burden, whe'er I will or no,
To bear the golden yoke of sovereignty,
To bear this tidings to the bloody King.
To beautify him only lacks a cover.
To beg your pardon. Pardon, I beseech you!
To bid me trudge.
To blaze your marriage, reconcile your friends,
To blazon it, then sweeten with thy breath
To both their deaths shalt thou be accessary.
To breakfast once forth of my company.
To breathe such vows as lovers use to swear,
To call hers (exquisite) in question more.
To catch my death with jauncing up and down!
To cease thy suit and leave me to my grief.
To chide my fortune, and torment myself?
To comfort Edward with our company?
To comfort thee, though thou art banished.
To comfort you. I wot well where he is.
To counsel me to make my peace with God,
To cut off those that have offended Him.
To desperate adventures and assur'd destruction.
To do this deed will hate you for the deed.
To do this piece of ruthless butchery,
To doom th' offenders, whosoe'er they be.
To draw him from his holy exercise.
To draw the brats of Clarence out of sight,
To enter in the thoughts of desperate men!
To feed my humour, wish thyself no harm.
To fetch a ladder, by the which your love
To fight against this guilty homicide.
To find the empty, vast, and wand'ring air;
To fleer and scorn at our solemnity?
To fly the boar before the boar pursues
To follow this fair corse unto her grave.
To gaze upon these secrets of the deep?
To give your censures in this business?
To go with Paris to Saint Peter's Church,
To gratulate the gentle Princes there.
To have her match'd; and having now provided
To have him suddenly convey'd from hence.
To hear good counsel. O, what learning is!
To hear her prayer for them, as now for us!
To hear him nam'd and cannot come to him,
To hear the piteous moan that Rutland made
To hear true shrift. Come, madam, let's away,
To help me sort such needful ornaments
To help thee curse this poisonous bunch-back'd toad.
To her go I, a jolly thriving wooer.
To high promotions and great dignity.
To him that hath most cause to be a mourner,
To his new kingdom of ne'er-changing night.
To hurl upon their heads that break his law.
To know our farther pleasure in this case,
To lay one in, another out to have.
To leave this keen encounter of our wits,
To live an unstain'd wife to my sweet love.
To lure this tassel-gentle back again!
To make William Lord Hastings of our mind,
To make amends I'll give it to your daughter.
To make confession and to be absolv'd.
To make the blessed period of this peace.
To mangle me with that word 'banished'?
To marry Paris. Wednesday is to-morrow.
To meet her new beloved anywhere;
To meet you at the Tower and welcome you.
To merit bliss by making me despair.
To mild entreaties, God in heaven forbid
To mitigate the scorn he gives his uncle
To move the heavens to smile upon my state,
To murder me and my good Lord of Gloucester.
To murther, murther our solemnity?
To my proceeding!-if, with dear heart's love,
To no apparent likelihood of breach,
To old Freetown, our common judgment place.
To overgo thy woes and drown thy cries?
To paly ashes, thy eyes' windows fall
To part the Queen's proud kindred from the Prince.
To pray for them that have done scathe to us!
To princely Richard and to Buckingham.
To prison, eyes; ne'er look on liberty!
To quicken your increase I will beget
To raise a spirit in his mistress' circle
To reap the harvest of perpetual peace
To reconcile me to his friendly peace:
To revel in the entrails of my lambs.
To rouse thee from thy bed, there art thou dead.
To royalize his blood I spent mine own.
To say to me that thou art out of breath?
To scorn at our solemnity this night.
To season love, that of it doth not taste!
To see if any mean to shrink from me.                 Exeunt
To see it tetchy and fall out with the dug!
To see now how a jest shall come about!
To see you are become so penitent.
To shun the danger that his soul divines.
To sit about the coronation.
To slay the innocent? What is my offence?
To smooth that rough touch with a tender kiss.
To soar with his light feathers; and so bound
To stay him from the fall of vanity;
To stop all hopes whose growth may damage me.
To stop the inundation of her tears,
To strike him dead I hold it not a sin.
To study fashions to adorn my body.
To such a greeting. Villain am I none.
To take her in her heart's extremest hate,
To take our brother Clarence to your grace.
To taunt and scorn you thus opprobriously?
To tell us whether they will come or no!
To the corruption of a blemish'd stock;
To the disgrace and downfall of your house;
To think it should leave crying and say 'Ay.'
To those whose dealings have deserv'd the place
To threaten me with death is most unlawful.
To torture thee the more, being what thou art.
To touch his growth nearer than he touch'd mine.
To trust the mock'ry of unquiet slumbers.
To try if thou be current gold indeed.
To turn their own points in their masters' bosoms.
To turn your households' rancour to pure love.
To twinkle in their spheres till they return.
To undertake the death of all the world
To visit him to-morrow or next day.
To wail the dimming of our shining star;
To warn false traitors from the like attempts.
To watch the waning of mine enemies.
To whom I will retail my conquest won,
To whose foul mouth no healthsome air breathes in,
To wield old partisans, in hands as old,
To win your daughter.
To worry lambs and lap their gentle blood,
To wreak the love I bore my cousin Tybalt
To yield the ghost, but still the envious flood
To you and your behests, and am enjoin'd
To your good prayer will scarcely say amen.
To-day at Pomfret bloodily were butcher'd,
To-day shalt thou behold a subject die
To-day the lords you talk'd of are beheaded.
To-morrow are let blood at Pomfret Castle;
To-morrow in the battle think on me,
To-morrow in the battle think on me,
To-morrow night look that thou lie alone;
To-morrow or next day they will be here.
To-morrow will I send.
To-morrow's vengeance on the head of Richard.
To-morrow, in my judgment, is too sudden;
To-night she's mew'd up to her heaviness.
Together with the terror of the place-
Told me the King, provok'd to it by the Queen,
Told the sad story of my father's death,
Tongue-tied ambition, not replying, yielded
Too ceremonious and traditional.
Too deep and dead, poor infants, in their graves.
Too early seen unknown, and known too late!
Too flattering-sweet to be substantial.
Too great oppression for a tender thing.
Too late he died that might have kept that title,
Too like the lightning, which doth cease to be
Too rude, too boist'rous, and it pricks like thorn.
Too swift arrives as tardy as too slow.
Torments him so that he will sure run mad.
Toward Ludlow then, for we'll not stay behind.        Exeunt
Towards Phoebus' lodging! Such a wagoner
Towards him I made; but he was ware of me
Tower.
Transparent heretics, be burnt for liars!
Tremble and start at wagging of a straw,
Tressel and Berkeley, go along with me.
True hope is swift and flies with swallow's wings;
True ornaments to know a holy man.
Trust to't. Bethink you. I'll not be forsworn.         Exit.
Turn back, dull earth, and find thy centre out.
Turn from their office to black funeral-
Turn giddy, and be holp by backward turning;
Turn thee Benvolio! look upon thy death.
Turn to another, this shall slay them both.
Turning his face to the dew-dropping South.
Two may keep counsel, putting one away?
Two of the fairest stars in all the heaven,
Two such opposed kings encamp them still
Tybalt, Mercutio, the Prince expressly hath
Tybalt, that murtherer, which way ran he?
Tybalt, you ratcatcher, will you walk?
Unarm'd, and unresolv'd to beat them back.
Uncertain way of gain! But I am in
Uncharitably with me have you dealt,
Uncle, my brother mocks both you and me;
Uncle, your Grace knows how to bear with him.
Uncomfortable time, why cam'st thou now
Under love's heavy burthen do I sink.
Under our tents I'll play the eaves-dropper,
Under what title shall I woo for thee
Uneven is the course; I like it not.
Unfold the imagin'd happiness that both
Ungovern'd youth, to wail it in their age;
Unlawfully made drunk with innocent blood.
Unless good counsel may the cause remove.
Unless it be while some tormenting dream
Unless philosophy can make a Juliet,
Unless that husband send it me from heaven
Unless thou couldst put on some other shape
Unless thou tell me how I may prevent it.
Unmeritable shuns your high request.
Unplagu'd with corns will have a bout with you.
Unripp'dst the bowels of thy sov'reign's son.
Unseemly woman in a seeming man!
Untainted, unexamin'd, free, at liberty.
Until your lordship came to see his end-
Untimely smother'd in their dusky graves.
Untimely storms make men expect a dearth.
Unto a lineal true-derived course.
Unto his princely brother presently?
Unto the citizens, who haply may
Unto the frowning judge, or who pronounc'd
Unto the kingdom of perpetual night.
Unto the shore, to ask those on the banks
Unto the white-upturned wond'ring eyes
Untouch'd or slightly handled in discourse.
Unwieldy, slow, heavy and pale as lead.
Unworthy as she is, that we have wrought
Up to the ears. Come, we burn daylight, ho!
Up with the tent! Come, noble gentlemen,
Upon a rapier's point. Stay, Tybalt, stay!
Upon his body that hath slaughter'd him!
Upon his brow shame is asham'd to sit;
Upon his party for the gain thereof;
Upon his party. He, mistrusting them,
Upon my body with their hellish charms?
Upon my life, she finds, although I cannot,
Upon my part shall be inviolable.
Upon so soft a subject as myself!
Upon the giddy footing of the hatches,
Upon the hatches. Thence we look'd toward England,
Upon the innocent and aweless throne.
Upon the like devotion as yourselves,
Upon the sweetest flower of all the field.
Upon them! Victory sits on our helms.                 Exeunt
Upon your Grace, but with all duteous love
Urge the necessity and state of times,
Use careful watch, choose trusty sentinels.
Usurp the just proportion of my sorrow?
Utter your gravity o'er a gossip's bowl,
Vaughan, and all that have miscarried
Vile earth, to earth resign; end motion here,
Virtue itself turns vice, being misapplied,
Virtuous and fair, royal and gracious.
Vouchsafe, divine perfection of a woman,
Waking or sleeping, still my care hath been
Was crown'd in Paris but at nine months old.
Was ever book containing such vile matter
Was ever woman in this humour won?
Was ever woman in this humour woo'd?
Was it so precious to me as 'tis now.
Was my great father-in-law, renowned Warwick,
Was not incensed by his subtle mother
Was stabb'd with bloody daggers. God, I pray him,
Was that my father that went hence so fast?
Was woe enough, if it had ended there;
We are to reap the harvest of his son.
We are undone, lady, we are undone!
We follow'd then our lord, our sovereign king.
We give to thee our guiltless blood to drink.
We go to use our hands and not our tongues.
We have a trifling foolish banquet towards.
We live to tell it-that the subtle traitor
We may digest our complots in some form.              Exeunt
We met, we woo'd, and made exchange of vow,
We must be brief when traitors brave the field.       Exeunt
We must talk in secret. Nurse, come back again;
We shall be much unfurnish'd for this time.
We should infringe the holy privilege
We sucking on her natural bosom find;
We waste our lights in vain, like lamps by day.
We will unite the white rose and the red.
We would as willingly give cure as know.
We'll have no Cupid hoodwink'd with a scarf,
We'll keep no great ado- a friend or two;
We'll measure them a measure, and be gone.
Wear both of them, for both of them are thine.
Wear it, enjoy it, and make much of it.
Wedges of gold, great anchors, heaps of pearl,
Weigh it but with the grossness of this age,
Welcome from Mantua. What says Romeo?
Welcome, destruction, blood, and massacre!
Welcome, gentlemen! I have seen the day
Welcome, my lord. I dance attendance here;
Well said, my hearts!- You are a princox- go!
Well, Catesby, ere a fortnight make me older,
Well, I'll go hide the body in some hole,
Well, Juliet, I will lie with thee to-night.
Went through the army, cheering up the soldiers.
Wept like two children in their deaths' sad story.
Were factious for the house of Lancaster;
Were for myself; and so, my lord, adieu.
Were in a mask?
Were jocund and suppos'd their states were sure,
Were of an age. Well, Susan is with God;
Were red-hot steel, to sear me to the brains!
Were thinly scattered, to make up a show.
Were to incense the boar to follow us
Were't not that by great preservation
Wert thou as young as I, Juliet thy love,
Westminster,
What 'twere to lose it and be miserable!
What I have spoke; but farewell compliment!
What are they, I beseech your ladyship?
What canst thou swear by now?
What comfortable hour canst thou name
What curious eye doth quote deformities?
What do I fear? Myself? There's none else by.
What doth her beauty serve but as a note
What dreadful noise of waters in my ears,
What early tongue so sweet saluteth me?
What from your Grace I shall deliver to him.
What heir of York is there alive but we?
What here shall miss, our toil shall strive to mend.
What if her eyes were there, they in her head?
What if it be a poison which the friar
What if this mixture do not work at all?
What is her burying gave, that is her womb;
What is it else? A madness most discreet,
What is there? Now, fellow,
What is your will?
What lawful quest have given their verdict up
What may she not? She may-ay, marry, may she-
What need'st thou run so many miles about,
What news, what news, in this our tott'ring state?
What say you, Simon Catling?
What say'st thou now? Speak suddenly, be brief.
What say'st thou? Hast thou not a word of joy?
What says Lord Stanley? Will he bring his power?
What says he of our marriage? What of that?
What shall I say more than I have inferr'd?
What sights of ugly death within my eyes!
What simpleness is this.- I come, I come!             Knock.
What sorrow craves acquaintance at my hand
What think'st thou-will our friends prove all true?
What think'st thou? Is it not an easy matter
What traitor hears me, and says not Amen?
What unaccustom'd cause procures her hither?
What you have been ere this, and what you are;
What! I that kill'd her husband and his father-
What! we have many goodly days to see.
What's Montague? it is nor hand, nor foot,
What's in a name? That which we call a rose
What, dress'd, and in your clothes, and down again?
What, go you toward the Tower?
What, goodman boy? I say he shall. Go to!
What, have you din'd at home?
What, is my beaver easier than it was?
What, is my daughter gone to Friar Laurence?
What, not a word? You take your pennyworths now!
What, rouse thee, man! Thy Juliet is alive,
What, shall we toward the Tower? The day is spent.
What, wilt thou wash him from his grave with tears?
When Dighton thus told on: 'We smothered
When I am cold in love to you or yours.
When I have most need to employ a friend
When I should mount with wings of victory.
When I, thy three-hours wife, have mangled it?
When King Cophetua lov'd the beggar maid!
When Oxford had me down, he rescued me
When Richmond was a little peevish boy.
When black-fac'd Clifford shook his sword at him;
When but love's shadows are so rich in joy!
When didst thou sleep when such a deed was done?
When gallant-springing brave Plantagenet,
When great leaves fall, then winter is at hand;
When have I injur'd thee? when done thee wrong,
When he bestrides the lazy-pacing clouds
When he had done, some followers of mine own
When he shall split thy very heart with sorrow,
When holy and devout religious men
When it did taste the wormwood on the nipple
When men are unprepar'd and look not for it.
When presently through all thy veins shall run
When scarce the blood was well wash'd from his hands
When she exclaim'd on Hastings, you, and I,
When such ill dealing must be seen in thought.          Exit
When that he bids good morrow with such spirit.
When the sun sets, who doth not look for night?
When theirs are dry, for Romeo's banishment.
When they should serve their sovereign in the west?
When thou com'st thither-  [To CATESBY]  Dull,
When thou didst bower the spirit of a fiend
When thou didst crown his warlike brows with paper
When thou hast broke it in such dear degree?
When thou mayest tell thy tale the nearest way?
When thou shalt tell the process of their death.
When well apparell'd April on the heel
When you have done, repair to Crosby Place.
Where I may read who pass'd that passing fair?
Where Juliet lives; and every cat and dog
Where all the kindred of the Capulets lie.
Where and what time thou wilt perform the rite;
Where and what time your Majesty shall please.
Where be the bending peers that flattered thee?
Where be the thronging troops that followed thee?
Where be thy tenants and thy followers?
Where be thy two sons? Wherein dost thou joy?
Where bloody Tybalt, yet but green in earth,
Where civil blood makes civil hands unclean.
Where every horse bears his commanding rein
Where eyes did once inhabit there were crept,
Where for this many hundred years the bones
Where is Lord Stanley quarter'd, do you know?
Where is my father and my mother, nurse?
Where is my lady's lord, where's Romeo?
Where is my page? Go, villain, fetch a surgeon.
Where is she? and how doth she! and what says
Where is the evidence that doth accuse me?
Where is thy husband now? Where be thy brothers?
Where nothing can proceed that toucheth us
Where on a sudden one hath wounded me
Where serpents are; chain me with roaring bears,
Where shall we dine? O me! What fray was here?
Where shall we sojourn till our coronation?
Where should she be? How oddly thou repliest!
Where that same banish'd runagate doth live,
Where the infectious pestilence did reign,
Where thou shalt live till we can find a time
Where you shall find me well accompanied
Where't should be branded, if that right were right,
Where, he shall see, the boar will use us kindly.
Where, in that nest of spicery, they will breed
Where, underneath the grove of sycamore
Where-after I have solemnly interr'd
Wherein thyself shalt highly be employ'd.
Wherein, my friends, have I offended you?
Whereof I shall not have intelligence.
Whereof the King my brother was possess'd.
Whereto I have invited many a guest,
Which God defend that I should wring from him.
Which I will purchase with my duteous service;
Which after-hours gives leisure to repent.
Which are the children of an idle brain,
Which by his death hath lost much majesty.
Which by my presence might have been concluded.
Which by the sign thereof was termed so.
Which craves as desperate an execution
Which fondly you would here impose on me;
Which haply by much company might be urg'd;
Which heavy sorrow makes them apt unto.
Which here we waken to our country's good,
Which here you urge to prove us enemies,
Which hitherto hath held my eyes from rest;
Which if thou please to hide in this true breast
Which in a set hand fairly is engross'd
Which in his dearest need will fly from him.
Which in the day of battle tire thee more
Which is as thin of substance as the air,
Which is the god of my idolatry,
Which issued from my other angel husband,
Which mannerly devotion shows in this;
Which may make you and him to rue at th' other.
Which modern lamentation might have mov'd?
Which now the loving haste of these our friends,
Which now, two tender bedfellows for dust,
Which of you trembles not that looks on me?
Which of you, if you were a prince's son,
Which oft the angry Mab with blisters plagues,
Which once untangled much misfortune bodes
Which once,' quoth Forrest 'almost chang'd my mind;
Which she hath prais'd him with above compare
Which should bedeck thy shape, thy love, thy wit.
Which so-long-sund'red friends should dwell upon.
Which stretch'd unto their servants, daughters, wives,
Which ten times faster glide than the sun's beams
Which the commission of thy years and art
Which the dark night hath so discovered.
Which then most sought where most might not be found,
Which they upon the adverse faction want.
Which thou supposest I have done to thee.
Which thou wilt propagate, to have it prest
Which to recure, we heartily solicit
Which to the high topgallant of my joy
Which too untimely here did scorn the earth.
Which we have noted in you to your kindred
Which we more hunt for than the grace of God!
Which well I am assur'd I have not done-
Which well appeared in his lineaments,
Which when I saw, I reprehended them,
Which with a bounteous hand was kindly lent;
Which would be so much the more dangerous
Which you have promised I shall possess.
Which you weep for.
Which you, mistaking, offer up to joy.
Which, I presume, he'll take in gentle part.
Which, as he breath'd defiance to my ears,
Which, as they kiss, consume. The sweetest honey
Which, as thou know'st, unjustly must be spilt.
Which, but their children's end, naught could remove,
Which, in his nonage, council under him,
Which, like a usurer, abound'st in all,
Which, mellow'd by the stealing hours of time,
Which, on more view of many, mine, being one,
Which, since, succeeding ages have re-edified.
Which, too much minded by herself alone,
Which, well thou knowest, is cross and full of sin.
While we were interchanging thrusts and blows,
Whiles in the mildness of your sleepy thoughts,
Whipp'd and tormented and- God-den, good fellow.
Whisper the spirits of thine enemies
White-liver'd runagate, what doth he there?
Whiter than new snow upon a raven's back.
Whither, if it please you, we may now withdraw us.
Who almost burst to belch it in the sea.
Who answer'd him they came from Buckingham
Who builds his hope in air of your good looks
Who ever would have thought it? Romeo!
Who from my cabin tempted me to walk
Who had but newly entertain'd revenge,
Who hath descried the number of the traitors?
Who is already sick and pale with grief
Who is it that complains unto the King
Who is most inward with the noble Duke?
Who knocks so hard? Whence come you? What's your will
Who knows not that the gentle Duke is dead?
Who now the price of his dear blood doth owe?
Who prays continually for Richmond's good.
Who saw the sun to-day?
Who sent you hither? Wherefore do you come?
Who shall reward you better for my life
Who slew to-day a riotous gentleman
Who spake aloud 'What scourge for perjury
Who spoke of brotherhood? Who spoke of love?
Who sued to me for him? Who, in my wrath,
Who sues, and kneels, and says 'God save the Queen'?
Who they shall be that straight shall post to Ludlow.
Who told me how the poor soul did forsake
Who told me, in the field at Tewksbury
Who told me, when we both lay in the field
Who, all as hot, turns deadly point to point,
Who, but for dreaming on this fond exploit,
Who, earnest in the service of my God,
Who, even in pure and vestal modesty,
Who, nothing hurt withal, hiss'd him in scorn.
Who, raging with thy tears and they with them,
Whom God preserve better than you would wish!-
Whom I will marry straight to Clarence' daughter-
Whom envy hath immur'd within your walls,
Whom their o'er-cloyed country vomits forth
Whose bright out-shining beams thy cloudy wrath
Whose deadly web ensnareth thee about?
Whose hand soever lanc'd their tender hearts,
Whose humble means match not his haughty spirit.
Whose misadventur'd piteous overthrows
Whose names are written there, and to them say,
Whose sale is present death in Mantua,
Whose unavoided eye is murderous.
Why 'silver sound'? Why 'music with her silver sound'?
Why followed not, when she said 'Tybalt's dead,'
Why grow the branches when the root is gone?
Why or for what the nobles were committed
Why railest thou on thy birth, the heaven, and earth?
Why should you fall into so deep an O?
Why stay'st thou here, and go'st not to the Duke?
Why strew'st thou sugar on that bottled spider
Why then, O brawling love! O loving hate!
Why then, give way, dull clouds, to my quick curses!
Why wither not the leaves that want their sap?
Why, lamb! why, lady! Fie, you slug-abed!
Why, love, I say! madam! sweetheart! Why, bride!
Wife, go you to her ere you go to bed;
Wife, love Lord Hastings, let him kiss your hand;
Will I withal endow a child of thine;
Will conquer him. Awake and win the day.
Will ne'er wear out the everlasting flint.
Will not the Mayor then and his brethren come?
Will now deny to dance? She that makes dainty,
Will prove as bitter, black, and tragical.
Will soon recover his accustom'd health.
Will tempt unto a close exploit of death?
Will they not hear? What, ho! you men, you beasts,
Will to your mother, to entreat of her
Will touch us all too near, if God prevent not.
Will watch thy waking, and that very night
Will well become the seat of majesty
Will you be ready? Do you like this haste?
Will you go to them? I will bring you thither.
Wilt thou not, Jule?' It stinted, and said 'Ay.'
Wilt thou not, Jule?' and, by my holidam,
With Cupid's arrow. She hath Dian's wit,
With Rivers, Vaughan, Grey; and so 'twill do
With Romeo till I behold him- dead-
With Tybalt's slander- Tybalt, that an hour
With all the admired beauties of Verona.
With all your just proceedings in this cause.
With baleful weeds and precious-juiced flowers.
With best advantage will deceive the time
With blood remov'd but little from her own?
With curses in her mouth, tears in her eyes,
With dull unwillingness to repay a debt
With earnest prayers all to that effect.
With gentle breath, calm look, knees humbly bow'd-
With hate in those where I expect most love!
With many moe confederates, are in arms.
With more of thine. This love that thou hast shown
With nimble soles; I have a soul of lead
With odd old ends stol'n forth of holy writ,
With piercing steel at bold Mercutio's breast;
With politic grave counsel; then the King
With purple fountains issuing from your veins!
With reeky shanks and yellow chapless skulls;
With repetition of my Romeo's name.
With reverend fathers and well learned bishops.
With silken, sly, insinuating Jacks?
With smiling plenty, and fair prosperous days!
With some men else that think themselves as safe
With such contempt? Made I him King for this?
With tears augmenting the fresh morning's dew,
With tender Juliet match'd, is now not fair.
With that sour ferryman which poets write of,
With that, methoughts, a legion of foul fiends
With the sweet silent hours of marriage joys.
With this night's revels and expire the term
With thy black mantle till strange love, grown bold,
With thy embracements to my wife's allies,
With twenty hundred thousand times more joy
With what his valour did enrich his wit,
With whom my soul is any jot at odds
Withal I did infer your lineaments,
Withal obdurate, do not hear him plead;
Withal say that the Queen hath heartily consented
Withal, what I have been, and what I am.
Withdraw thee, wretched Margaret. Who comes here?
Within so small a time, my woman's heart
Within the guilty closure of thy walls
Within the infant rind of this small flower
Within their alabaster innocent arms.
Within this hour my man shall be with thee
Within thy help and holy physic lies.
Without a sudden calm will overset
Without control lusted to make a prey.
Without her, follows to myself and thee,
Without that title. Romeo, doff thy name;
Witness my son, now in the shade of death,
Woe's scene, world's shame, grave's due by life usurp'd,
Women may fall when there's no strength in men.
Would I be guilty of so deep a sin.
Would I were sleep and peace, so sweet to rest!
Would be her lord? Or shall I say her uncle?
Would fain have come with me to meet your Grace,
Would long ere this have met us on the way.
Would none but I might venge my cousin's death!
Would not entreat for life?
Would through the airy region stream so bright
Would you imagine, or almost believe-
Wrong hath but wrong, and blame the due of blame.          Exeunt
Yet I should kill thee with much cherishing.
Yet execute Thy wrath in me alone;
Yet from my dugs he drew not this deceit.
Yet know, whe'er you accept our suit or no,
Yet nature's tears are reason's merriment.
Yet none of you would once beg for his life.
Yet one thing more, good Captain, do for me-
Yet so much is my poverty of spirit,
Yet tell me not, for I have heard it all.
Yet that, by you depos'd, you quake like rebels?
Yet to beat down these rebels here at home.
Yet to draw forth your noble ancestry
Yet touch this sparingly, as 'twere far off;
Yet who's so bold but says he sees it not?
Yet witness what you hear we did intend.
Yet, Derby, notwithstanding she's your wife
Yet, since it is but green, it should be put
York.
You are a saucy boy. Is't so, indeed?
You are to blame, my lord, to rate her so.
You are welcome, gentlemen! Come, musicians, play.
You break no privilege nor charter there.
You break not sanctuary in seizing him.
You cannot guess wherefore the Welshman comes.
You cannot guess who caus'd your father's death.
You cannot reason almost with a man
You do him injury to scorn his corse.
You envy my advancement and my friends';
You have been factious one against the other.
You have no cause to hold my friendship doubtful.
You having lands, and bless'd with beauteous wives,
You may jest on, but, by the holy rood,
You must contrary me! Marry, 'tis time.-
You peers, continue this united league.
You said that idle weeds are fast in growth.
You say that Edward is your brother's son.
You shall have letters from me to my son
You should enjoy were you this country's king,
You should not blemish it if I stood by.
You sleep in peace, the tyrant being slain;
You sleeping safe, they bring to you unrest;
You straight are on your knees for pardon, pardon;
You tallow-face!
You will set cock-a-hoop! you'll be the man!
You'll make a mutiny among my guests!
You'll not endure him? God shall mend my soul!
You, Capulet, shall go along with me;
Young Adam Cupid, he that shot so trim
Young Edward lives-think now what I would speak.
Young York he is but boot, because both they
Young son, it argues a distempered head
Young, valiant, wise, and no doubt right royal-
Your Grace attended to their sug'red words
Your Highness shall repose you at the Tower,
Your aery buildeth in our aery's nest.
Your beauty that did haunt me in my sleep
Your blunt upbraidings and your bitter scoffs.
Your bounty, virtue, fair humility;
Your brother's son shall never reign our king;
Your children were vexation to your youth;
Your children's children quits it in your age.
Your country's foes shall pay your pains the hire;
Your discipline in war, wisdom in peace,
Your eyes do menace me. Why look you pale?
Your fire-new stamp of honour is scarce current.
Your first is dead- or 'twere as good he were
Your friends are up and buckle on their armour.
Your friends at Pomfret, they do need the priest:
Your gracious self to take on you the charge
Your high displeasure. All this- uttered
Your honour hath no shriving work in hand.
Your lady's love against some other maid
Your lives shall pay the forfeit of the peace.
Your looks are pale and wild and do import
Your love deserves my thanks, but my desert
Your mere enforcement shall acquittance me
Your mother lives a witness to his vow-
Your part in her you could not keep from death,
Your right of birth, your empery, your own.
Your son, George Stanley. Look your heart be firm,
Your state of fortune and your due of birth,
Your tributary drops belong to woe,
Your very worshipful and loving friends,
Your widow-dolour likewise be unwept!
Your wives shall welcome home the conquerors;
Your worship in that sense may call him man.
[Aside]  For they account his head upon the bridge.
[Aside]  Thus, like the formal vice, Iniquity,
[Gives back the paper.] A fair assembly. Whither should they come?
[To ANNE]  Come, madam, you must straight to
[To ANNE]  Go thou to Richard, and good angels tend
[To CATESBY]  Go thou to Friar Penker. Bid them both
[To RICHMOND]   Quiet untroubled soul, awake, awake!
[To RICHMOND]  Be cheerful, Richmond; for the wronged
[To RICHMOND]  I died for hope ere I could lend thee aid;
[To RICHMOND]  Sleep, Richmond, sleep in peace, and
[To RICHMOND]  Thou offspring of the house of Lancaster,
[To RICHMOND]  Thou quiet soul, sleep thou a quiet sleep;
[To RICHMOND]  Virtuous and holy, be thou conqueror!
[sings] lady, lady, lady.
a hole.
a letter?
addle as an egg for quarrelling. Thou hast quarrell'd with a man
against yourself.
all together.
am a pretty piece of flesh.
an egg is full of meat; and yet thy head hath been beaten as
and a kind, and a handsome; and, I warrant, a virtuous- Where is
and crush a cup of wine. Rest you merry!               Exit.
and every man that means to live well endeavours to trust
and is he a man to encounter Tybalt?
and they unwash'd too, 'tis a foul thing.
and with guilty fear
anon.
any man's, yet his leg excels all men's; and for a hand and a
are past compare. He is not the flower of courtesy, but, I'll
are yet within me.
arms;
arms;
art as well as by nature. For this drivelling love is like a
as another man, if I see occasion in a good quarrel, and the law
at me?
away?
babes!
banishment
be damn'd for killing him, from the which no warrant can
been!
behaviour, as they say; for the gentlewoman is young; and
bench? O, their bones, their bones!
beseech Him!
better love to berhyme her), Dido a dowdy, Cleopatra a gypsy,
better.
bluntly?
body
bolder;
born.
borne
bosom.
boy.                                               Exit PAGE
break.
bred a kind of remorse in me.
brother Gloucester:
brother!
brothers,
but 'tis enough, 'twill serve. Ask for me to-morrow, and you
but not to the purpose. Signior Romeo, bon jour! There's a French
butcher of a silk button, a duellist, a duellist! a gentleman of
by too, and suffer every knave to use me at his pleasure!
came you between us? I was hurt under your arm.
cannot sum up sum of half my wealth.
cannot swear, but it checks him; a man cannot lie with his
case as mine a man may strain courtesy.
chamber.
cheerfully.
children?
choose a man. Romeo? No, not he. Though his face be better than
come to the whole depth of my tale, and meant indeed to occupy
confines of a tavern, claps me his sword upon the table and says
counsel,
courageous captain of compliments. He fights as you sing
coward: a man cannot steal, but it accuseth him; a man
crown
crown-
crown?
cup draws him on the drawer, when indeed there is no need.
dared.
daughter.
dear Lord,
death?
death?                                      [He strikes him]
deceive yourself:
defend me.
defend.
determine.
dinner.
disgrace to them, if they bear it.
dispatch'd!
done.
doomsday.
doth turn his hate
drum.
dry-beat the rest of the eight. Will you pluck your sword out of
duty,
entreats.
ere it be out.
ever thrust to the wall. Therefore I will push Montague's men
everything in extremity. I must hence to wait. I beseech you
fac'd spirit that mutinies in a man's bosom; it fills a man
fairly last night.
fast?
faults,
fiddlestick; here's that shall make you dance. Zounds, consort!
field.
fingers. Therefore he that cannot lick his fingers goes not with
flies, these fashion-mongers, these pardona-mi's, who stand so
flirt-gills; I am none of his skains-mates. And thou must stand
follow straight.
foot, and a body, though they be not to be talk'd on, yet they
for coughing in the street, because he hath wakened thy dog that
for sounding.
for the goose.
for tying his new shoes with an old riband? And yet thou wilt
for, in the great chamber.
fortune guide thee!
fortune!
found him than he was when you sought him. I am the youngest of
from the wall and thrust his maids to the wall.
full of obstacles: it made me once restore a purse of gold
gentlemen,
gnaws his lip.
go?
gold
gone!
gone.
goose, proves thee far and wide a broad goose.
grandsir, that we should be thus afflicted with these strange
grave
great natural that runs lolling up and down to hide his bauble in
hag.
hand
harms.
hast more of the wild goose in one of thy wits than, I am sure, I
hates you.
hath lain asleep in the sun. Didst thou not fall out with a
have in my whole five. Was I with you there for the goose?
he is?
he wakes.
heads
heads?
height
help'st me not?
her king?
her sometimes, and tell her that Paris is the properer man; but
here
here writ, and can never find what names the writing person hath
here writ. I must to the learned. In good time!
herein?
him not; he would insinuate with thee but to make the
him see our commission and talk no more.
him.
him.
him?
his mind.
his nets; but I am sent to find those persons whose names are
his pitcher by the ears? Make haste, lest mine be about your ears
hither on my legs.
hither, Tyrrel.
hold me but while one tells twenty.
ill thing to be off'red to any gentlewoman, and very weak dealing.
immortal passado! the punto reverse! the hay.
in the versal world. Doth not rosemary and Romeo begin both with
in. Laura, to his lady, was but a kitchen wench (marry, she had a
into a fool's paradise, as they say, it were a very gross kind of
is 'music with her silver sound' because musicians have no gold
is get afire by thine own ignorance,
it begins with some other letter; and she hath the prettiest
it, is a gentlemanlike offer.
judgment-day.
keep to myself; but first let me tell ye, if ye should lead her
kill'd him.
knocks.                                      Exit GLOUCESTER
knowest it not.-
lady.
lambs
last?
league
live long.
man to bow in the hams.
man!
man! a very good whore!' Why, is not this a lamentable thing,
master's kinsmen.
matter.
me.
me.
me?
me?
mean to make bold withal, and, as you shall use me hereafter,
mine own.
minim rest, one, two, and the third in your bosom! the very
minstrels of us, look to hear nothing but discords. Here's my
morning;
most reverend,
mother.
mourners, and stay dinner.
mouse, a cat, to scratch a man to death! a braggart, a rogue, a
mov'd mine.
moved.
much on the new form that they cannot sit at ease on the old
my Lord.
my lord.
my young lady bid me enquire you out. What she bid me say, I will
narrow to an ell broad!
neighbour's wife, but it detects him. 'Tis a blushing shame-
never be.
new tuners of accent! 'By Jesu, a very good blade! a very tall
next room.
nights?
none will entertain it.
none.
north,
not he?
not so?
not?
o'erpast;
occasion.
of Derby,
of woe.' O, play me some merry dump to comfort me.
on my side.
on thee
one would kill the other. Thou! why, thou wilt quarrel with a man
passionate humour of mine will change; it was wont to
peers,
perceive
persuading me not to kill the Duke.
pierce like mine.                                       Exit
poor-John. Draw thy tool! Here comes two of the house of
prate;
pricksong-keeps time, distance, and proportion; rests me his
pump, that, when the single sole of it is worn, the jest may
quivers. Scurvy knave! Pray you, sir, a word; and, as I told you,
read anything you see?
reason but because thou hast hazel eyes. What eye but such an eye
reign.
remain, after the wearing, solely singular.
remember
reputation. Come, shall we fall to work?
reward, thy conscience flies out.
salutation to your French slop. You gave us the counterfeit
sanctuary.
sententious of it, of you and rosemary, that it would do you good
shall find me a grave man. I am peppered, I warrant, for this
shalt hear me.
should be?
should quickly have been out, I warrant you. I dare draw as soon
shoulders
shrewd.
sigh.
sight?
sleeping.
something stale and hoar ere it be spent
son.
soul to-morrow,
soul, had as lieve see a toad, a very toad, as see him. I anger
soul.
souls
sovereignty.
speak more in a minute than he will stand to in a month.
spring.
still-lasting war.
stroke
tailor for wearing his new doublet before Easter, with another
tears.
tell him so.
tell me.
that hath a hair more or a hair less in his beard than thou hast.
that name, for fault of a worse.
that the shoemaker should meddle with his yard and the tailor
that-by chance I found. It beggars any man that keeps it.
the Tower.
the argument no longer.
the fee simple of my life for an hour and a quarter.
the hearing;
the two.
the very first house, of the first and second cause. Ah, the
thee!  [To QUEEN ELIZABETH]  Go thou to sanctuary, and good
thee-
their cloaks;
their fingers.
their heads.
then?
therefore, if you should deal double with her, truly it were an
they not speak?
thine.
this that was so full of his ropery?
this will not do,
thither,
thou fishified! Now is he for the numbers that Petrarch flowed
thou hither?
thou loves me, let the porter let in Susan Grindstone and Nell.
thou sociable, now art thou Romeo; now art thou what thou art, by
thoughts possess thee!
thumb, sir.
thy colour,
thy soul despair!
thy sword, and then chop him in the malmsey-butt in the
time
title!
to hear it.
to himself and live without it.
to the crown;
to the plate. Good thou, save me a piece of marchpane and, as
to us,
to-morrow!
to-morrow! I that was wash'd to death with fulsome wine,
told.
town, one Paris, that would fain lay knife aboard; but she, good
traitor
tutor me from quarrelling!
unmindfull villain,
unto it.
upon the prick of noon.
usurp'd.
very pin of his heart cleft with the blind bow-boy's butt-shaft;
villain, that fights by the book of arithmetic! Why the devil
wake in joy;
wall of any man or maid of Montague's.
wall.
warrant him, as gentle as a lamb. Go thy ways, wench; serve God.
warrant,
weep,
well.
well.
well:
wench's black eye; shot through the ear with a love song; the
were lustier than he is, and twenty such jacks; and if I cannot,
when 'twas a little prating thing- O, there is a nobleman in
wisely.
wit, and put up my iron dagger. Answer me like men.
with him?
with his last, the fisher with his pencil and the painter with
with me?
with the men, I will be cruel with the maids- I will cut off
with thine!
work again.
work.
world,
world.
world. A plague o' both your houses! Zounds, a dog, a rat, a
would spy out such a quarrel? Thy head is as full of quarrels as
wreck;
years
you well.                       Exeunt BRAKENBURY and KEEPER
you.
young lady ask'd for, the nurse curs'd in the pantry, and
your Grace
your Grace,
your mother?
yourself.
1. Mus. An you re us and fa us, you note us.
1. Mus. Ay, by my troth, the case may be amended.
1. Mus. Faith, we may put up our pipes and be gone.
1. Mus. Marry, sir, because silver hath a sweet sound.
1. Mus. No.
1. Mus. Not a dump we! 'Tis no time to play now.
1. Mus. Then will I give you the serving-creature.
1. Mus. What a pestilent knave is this same?
1. Mus. What will you give us?
1. Mus. Why 'Heart's ease'',
1. Serv. Away with the join-stools, remove the court-cubbert, look
1. Serv. Where's Potpan, that he helps not to take away?
1. Serv. You are look'd for and call'd for, ask'd for and sought
2. Cap. 'Tis more, 'tis more! His son is elder, sir;
2. Cap. By'r Lady, thirty years.
2. Mus. Hang him, Jack! Come, we'll in here, tarry for the
2. Mus. I say 'silver sound' because musicians sound for silver.
2. Mus. Pray you put up your dagger, and put out your wit.
2. Serv. Ay, boy, ready.
2. Serv. When good manners shall lie all in one or two men's hands,
3. Mus. Faith, I know not what to say.
3. Serv. We cannot be here and there too. Cheerly, boys!
ALL.  [To RICHMOND]  Awake, and think our wrongs in
ALL. Amen.
ANNE. 'Tis more than you deserve;
ANNE. Adieu, poor soul, that tak'st thy leave of it!
ANNE. All men, I hope, live so.
ANNE. And I with all unwillingness will go.
ANNE. And by despairing shalt thou stand excused
ANNE. And thou unfit for any place but hell.
ANNE. Arise, dissembler; though I wish thy death,
ANNE. Black night o'ershade thy day, and death thy life!
ANNE. Despiteful tidings! O unpleasing news!
ANNE. Dost grant me, hedgehog? Then, God grant me to
ANNE. Fouler than heart can think thee, thou canst make
ANNE. God give your Graces both
ANNE. He is in heaven, where thou shalt never come.
ANNE. His better doth not breathe upon the earth.
ANNE. I fear me both are false.
ANNE. I have already.
ANNE. I hope so.
ANNE. I would I knew thy heart.
ANNE. I would I were, to be reveng'd on thee.
ANNE. If I thought that, I tell thee, homicide,
ANNE. Ill rest betide the chamber where thou liest!
ANNE. In thy foul throat thou liest: Queen Margaret saw
ANNE. It is a quarrel just and reasonable,
ANNE. Name him.
ANNE. Never hung poison on a fouler toad.
ANNE. No farther than the Tower; and, as I guess,
ANNE. No more than with my soul I mourn for yours.
ANNE. No, why? When he that is my husband now
ANNE. O wonderful, when devils tell the truth!
ANNE. Some dungeon.
ANNE. That shalt thou know hereafter.
ANNE. Their aunt I am in law, in love their mother.
ANNE. Then say they were not slain.
ANNE. Thou wast provoked by thy bloody mind,
ANNE. Thou wast the cause and most accurs'd effect.
ANNE. To take is not to give.               [Puts on the ring]
ANNE. Vouchsafe, diffus'd infection of a man,
ANNE. What is it?
ANNE. Where is he?
ANNE. Why, that was he.
ANNE. Why, then he is alive.
ANNE. With all my heart; and much it joys me too
ANNE. Would it were mortal poison, for thy sake!
ANNE. Would they were basilisks to strike thee dead!
ANNE. well put up your sword.
ARCHBISHOP.  [To the QUEEN]  My gracious lady, go.
ARCHBISHOP. And so no doubt he is, my gracious madam.
ARCHBISHOP. For what offence?
ARCHBISHOP. Good madam, be not angry with the child.
ARCHBISHOP. Here comes a messenger. What news?
ARCHBISHOP. Last night, I hear, they lay at Stony Stratford,
Abr. Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
Abr. Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
Abr. No better.
Abr. Quarrel, sir? No, sir.
Abr. You lie.
Abram, servant to Montague.
An Apothecary.
An Officer.
An old Man, of the Capulet family.
Apoth. My poverty but not my will consents.
Apoth. Put this in any liquid thing you will
Apoth. Such mortal drugs I have; but Mantua's law
Apoth. Who calls so loud?
BISHOP OF ELY. In happy time, here comes the Duke himself.
BISHOP OF ELY. To-morrow then I judge a happy day.
BISHOP OF ELY. Where is my lord the Duke of Gloucester?
BISHOP OF ELY. Your Grace, we think, should soonest know
BISHOP of ELY. Marry and will, my lord, with all my heart.
BLUNT. He hath no friends but what are friends for fear,
BLUNT. Unless I have mista'en his colours much-
BLUNT. Upon my life, my lord, I'll undertake it;
BOTH MURDERERS. Ay, ay.
BRAKENBURY. I am, in this, commanded to deliver
BRAKENBURY. I mean the Lord Protector.
BRAKENBURY. No, madam, no. I may not leave it so;
BRAKENBURY. Right well, dear madam. By your patience,
BRAKENBURY. Sorrow breaks seasons and reposing hours,
BRAKENBURY. What wouldst thou, fellow, and how cam'st
BRAKENBURY. What, so brief?
BUCKINGHAM.  [Aside]  And supper too, although thou
BUCKINGHAM.  [To the QUEEN]  Whenever Buckingham
BUCKINGHAM. Ah ha, my lord, this prince is not an Edward!
BUCKINGHAM. And is it thus? Repays he my deep service
BUCKINGHAM. And, in good time,
BUCKINGHAM. And, in good time, here comes the sweating
BUCKINGHAM. Ay, madam; he desires to make atonement
BUCKINGHAM. Doubt not, my lord, I'll play the orator
BUCKINGHAM. Even that, I hope, which pleaseth God above,
BUCKINGHAM. Fie, what an indirect and peevish course
BUCKINGHAM. Give me some little breath, some pause,
BUCKINGHAM. Go, go, up to the leads; the Lord Mayor
BUCKINGHAM. God and our innocence defend and guard us!
BUCKINGHAM. Good Catesby, go effect this business soundly.
BUCKINGHAM. Good time of day unto your royal Grace!
BUCKINGHAM. Had you not come upon your cue, my lord,
BUCKINGHAM. Hark! a drum.
BUCKINGHAM. Hastings, and Edward's children, Grey, and
BUCKINGHAM. Have done, have done.
BUCKINGHAM. He did, my gracious lord, begin that place,
BUCKINGHAM. I am thus bold to put your Grace in mind
BUCKINGHAM. I did; with his contract with Lady Lucy,
BUCKINGHAM. I do, my lord, but long I cannot stay there;
BUCKINGHAM. I fear he will. Here Catesby comes again.
BUCKINGHAM. I go; and towards three or four o'clock
BUCKINGHAM. I hear the news, my lord.
BUCKINGHAM. I'll claim that promise at your Grace's hand.
BUCKINGHAM. If you refuse it-as, in love and zeal,
BUCKINGHAM. Is all things ready for the royal time?
BUCKINGHAM. Know then, it is your fault that you resign
BUCKINGHAM. Look I so pale, Lord Dorset, as the rest?
BUCKINGHAM. Lord Mayor, the reason we have sent-
BUCKINGHAM. Lord Mayor-
BUCKINGHAM. Madam, good hope; his Grace speaks
BUCKINGHAM. Marry, my lord, lest by a multitude
BUCKINGHAM. May it please you to resolve me in my suit.
BUCKINGHAM. My gracious sovereign?
BUCKINGHAM. My hair doth stand an end to hear her curses.
BUCKINGHAM. My lord, I claim the gift, my due by promise,
BUCKINGHAM. My lord, this argues conscience in your
BUCKINGHAM. My lord, whoever journeys to the Prince,
BUCKINGHAM. My lord, your promise for the earldom-
BUCKINGHAM. My lord-
BUCKINGHAM. My lord-
BUCKINGHAM. No, so God help me, they spake not a word;
BUCKINGHAM. Nor no one here; for curses never pass
BUCKINGHAM. Northumberland, then present, wept to see it.
BUCKINGHAM. Nothing that I respect, my gracious lord.
BUCKINGHAM. Now, by the holy Mother of our Lord,
BUCKINGHAM. Now, in good time, here comes the Duke of
BUCKINGHAM. Now, my lord, what shall we do if we
BUCKINGHAM. Peace, peace, for shame, if not for charity!
BUCKINGHAM. Refuse not, mighty lord, this proffer'd love.
BUCKINGHAM. Return, good Catesby, to the gracious Duke;
BUCKINGHAM. Say on, my loving lord.
BUCKINGHAM. Sorry I am my noble cousin should
BUCKINGHAM. Still live they, and for ever let them last!
BUCKINGHAM. The Mayor is here at hand. Intend some fear;
BUCKINGHAM. Then I salute you with this royal title-
BUCKINGHAM. Think you, my lord, this little prating York
BUCKINGHAM. To-morrow may it please you to be crown'd?
BUCKINGHAM. To-morrow, then, we will attend your Grace;
BUCKINGHAM. True, noble Prince.
BUCKINGHAM. Tut, I can counterfeit the deep tragedian;
BUCKINGHAM. Two props of virtue for a Christian prince,
BUCKINGHAM. Upon record, my gracious lord.
BUCKINGHAM. Upon the stroke of ten.
BUCKINGHAM. We know each other's faces; for our hearts,
BUCKINGHAM. We wait upon your Grace.                    Exeunt
BUCKINGHAM. Welcome, sweet Prince, to London, to your
BUCKINGHAM. Well then, no more but this: go, gentle
BUCKINGHAM. Well, let them rest. Come hither, Catesby.
BUCKINGHAM. Well, well, he was the covert'st shelt'red
BUCKINGHAM. What says your Highness to my just request?
BUCKINGHAM. What think'st thou then of Stanley? Will
BUCKINGHAM. What, my gracious lord?
BUCKINGHAM. What, talking with a priest, Lord
BUCKINGHAM. Which since you come too late of our intent,
BUCKINGHAM. Who knows the Lord Protector's mind
BUCKINGHAM. Why let it strike?
BUCKINGHAM. Why, so you are, my thrice-renowned lord.
BUCKINGHAM. Why, then All-Souls' day is my body's
BUCKINGHAM. Will not King Richard let me speak with
BUCKINGHAM. With what a sharp-provided wit he reasons!
BUCKINGHAM. Withdraw yourself awhile; I'll go with you.
BUCKINGHAM. Yet had we not determin'd he should die
BUCKINGHAM. You are too senseless-obstinate, my lord,
BUCKINGHAM. You cloudy princes and heart-sorrowing
BUCKINGHAM. You have, my lord. Would it might please
BUCKINGHAM. Your Grace may do your pleasure.
Balthasar, servant to Romeo.
Ben. A right fair mark, fair coz, is soonest hit.
Ben. Alas that love, so gentle in his view,
Ben. Am I like such a fellow?
Ben. An I were so apt to quarrel as thou art, any man should buy
Ben. An if he hear thee, thou wilt anger him.
Ben. And what to?
Ben. At this same ancient feast of Capulet's
Ben. At thy good heart's oppression.
Ben. Away, be gone; the sport is at the best.
Ben. Be rul'd by me: forget to think of her.
Ben. But new struck nine.
Ben. By giving liberty unto thine eyes.
Ben. By my head, here come the Capulets.
Ben. Come, he hath hid himself among these trees
Ben. Come, knock and enter; and no sooner in
Ben. For what, I pray thee?
Ben. Go then, for 'tis in vain
Ben. Good morrow, cousin.
Ben. Groan? Why, no;
Ben. Have you importun'd him by any means?
Ben. He ran this way, and leapt this orchard wall.
Ben. Here comes Romeo! here comes Romeo!
Ben. Here comes the furious Tybalt back again.
Ben. Here were the servants of your adversary
Ben. I aim'd so near when I suppos'd you lov'd.
Ben. I do but keep the peace. Put up thy sword,
Ben. I pray thee, good Mercutio, let's retire.
Ben. I'll pay that doctrine, or else die in debt.      Exeunt.
Ben. In love?
Ben. It was. What sadness lengthens Romeo's hours?
Ben. Madam, an hour before the worshipp'd sun
Ben. My noble uncle, do you know the cause?
Ben. Nay, he will answer the letter's master, how he dares, being
Ben. No, coz, I rather weep.
Ben. Not to his father's. I spoke with his man.
Ben. O Romeo, Romeo, brave Mercutio's dead!
Ben. O noble Prince. I can discover all
Ben. Of love?
Ben. Part, fools! [Beats down their swords.]
Ben. Romeo will answer it.
Ben. Romeo! my cousin Romeo! Romeo!
Ben. Romeo, away, be gone!
Ben. See, where he comes. So please you step aside,
Ben. She will endite him to some supper.
Ben. Soft! I will go along.
Ben. Stop there, stop there!
Ben. Strike, drum.
Ben. Tell me in sadness, who is that you love?
Ben. The date is out of such prolixity.
Ben. The what?
Ben. Then she hath sworn that she will still live chaste?
Ben. There lies that Tybalt.
Ben. This wind you talk of blows us from ourselves.
Ben. Thou wouldst else have made thy tale large.
Ben. Tut! you saw her fair, none else being by,
Ben. Tut, man, one fire burns out another's burning;
Ben. Two, two! a shirt and a smock.
Ben. Tybalt, here slain, whom Romeo's hand did stay.
Ben. Tybalt, the kinsman to old Capulet,
Ben. We talk here in the public haunt of men.
Ben. What, art thou hurt?
Ben. Why dost thou stay?
Ben. Why, Romeo, art thou mad?
Ben. Why, what is Tybalt?
Benvolio, nephew to Montague, and friend to Romeo
CARDINAL. My Lord of Buckingham, if my weak oratory
CARDINAL. My lord, you shall o'errule my mind for once.
CATESBY.  [Aside to another]  The King is angry; see, he
CATESBY. 'Tis a vile thing to die, my gracious lord,
CATESBY. Ay, my good lord.
CATESBY. Ay, on my life; and hopes to find you forward
CATESBY. Call him again, sweet Prince, accept their suit.
CATESBY. First, mighty liege, tell me your Highness' pleasure,
CATESBY. God keep your lordship in that gracious mind!
CATESBY. He doth entreat your Grace, my noble lord,
CATESBY. He for his father's sake so loves the Prince
CATESBY. He will do all in all as Hastings doth.
CATESBY. Here, my good lord.
CATESBY. I go.                                            Exit
CATESBY. I will my lord, with all convenient haste.
CATESBY. I'll signify so much unto him straight.          Exit
CATESBY. It is a reeling world indeed, my lord;
CATESBY. It is, my liege; and all things are in readiness.
CATESBY. It's supper-time, my lord;
CATESBY. Madam, his Majesty doth can for you,
CATESBY. Many good morrows to my noble lord!
CATESBY. My good lords both, with all the heed I can.
CATESBY. My liege, the Duke of Buckingham is taken-
CATESBY. My lord,
CATESBY. My lord?
CATESBY. O, make them joyful, grant their lawful suit!
CATESBY. Rescue, my Lord of Norfolk, rescue, rescue!
CATESBY. The Princes both make high account of you-
CATESBY. Withdraw, my lord! I'll help you to a horse.
CATESBY. You shall, my lord.
CHILDREN. Ah for our father, for our dear Lord Clarence!
CHILDREN. Were never orphans had so dear a loss.
CHILDREN. What stay had we but Clarence? and he's gone.
CHRISTOPHER. At Pembroke, or at Ha'rford west in Wales.
CHRISTOPHER. Sir Walter Herbert, a renowned soldier;
CLARENCE. Ah, Keeper, Keeper, I have done these things
CLARENCE. Alas! for whose sake did I that ill deed?
CLARENCE. Are you drawn forth among a world of men
CLARENCE. But not as I am, royal.
CLARENCE. Erroneous vassals! the great King of kings
CLARENCE. Have you that holy feeling in your souls
CLARENCE. How darkly and how deadly dost thou speak!
CLARENCE. I shall be reconcil'd to him again.
CLARENCE. If you do love my brother, hate not me;
CLARENCE. In God's name, what art thou?
CLARENCE. Methought I had; and often did I strive
CLARENCE. Methoughts that I had broken from the Tower
CLARENCE. My brother's love, the devil, and my rage.
CLARENCE. No, no, my dream was lengthen'd after life.
CLARENCE. Not to relent is beastly, savage, devilish.
CLARENCE. O, I have pass'd a miserable night,
CLARENCE. O, do not slander him, for he is kind.
CLARENCE. O, no, he loves me, and he holds me dear.
CLARENCE. Relent, and save your souls.
CLARENCE. Tell him when that our princely father York
CLARENCE. Thy voice is thunder, but thy looks are humble.
CLARENCE. To murder me?
CLARENCE. Where art thou, Keeper? Give me a cup of wine.
CLARENCE. You scarcely have the hearts to tell me so,
Cap. A jealous hood, a jealous hood!
Cap. All things that we ordained festival
Cap. And too soon marr'd are those so early made.
Cap. And why, my Lady Wisdom? Hold your tongue,
Cap. But Montague is bound as well as I,
Cap. But saying o'er what I have said before:
Cap. Come, stir, stir, stir! The second cock hath crow'd,
Cap. Content thee, gentle coz, let him alone.
Cap. Death, that hath ta'en her hence to make me wail,
Cap. Despis'd, distressed, hated, martyr'd, kill'd!
Cap. Go to, go to!
Cap. Go, begone.
Cap. Go, nurse, go with her. We'll to church to-morrow.
Cap. God's bread I it makes me mad. Day, night, late, early,
Cap. Ha! let me see her. Out alas! she's cold,
Cap. Hang thee, young baggage! disobedient wretch!
Cap. He shall be endur'd.
Cap. How canst thou try them so?
Cap. How now, my headstrong? Where have you been gadding?
Cap. How, how, how, how, choplogic? What is this?
Cap. Make haste, make haste. [Exit Fellow.] Sirrah, fetch drier
Cap. Mass, and well said; a merry whoreson, ha!
Cap. Monday! ha, ha! Well, Wednesday is too soon.
Cap. My sword, I say! Old Montague is come
Cap. Nay, gentlemen, prepare not to be gone;
Cap. No, not a whit. What, I have watch'd ere now
Cap. O, God-i-god-en!
Cap. Peace, you mumbling fool!
Cap. Ready to go, but never to return.
Cap. Send for the County. Go tell him of this.
Cap. Sir Paris, I will make a desperate tender
Cap. So many guests invite as here are writ.
Cap. Soft! take me with you, take me with you, wife.
Cap. Things have fall'n out, sir, so unluckily
Cap. Tush, I will stir about,
Cap. Welcome, gentlemen! Ladies that have their toes
Cap. Well, be may chance to do some good on her.
Cap. Well, get you gone. A Thursday be it then.
Cap. What noise is this? Give me my long sword, ho!
Cap. What, man? 'Tis not so much, 'tis not so much!
Cap. When the sun sets the air doth drizzle dew,
Cap. Why, I am glad on't. This is well. Stand up.
Cap. Why, how now, kinsman? Wherefore storm you so?
Cap. Wife. He is a kinsman to the Montague;
Cap. Wife. Tybalt, my cousin! O my brother's child!
Cap. Will you tell me that?
Cap. Young Romeo is it?
Capulet, heads of two houses at variance with each other.
Chor. Now old desire doth in his deathbed lie,
Chor. Two households, both alike in dignity,
Chorus.
Citizen. Up, sir, go with me.
Citizen. Which way ran he that kill'd Mercutio?
Citizens of Verona; Gentlemen and Gentlewomen of both houses;
Citizens. Down with the Capulets! Down with the Montagues!
DAUGHTER. And so will I.
DAUGHTER. Our fatherless distress was left unmoan'd;
DAUGHTER. Why do you weep so oft, and beat your breast,
DERBY. A boon, my sovereign, for my service done!
DERBY. But now the Duke of Buckingham and I
DERBY. Courageous Richmond, well hast thou acquit thee!
DERBY. Fortune and victory sit on thy helm!
DERBY. God make your Majesty joyful as you have been.
DERBY. He is, my lord, and safe in Leicester town,
DERBY. I Will not rise unless your Highness hear me.
DERBY. I do beseech you, either not believe
DERBY. I, by attorney, bless thee from thy mother,
DERBY. It is, and wants but nomination.
DERBY. John Duke of Norfolk, Walter Lord Ferrers,
DERBY. The forfeit, sovereign, of my servant's life;
DERBY. We have not yet set down this day of triumph.
DERBY. What of his heart perceive you in his face
DORSET. Ay, my good lord; and no man in the presence
DORSET. Be of good cheer; mother, how fares your Grace?
DORSET. Comfort, dear mother. God is much displeas'd
DORSET. Dispute not with her; she is lunatic.
DORSET. Farewell, thou woeful welcomer of glory!
DORSET. It touches you, my lord, as much as me.
DORSET. No man but prophesied revenge for it.
DORSET. This interchange of love, I here protest,
DUCHESS.  [To DORSET]  Go thou to Richmond, and good
DUCHESS. Accursed and unquiet wrangling days,
DUCHESS. Ah, so much interest have I in thy sorrow
DUCHESS. Ah, that deceit should steal such gentle shape,
DUCHESS. Alas for both, both mine, Edward and Clarence!
DUCHESS. Art thou my son?
DUCHESS. Art thou so hasty? I have stay'd for thee,
DUCHESS. Ay, boy.
DUCHESS. Dead life, blind sight, poor mortal living ghost,
DUCHESS. Either thou wilt die by God's just ordinance
DUCHESS. God bless thee; and put meekness in thy breast,
DUCHESS. Good faith, good faith, the saying did not hold
DUCHESS. Hear me a word;
DUCHESS. His nurse! Why she was dead ere thou wast
DUCHESS. How, my young York? I prithee let me hear it.
DUCHESS. I am their father's mother; I will see them.
DUCHESS. I had a Richard too, and thou didst kill him;
DUCHESS. I hope he is; but yet let mothers doubt.
DUCHESS. I long with all my heart to see the Prince.
DUCHESS. I prithee hear me speak.
DUCHESS. I prithee, pretty York, who told thee this?
DUCHESS. I will be mild and gentle in my words.
DUCHESS. If so, then be not tongue-tied. Go with me,
DUCHESS. My pretty cousins, you mistake me both;
DUCHESS. No, boy.
DUCHESS. No, by the holy rood, thou know'st it well
DUCHESS. O Harry's wife, triumph not in my woes!
DUCHESS. O ill-dispersing wind of misery!
DUCHESS. O, let me speak!
DUCHESS. O, she that might have intercepted thee,
DUCHESS. Peace, children, peace! The King doth love you
DUCHESS. So many miseries have craz'd my voice
DUCHESS. Stay, I will go with you.
DUCHESS. Then patiently hear my impatience.
DUCHESS. Thou toad, thou toad, where is thy brother
DUCHESS. Was never mother had so dear a loss.
DUCHESS. What is thy news?
DUCHESS. What means this scene of rude impatience?
DUCHESS. What stays had I but they? and they are gone.
DUCHESS. Where is kind Hastings?
DUCHESS. Who hath committed them?
DUCHESS. Who meets us here? My niece Plantagenet,
DUCHESS. Why should calamity be fun of words?
DUCHESS. Why, my good cousin, it is good to grow.
EDWARD, my lord, thy son, our king, is dead.
Enter Friar [Laurence] and the County [Paris], with Musicians.
Enter Prince [attended], Old Montague, Capulet, their Wives,
Enter three or four [Fellows, with spits and logs and baskets.
Escalus, Prince of Verona.
FIRST CITIZEN. Come, come, we fear the worst; all will be
FIRST CITIZEN. Give you good morrow, sir.
FIRST CITIZEN. Good morrow, neighbour. Whither away so
FIRST CITIZEN. No, no; by God's good grace, his son shall
FIRST CITIZEN. So stood the state when Henry the Sixth
FIRST CITIZEN. Why, so hath this, both by his father and
FIRST CITIZEN. Yes, that the King is dead.
FIRST MURDERER-How now, what mean'st thou that thou
FIRST MURDERER.  [Stabbing him]  Take that, and that. If all
FIRST MURDERER. A man, as you are.
FIRST MURDERER. And like a traitor to the name of God
FIRST MURDERER. Ay, millstones; as he lesson'd us to weep.
FIRST MURDERER. Ay, so we will.
FIRST MURDERER. Ho! who's here?
FIRST MURDERER. How canst thou urge God's dreadful law
FIRST MURDERER. How dost thou feel thyself now?
FIRST MURDERER. I am strong-fram'd; he cannot prevail with
FIRST MURDERER. I thought thou hadst been resolute.
FIRST MURDERER. I would speak with Clarence, and I came
FIRST MURDERER. I'll back to the Duke of Gloucester and
FIRST MURDERER. My voice is now the King's, my looks
FIRST MURDERER. No, we'll reason with him.
FIRST MURDERER. No; he'll say 'twas done cowardly, when
FIRST MURDERER. Offended us you have not, but the King.
FIRST MURDERER. Relent! No, 'tis cowardly and womanish.
FIRST MURDERER. Remember our reward, when the deed's
FIRST MURDERER. Right, as snow in harvest. Come, you
FIRST MURDERER. So do not I. Go, coward as thou art.
FIRST MURDERER. Soft! he wakes.
FIRST MURDERER. Take him on the costard with the hilts of
FIRST MURDERER. Thy brother's love, our duty, and thy
FIRST MURDERER. Tut, tut, my lord, we will not stand to
FIRST MURDERER. We are, my lord, and come to have the
FIRST MURDERER. We will, my noble lord.                 Exeunt
FIRST MURDERER. What if it come to thee again?
FIRST MURDERER. What we will do, we do upon command.
FIRST MURDERER. What, art thou afraid?
FIRST MURDERER. When he opens his purse to give us our
FIRST MURDERER. Where's thy conscience now?
FIRST MURDERER. Who made thee then a bloody minister
FIRST MURDERER. Why, so he doth, when he delivers you
FIRST MURDERER. Why, then he'll say we stabb'd him
FIRST MURDERER. You may, sir; 'tis a point of wisdom. Fare
FIRST MURDERER. Zounds, 'tis even now at my elbow,
FOURTH MESSENGER. Sir Thomas Lovel and Lord Marquis
Father. For shame, bring Juliet forth; her lord is come.
Fellow. I have a head, sir, that will find out logs
Fellow. Things for the cook, sir; but I know not what.
Friar John, Franciscan.
Friar Laurence, Franciscan.
Friar. A gentler judgment vanish'd from his lips-
Friar. Ah, Juliet, I already know thy grief;
Friar. Arise; one knocks. Good Romeo, hide thyself.
Friar. Be plain, good son, and homely in thy drift
Friar. Benedicite!
Friar. Come, come with me, and we will make short work;
Friar. Come, is the bride ready to go to church?
Friar. For doting, not for loving, pupil mine.
Friar. Go hence; good night; and here stands all your state:
Friar. God pardon sin! Wast thou with Rosaline?
Friar. Hark, how they knock! Who's there? Romeo, arise;
Friar. Hence from Verona art thou banished.
Friar. Hold thy desperate hand.
Friar. Hold! Get you gone, be strong and prosperous
Friar. Hold, daughter. I do spy a kind of hope,
Friar. Hold, then. Go home, be merry, give consent
Friar. Holy Saint Francis! What a change is here!
Friar. I'll give thee armour to keep off that word;
Friar. Let me dispute with thee of thy estate.
Friar. My leisure serves me, pensive daughter, now.
Friar. Not in a grave
Friar. O deadly sin! O rude unthankfulness!
Friar. O woeful sympathy!
Friar. O, she knew well
Friar. O, then I see that madmen have no ears.
Friar. On Thursday, sir? The time is very short.
Friar. Peace, ho, for shame! Confusion's cure lives not
Friar. Romeo shall thank thee, daughter, for us both.
Friar. Romeo, come forth; come forth, thou fearful man.
Friar. Sir, go you in; and, madam, go with him;
Friar. So smile the heavens upon this holy act
Friar. That's a certain text.
Friar. That's my good son! But where hast thou been then?
Friar. The grey-ey'd morn smiles on the frowning night,
Friar. There on the ground, with his own tears made drunk.
Friar. These violent delights have violent ends
Friar. Thou fond mad man, hear me a little speak.
Friar. Too familiar
Friar. Welcome then.
Friar. Wisely, and slow. They stumble that run fast.
Friar. You say you do not know the lady's mind.
Friar. [aside] I would I knew not why it should be slow'd.-
GENTLEMEN. Towards Chertsey, noble lord?
GHOST OF GREY.  [To RICHARD]  Think upon Grey, and let
GHOST OF RIVERS.  [To RICHARD]  Let me sit heavy in thy
GHOST OF VAUGHAN.  [To RICHARD]  Think upon Vaughan,
GHOST.  [To RICHARD]  Bloody and guilty, guiltily awake,
GHOST.  [To RICHARD]  Let me sit heavy in thy soul
GHOST.  [To RICHARD]  Let me sit heavy on thy soul
GHOST.  [To RICHARD]  Richard, thy wife, that wretched
GHOST.  [To RICHARD]  The first was I that help'd thee
GHOST.  [To RICHARD]  When I was mortal, my anointed
GHOSTS.  [To RICHARD]  Dream on thy cousins smothered in
GLOUCESTER.  [Aside]  Short summers lightly have a forward
GLOUCESTER.  [Aside]  So wise so young, they say, do never
GLOUCESTER.  [To the BISHOPS]  Come, let us to our holy
GLOUCESTER. 'Tis done by me, and ends in-Margaret.
GLOUCESTER. 'Tis figur'd in my tongue.
GLOUCESTER. A blessed labour, my most sovereign lord.
GLOUCESTER. A greater gift than that I'll give my cousin.
GLOUCESTER. Alas, why would you heap this care on me?
GLOUCESTER. Amen!  [Aside]  And make me die a good old
GLOUCESTER. And did they so?
GLOUCESTER. And look to have it yielded with all kindness.
GLOUCESTER. And to that end we wish'd your lordship here,
GLOUCESTER. At Crosby House, there shall you find us both.
GLOUCESTER. Ay, and much more; but I was born so high,
GLOUCESTER. Ay, gentle cousin, were it light enough.
GLOUCESTER. Be patient; they are friends-Ratcliff and Lovel.
GLOUCESTER. Bid me farewell.
GLOUCESTER. But I know none, and therefore am no beast.
GLOUCESTER. But he, poor man, by your first order died,
GLOUCESTER. But shall I live in hope?
GLOUCESTER. By such despair I should accuse myself.
GLOUCESTER. Catesby, o'erlook the walls.
GLOUCESTER. Chop off his head-something we will
GLOUCESTER. Come, cousin, canst thou quake and change
GLOUCESTER. Commend me to Lord William. Tell him,
GLOUCESTER. Cousin of Buckingham, a word with you.
GLOUCESTER. Curse not thyself, fair creature; thou art both.
GLOUCESTER. Else wherefore breathe I in a Christian land?
GLOUCESTER. Ere you were queen, ay, or your husband
GLOUCESTER. Even when you please, for you will have it so.
GLOUCESTER. Fairer than tongue can name thee, let me have
GLOUCESTER. Foul wrinkled witch, what mak'st thou in my
GLOUCESTER. Go, Lovel, with all speed to Doctor Shaw.
GLOUCESTER. Go, after, after, cousin Buckingham.
GLOUCESTER. Good counsel, marry; learn it, learn it, Marquis.
GLOUCESTER. Good morrow to my sovereign king and
GLOUCESTER. Ha?
GLOUCESTER. Have done thy charm, thou hateful wither'd
GLOUCESTER. He hath, my lord.
GLOUCESTER. He is; and, see, he brings the mayor along.
GLOUCESTER. He lives that loves thee better than he could.
GLOUCESTER. He may command me as my sovereign;
GLOUCESTER. He that bereft thee, lady, of thy husband
GLOUCESTER. Here.  [She spits at him]  Why dost thou spit
GLOUCESTER. How fares our cousin, noble Lord of York?
GLOUCESTER. How now, how now! What say the citizens?
GLOUCESTER. How?
GLOUCESTER. I cannot blame her; by God's holy Mother,
GLOUCESTER. I cannot tell if to depart in silence
GLOUCESTER. I cannot tell; the world is grown so bad
GLOUCESTER. I cry thee mercy then, for I did think
GLOUCESTER. I did not kill your husband.
GLOUCESTER. I do suspect I have done some offence
GLOUCESTER. I do the wrong, and first begin to brawl.
GLOUCESTER. I go; and if you plead as well for them
GLOUCESTER. I grant ye.
GLOUCESTER. I hope the King made peace with all of us;
GLOUCESTER. I know so. But, gentle Lady Anne,
GLOUCESTER. I pray you all, tell me what they deserve
GLOUCESTER. I say, without characters, fame lives long.
GLOUCESTER. I was provoked by her sland'rous tongue
GLOUCESTER. I would they were, that I might die at once;
GLOUCESTER. If I should be! I had rather be a pedlar.
GLOUCESTER. If you thrive well, bring them to Baynard's
GLOUCESTER. If?-thou protector of this damned strumpet,
GLOUCESTER. In all which time you and your husband Grey
GLOUCESTER. In saying so, you shall but say the truth.
GLOUCESTER. It is a quarrel most unnatural,
GLOUCESTER. It is too heavy for your Grace to wear.
GLOUCESTER. Let him thank me that holp to send him
GLOUCESTER. Look back, defend thee; here are enemies.
GLOUCESTER. Look how my ring encompasseth thy finger,
GLOUCESTER. Look to the drawbridge there!
GLOUCESTER. Margaret!
GLOUCESTER. Meantime, God grants that I have need of you.
GLOUCESTER. More wonderful when angels are so angry.
GLOUCESTER. My dagger, little cousin? With all my heart!
GLOUCESTER. My lord, the Mayor of London comes to greet
GLOUCESTER. My lord, there needs no such apology:
GLOUCESTER. My lord, will't please you pass along?
GLOUCESTER. My noble lords and cousins an, good morrow.
GLOUCESTER. My other self, my counsel's consistory,
GLOUCESTER. Nay, he is dead, and slain by Edward's hands.
GLOUCESTER. Never came poison from so sweet a place.
GLOUCESTER. No doubt, no doubt. O, 'tis a perilous boy;
GLOUCESTER. No, to White Friars; there attend my coming.
GLOUCESTER. Nor none that live, I hope.
GLOUCESTER. O, do not swear, my lord of Buckingham.
GLOUCESTER. O, my fair cousin, I must not say so.
GLOUCESTER. Plantagenet.
GLOUCESTER. Poor Clarence did forsake his father, Warwick,
GLOUCESTER. Say that I slew them not?
GLOUCESTER. Say, then, my peace is made.
GLOUCESTER. Shall we hear from you, Catesby, ere we sleep?
GLOUCESTER. She may, Lord Rivers? Why, who knows
GLOUCESTER. Sirs, take up the corse.
GLOUCESTER. Sister, have comfort. All of us have cause
GLOUCESTER. So dear I lov'd the man that I must weep.
GLOUCESTER. So do I ever-  [Aside]  being well advis'd;
GLOUCESTER. So will it, madam, till I lie with you.
GLOUCESTER. Sweet Prince, the untainted virtue of your
GLOUCESTER. Than my Lord Hastings no man might be
GLOUCESTER. That it may please you leave these sad designs
GLOUCESTER. That was in thy rage.
GLOUCESTER. The better for the King of Heaven, that hath
GLOUCESTER. The curse my noble father laid on thee,
GLOUCESTER. The self-same name, but one of better nature.
GLOUCESTER. Then be it so; and go we to determine
GLOUCESTER. Then be your eyes the witness of their evil.
GLOUCESTER. Then bid me kill myself, and I will do it;
GLOUCESTER. Then never was man true.
GLOUCESTER. These eyes could not endure that beauty's
GLOUCESTER. They do me wrong, and I will not endure it.
GLOUCESTER. Thine eyes, sweet lady, have infected mine.
GLOUCESTER. This is the fruits of rashness. Mark'd you not
GLOUCESTER. To fight on Edward's party for the crown;
GLOUCESTER. To thee, that hast nor honesty nor grace.
GLOUCESTER. Touch'd you the bastardy of Edward's
GLOUCESTER. Vouchsafe to wear this ring.
GLOUCESTER. Welcome, dear cousin, my thoughts' sovereign.
GLOUCESTER. Well thought upon; I have it here about me.
GLOUCESTER. Wert thou not banished on pain of death?
GLOUCESTER. What doth she say, my Lord of Buckingham?
GLOUCESTER. What! Threat you me with telling of the
GLOUCESTER. What! think you we are Turks or Infidels?
GLOUCESTER. What, marry, may she? Marry with a king,
GLOUCESTER. What, tongueless blocks were they? Would
GLOUCESTER. What, would you have my weapon, little
GLOUCESTER. Where it seems best unto your royal self.
GLOUCESTER. Why, madam, have I off'red love for this,
GLOUCESTER. Why, what should you fear?
GLOUCESTER. Will you enforce me to a world of cares?
GLOUCESTER. Yes, one place else, if you will hear me name it.
GLOUCESTER. Yet you have all the vantage of her wrong.
GLOUCESTER. You may deny that you were not the mean
GLOUCESTER. Your beauty was the cause of that effect-
GLOUCESTER. Your bed-chamber.
GLOUCESTER. Your eyes drop millstones when fools' eyes fall
GREY. God bless the Prince from all the pack of you!
GREY. Here come the Lords of Buckingham and Derby.
GREY. In that you brook it ill, it makes him worse;
GREY. No other harm but loss of such a lord.
GREY. Now Margaret's curse is fall'n upon our heads,
GREY. The heavens have bless'd you with a goodly son
GREY. To who in all this presence speaks your Grace?
Greg. 'Tis well thou art not fish; if thou hadst, thou hadst been
Greg. Ay, while you live, draw your neck out of collar.
Greg. But thou art not quickly moved to strike.
Greg. Do you quarrel, sir?
Greg. How? turn thy back and run?
Greg. I will frown as I pass by, and let them take it as they list.
Greg. No, for then we should be colliers.
Greg. No, marry. I fear thee!
Greg. That shows thee a weak slave; for the weakest goes to the
Greg. The heads of the maids?
Greg. The quarrel is between our masters and us their men.
Greg. They must take it in sense that feel it.
Greg. To move is to stir, and to be valiant is to stand.
Greg. [aside to Sampson] No.
Greg. [aside to Sampson] Say 'better.' Here comes one of my
Gregory, servant to Capulet.
HASTINGS.  [Within]  What is't o'clock?
HASTINGS.  [Within]  Who knocks?
HASTINGS. And so say I.
HASTINGS. And so swear I.                       [They embrace]
HASTINGS. But I shall laugh at this a twelve month hence,
HASTINGS. Cannot my Lord Stanley sleep these tedious
HASTINGS. Come, come, have with you. Wot you what, my
HASTINGS. False-boding woman, end thy frantic curse,
HASTINGS. Go on before; I'll talk with this good fellow.
HASTINGS. Go, fellow, go, return unto thy lord;
HASTINGS. Good faith, and when I met this holy man,
HASTINGS. Good morrow, Catesby; you are early stirring.
HASTINGS. Gramercy, Hastings; there, drink that for me.
HASTINGS. His Grace looks cheerfully and smooth this
HASTINGS. How, wear the garland! Dost thou mean the
HASTINGS. I go, my lord.
HASTINGS. I know they do, and I have well deserv'd it.
HASTINGS. I tell thee, man, 'tis better with me now
HASTINGS. I thank his Grace, I know he loves me well;
HASTINGS. I thank thee, good Sir John, with all my heart.
HASTINGS. I'll have this crown of mine cut from my
HASTINGS. I'll wait upon your lordship.                 Exeunt
HASTINGS. If they have done this deed, my noble lord-
HASTINGS. Indeed, I am no mourner for that news,
HASTINGS. Marry, that with no man here he is offended;
HASTINGS. My lord, I hold my life as dear as yours,
HASTINGS. Nay, like enough, for I stay dinner there.
HASTINGS. Now, noble peers, the cause why we are met
HASTINGS. O bloody Richard! Miserable England!
HASTINGS. O momentary grace of mortal men,
HASTINGS. O monstrous, monstrous! And so falls it out
HASTINGS. O, 'twas the foulest deed to slay that babe,
HASTINGS. On what occasion, God He knows, not I,
HASTINGS. So prosper I, as I swear perfect love!
HASTINGS. So thrive I, as I truly swear the like!
HASTINGS. The tender love I bear your Grace, my lord,
HASTINGS. What then?
HASTINGS. Woe, woe, for England! not a whit for me;
HERBERT. I doubt not but his friends will turn to us.
John. Going to find a barefoot brother out,
John. Holy Franciscan friar, brother, ho!
Jul. 'Tis almost morning. I would have thee gone-
Jul. 'Tis but thy name that is my enemy.
Jul. A rhyme I learnt even now
Jul. A thousand times good night!                        Exit.
Jul. Amen!
Jul. Ancient damnation! O most wicked fiend!
Jul. And joy comes well in such a needy time.
Jul. And stint thou too, I pray thee, nurse, say I.
Jul. Art thou gone so, my lord, my love, my friend?
Jul. As much to him, else is his thanks too much.
Jul. At what o'clock to-morrow
Jul. Ay me!
Jul. Ay me! what news? Why dost thou wring thy hands
Jul. Ay, madam, from the reach of these my hands.
Jul. Ay, pilgrim, lips that they must use in pray'r.
Jul. Ay, those attires are best; but, gentle nurse,
Jul. Blister'd be thy tongue
Jul. But to be frank and give it thee again.
Jul. By whose direction found'st thou out this place?
Jul. By-and-by I come.-
Jul. Can heaven be so envious?
Jul. Come hither, nurse. What is yond gentleman?
Jul. Conceit, more rich in matter than in words,
Jul. Do not swear at all;
Jul. Farewell! God knows when we shall meet again.
Jul. Feeling so the loss,
Jul. Gallop apace, you fiery-footed steeds,
Jul. Give me, give me! O, tell not me of fear!
Jul. Go ask his name.- If he be married,
Jul. Good even to my ghostly confessor.
Jul. Good father, I beseech you on my knees,
Jul. Good pilgrim, you do wrong your hand too much,
Jul. Here's such a coil! Come, what says Romeo?
Jul. Hie to high fortune! Honest nurse, farewell.
Jul. Hist! Romeo, hist! O for a falconer's voice
Jul. How art thou out of breath when thou hast breath
Jul. How cam'st thou hither, tell me, and wherefore?
Jul. How now? Who calls?
Jul. I come, anon.- But if thou meanest not well,
Jul. I gave thee mine before thou didst request it;
Jul. I have.
Jul. I met the youthful lord at Laurence' cell
Jul. I shall forget, to have thee still stand there,
Jul. I will confess to you that I love him.
Jul. I will not fail. 'Tis twenty years till then.
Jul. I would not for the world they saw thee here.
Jul. I would thou hadst my bones, and I thy news.
Jul. I' faith, I am sorry that thou art not well.
Jul. I'll look to like, if looking liking move;
Jul. If I do so, it will be of more price,
Jul. If they do see thee, they will murther thee.
Jul. Indeed I never shall be satisfied
Jul. Is there no pity sitting in the clouds
Jul. It is an honour that I dream not of.
Jul. It is, it is! Hie hence, be gone, away!
Jul. It may be so, for it is not mine own.
Jul. Love give me strength! and strength shall help afford.
Jul. Madam, I am here.
Jul. Madam, I am not well.
Jul. Madam, in happy time! What day is that?
Jul. My ears have yet not drunk a hundred words
Jul. My only love, sprung from my only hate!
Jul. No, madam; we have cull'd such necessaries
Jul. No, no. But all this did I know before.
Jul. Not proud you have, but thankful that you have.
Jul. Now by Saint Peter's Church, and Peter too,
Jul. Now, good sweet nurse- O Lord, why look'st thou sad?
Jul. Nurse, will you go with me into my closet
Jul. Nurse?
Jul. O Fortune, Fortune! all men call thee fickle.
Jul. O God! Did Romeo's hand shed Tybalt's blood?
Jul. O God!- O nurse, how shall this be prevented?
Jul. O God, I have an ill-divining soul!
Jul. O Romeo, Romeo! wherefore art thou Romeo?
Jul. O serpent heart, hid with a flow'ring face!
Jul. O, bid me leap, rather than marry Paris,
Jul. O, break, my heart! poor bankrout, break at once!
Jul. O, find him! give this ring to my true knight
Jul. O, shut the door! and when thou hast done so,
Jul. O, swear not by the moon, th' inconstant moon,
Jul. O, think'st thou we shall ever meet again?
Jul. Romeo!
Jul. Saints do not move, though grant for prayers' sake.
Jul. Shall I speak ill of him that is my husband?
Jul. Speak'st thou this from thy heart?
Jul. Sweet, so would I.
Jul. Tell me not, friar, that thou hear'st of this,
Jul. That is no slander, sir, which is a truth;
Jul. That may be, sir, when I may be a wife.
Jul. The clock struck nine when I did send the nurse;
Jul. The tears have got small victory by that,
Jul. Then have my lips the sin that they have took.
Jul. Then, window, let day in, and let life out.
Jul. Thou knowest the mask of night is on my face;
Jul. Three words, dear Romeo, and good night indeed.
Jul. To answer that, I should confess to you.
Jul. Wash they his wounds with tears? Mine shall be spent,
Jul. Well, do not swear. Although I joy in thee,
Jul. Well, thou hast comforted me marvellous much.
Jul. What devil art thou that dost torment me thus?
Jul. What man art thou that, thus bescreen'd in night,
Jul. What must be shall be.
Jul. What satisfaction canst thou have to-night?
Jul. What storm is this that blows so contrary?
Jul. What villain, madam?
Jul. What's he that follows there, that would not dance?
Jul. What's he that now is going out of door?
Jul. Where I have learnt me to repent the sin
Jul. Where is my mother? Why, she is within.
Jul. Who is't that calls? It is my lady mother.
Jul. Wilt thou be gone? It is not yet near day.
Jul. Yet let me weep for such a feeling loss.
Jul. Yond light is not daylight; I know it, I.
Jul. You kiss by th' book.
Jul. [aside] Villain and he be many miles asunder.-
Juliet, daughter to Capulet.
KEEPER, I prithee sit by me awhile;
KEEPER. Awak'd you not in this sore agony?
KEEPER. Had you such leisure in the time of death
KEEPER. I will, my lord. God give your Grace good rest.
KEEPER. No marvel, lord, though it affrighted you;
KEEPER. What was your dream, my lord? I pray you
KEEPER. Why looks your Grace so heavily to-day?
KING EDWARD. A pleasing cordial, princely Buckingham,
KING EDWARD. Dorset, embrace him; Hastings, love Lord
KING EDWARD. Happy, indeed, as we have spent the day.
KING EDWARD. Have I a tongue to doom my brother's death,
KING EDWARD. I prithee, peace; my soul is full of sorrow.
KING EDWARD. Is Clarence dead? The order was revers'd.
KING EDWARD. Madam, yourself is not exempt from this;
KING EDWARD. Now, princely Buckingham, seal thou this
KING EDWARD. Take heed you dally not before your king;
KING EDWARD. Then say at once what is it thou requests.
KING EDWARD. Who knows not he is dead! Who knows
KING EDWARD. Why, so. Now have I done a good day's
KING He was in the right; and so indeed it is.
KING RICHARD By the apostle Paul, shadows to-night
KING RICHARD.                                          [Reads]
KING RICHARD. A flourish, trumpets! Strike alarum, drums!
KING RICHARD. A horse! a horse! my kingdom for a horse!
KING RICHARD. A thousand hearts are great within my
KING RICHARD. Ah, Buckingham, now do I play the touch,
KING RICHARD. All unavoided is the doom of destiny.
KING RICHARD. And be a happy mother by the deed.
KING RICHARD. And brief, good mother; for I am in haste.
KING RICHARD. And buried, gentle Tyrrel?
KING RICHARD. And came I not at last to comfort you?
KING RICHARD. Art thou, indeed?
KING RICHARD. As I intend to prosper and repent,
KING RICHARD. As long as heaven and nature lengthens it.
KING RICHARD. Away towards Salisbury! While we reason
KING RICHARD. Ay, I thank God, my father, and yourself.
KING RICHARD. Ay, ay, thou wouldst be gone to join with
KING RICHARD. Ay, if the devil tempt you to do good.
KING RICHARD. Ay, if your self's remembrance wrong
KING RICHARD. Ay, what's o'clock?
KING RICHARD. Be eloquent in my behalf to her.
KING RICHARD. Be not so hasty to confound my meaning.
KING RICHARD. Bear her my true love's kiss; and so, farewell.
KING RICHARD. Because that like a Jack thou keep'st the
KING RICHARD. Bid my guard watch; leave me.
KING RICHARD. But didst thou see them dead?
KING RICHARD. But in your daughter's womb I bury them;
KING RICHARD. Catesby!
KING RICHARD. Catesby, fly to the Duke.
KING RICHARD. Cold friends to me. What do they in the
KING RICHARD. Come hither, Catesby. Rumour it abroad
KING RICHARD. Come to me, Tyrrel, soon at after supper,
KING RICHARD. Come, bustle, bustle; caparison my horse;
KING RICHARD. Dar'st'thou resolve to kill a friend of mine?
KING RICHARD. Do, then; but I'll not hear.
KING RICHARD. Ely with Richmond troubles me more near
KING RICHARD. Even all I have-ay, and myself and all
KING RICHARD. Even he that makes her Queen. Who else
KING RICHARD. Even so. How think you of it?
KING RICHARD. Faith, none but Humphrey Hour, that call'd
KING RICHARD. Give me another horse. Bind up my wounds.
KING RICHARD. Give me thy hand.
KING RICHARD. Go, then, and muster men. But leave behind
KING RICHARD. Good Norfolk, hie thee to thy charge;
KING RICHARD. Good or bad news, that thou com'st in so
KING RICHARD. Ha! am I King? 'Tis so; but Edward lives.
KING RICHARD. Harp not on that string, madam; that is past.
KING RICHARD. He said the truth; and what said Surrey
KING RICHARD. Her life is safest only in her birth.
KING RICHARD. Here pitch our tent, even here in Bosworth
KING RICHARD. How chance the prophet could not at that
KING RICHARD. Hoyday, a riddle! neither good nor bad!
KING RICHARD. I cry thee mercy.
KING RICHARD. I do remember me: Henry the Sixth
KING RICHARD. I partly know the man. Go, call him hither,
KING RICHARD. I swear-
KING RICHARD. I will converse with iron-witted fools
KING RICHARD. I will not sup to-night.
KING RICHARD. Infer fair England's peace by this alliance.
KING RICHARD. Is the chair empty? Is the sword unsway'd?
KING RICHARD. Kind Tyrrel, am I happy in thy news?
KING RICHARD. Know'st thou not any whom corrupting
KING RICHARD. Lo, at their birth good stars were opposite.
KING RICHARD. Look what is done cannot be now amended.
KING RICHARD. Madam, I have a touch of your condition
KING RICHARD. Madam, so thrive I in my enterprise
KING RICHARD. Madam, with all my heart.
KING RICHARD. March on, march on, since we are up in
KING RICHARD. My Lord of Norfolk!
KING RICHARD. My father's death-
KING RICHARD. My mind is chang'd.
KING RICHARD. Norfolk, we must have knocks; ha! must we
KING RICHARD. Now, by my George, my garter, and my
KING RICHARD. Now, by the world-
KING RICHARD. O Ratcliff, I fear, I fear.
KING RICHARD. O Ratcliff, I have dream'd a fearful dream!
KING RICHARD. O bitter consequence:
KING RICHARD. O, true, good Catesby. Bid him levy straight
KING RICHARD. Off with his son George's head!
KING RICHARD. Out on you, owls! Nothing but songs of
KING RICHARD. Ratcliff, come hither. Post to Salisbury;
KING RICHARD. Richmond! When last I was at Exeter,
KING RICHARD. Saw'st thou the melancholy Lord
KING RICHARD. Say I will love her everlastingly.
KING RICHARD. Say I, her sovereign, am her subject low.
KING RICHARD. Say she shall be a high and mighty queen.
KING RICHARD. Say that I did all this for love of her.
KING RICHARD. Send out a pursuivant-at-arms
KING RICHARD. Slave, I have set my life upon a cast
KING RICHARD. So, I am satisfied. Give me a bowl of wine.
KING RICHARD. So.
KING RICHARD. Some light-foot friend post to the Duke of
KING RICHARD. Stand all apart. Cousin of Buckingham!
KING RICHARD. Stanley, he is your wife's son: well, look
KING RICHARD. Stanley, look to your wife; if she convey
KING RICHARD. Stay, madam, I must talk a word with you.
KING RICHARD. Stir with the lark to-morrow, gentle Norfolk.
KING RICHARD. Sweetly in force unto her fair life's end.
KING RICHARD. Tell her the King, that may command,
KING RICHARD. That would I learn of you,
KING RICHARD. The son of Clarence have I pent up close;
KING RICHARD. The sun will not be seen to-day;
KING RICHARD. The time to come.
KING RICHARD. Then he disdains to shine; for by the book
KING RICHARD. Then know, that from my soul I love thy
KING RICHARD. Then plainly to her tell my loving tale.
KING RICHARD. Then, by my self-
KING RICHARD. There let him sink, and be the seas on him!
KING RICHARD. Thou sing'st sweet music. Hark, come
KING RICHARD. Thou troublest me; I am not in the vein.
KING RICHARD. Tut, tut, thou art all ice; thy kindness freezes.
KING RICHARD. Unless for that he comes to be your liege,
KING RICHARD. Unto the dignity and height of Fortune,
KING RICHARD. Up With my tent! Here will I lie to-night;
KING RICHARD. Well, as you guess?
KING RICHARD. Well, but o'clock?
KING RICHARD. Well, let it strike.
KING RICHARD. Well, let that rest. Dorset is fled to
KING RICHARD. What do you think?
KING RICHARD. What is his name?
KING RICHARD. What is't o'clock?
KING RICHARD. What said Northumberland as touching
KING RICHARD. Where is thy power then, to beat him back?
KING RICHARD. Who intercepts me in my expedition?
KING RICHARD. Why, Buckingham, I say I would be King.
KING RICHARD. Why, our battalia trebles that account;
KING RICHARD. Why, then thou hast it. Two deep enemies,
KING RICHARD. Why, then, by God-
KING RICHARD. Why, what wouldst thou do there before I
KING RICHARD. Wrong not her birth; she is a royal
KING RICHARD. You have a daughter call'd Elizabeth.
KING RICHARD. You mock me, madam; this is not the way
KING RICHARD. You speak as if that I had slain my cousins.
KING RICHARD. You speak too bitterly.
KING RICHARD. Your reasons are too shallow and too quick.
KING RICHARD. Zounds, who is there?
KING RICHARD. advancement of your children, gentle
LORDS. Good morrow, Richmond!
LORDS. How have you slept, my lord?
LORDS. Upon the stroke of four.
LOVEL. Come, come, dispatch; 'tis bootless to exclaim.
LOVEL. Here is the head of that ignoble traitor,
Lady Capulet, wife to Capulet.
Lady Montague, wife to Montague.
Lady. Ay, sir; but she will none, she gives you thanks.
Lady. Ay, you have been a mouse-hunt in your time;
Lady. Evermore weeping for your cousin's death?
Lady. Fie, fie! what, are you mad?
Lady. Find thou the means, and I'll find such a man.
Lady. Here comes your father. Tell him so yourself,
Lady. Hold, take these keys and fetch more spices, nurse.
Lady. I will, and know her mind early to-morrow;
Lady. Marry, my child, early next Thursday morn
Lady. So shall you feel the loss, but not the friend
Lady. Talk not to me, for I'll not speak a word.
Lady. That is because the traitor murderer lives.
Lady. That same villain Romeo.
Lady. We will have vengeance for it, fear thou not.
Lady. Well, girl, thou weep'st not so much for his death
Lady. Well, well, thou hast a careful father, child;
Lady. Why, how now, Juliet?
Lady. You are too hot.
Lady. [within] Ho, daughter! are you up?
Laur. This same should be the voice of Friar John.
Laur. Who bare my letter, then, to Romeo?
M. Wife. O, where is Romeo? Saw you him to-day?
M. Wife. Thou shalt not stir one foot to seek a foe.
MAYOR. But, my good lord, your Grace's words shall serve
MAYOR. Do, good my lord; your citizens entreat you.
MAYOR. God bless your Grace with health and happy days!
MAYOR. God bless your Grace! We see it, and will say it.
MAYOR. Had he done so?
MAYOR. Marry, God defend his Grace should say us nay!
MAYOR. Now, fair befall you! He deserv'd his death;
MAYOR. See where his Grace stands 'tween two clergymen!
MESSENGER. I'll go, my lord, and tell him what you say.
MESSENGER. Lord Rivers and Lord Grey
MESSENGER. My gracious sovereign, now in Devonshire,
MESSENGER. My lord, he doth deny to come.
MESSENGER. My lord, my lord!                        [Knocking]
MESSENGER. One from the Lord Stanley.
MESSENGER. So it appears by that I have to say.
MESSENGER. Such news, my lord, as grieves me to report.
MESSENGER. The mighty Dukes, Gloucester and Buckingham.
MESSENGER. The sum of all I can, I have disclos'd.
MESSENGER. Then certifies your lordship that this night
MESSENGER. Upon the stroke of four.
MESSENGER. Well, madam, and in health.
Man. I do beseech you, sir, have patience.
Man. No, my good lord.
Man. Then she is well, and nothing can be ill.
Mer. 'Tis no less, I tell ye; for the bawdy hand of the dial is now
Mer. A bawd, a bawd, a bawd! So ho!
Mer. A challenge, on my life.
Mer. A sail, a sail!
Mer. Alas, poor Romeo, he is already dead! stabb'd with a white
Mer. And but one word with one of us?
Mer. And so did I.
Mer. And, to sink in it, should you burthen love-
Mer. Any man that can write may answer a letter.
Mer. Ay, ay, a scratch, a scratch. Marry, 'tis enough.
Mer. But I'll be hang'd, sir, if he wear your livery.
Mer. By my heel, I care not.
Mer. Come between us, good Benvolio! My wits faint.
Mer. Come, come, thou art as hot a jack in thy mood as any in
Mer. Come, sir, your passado!
Mer. Consort? What, dost thou make us minstrels? An thou make
Mer. Could you not take some occasion without giving
Mer. Farewell, ancient lady. Farewell,
Mer. God ye good-den, fair gentlewoman.
Mer. Good King of Cats, nothing but one of your nine lives. That I
Mer. Good Peter, to hide her face; for her fan's the fairer face of
Mer. He is wise,
Mer. Help me into some house, Benvolio,
Mer. I am hurt.
Mer. I mean, sir, in delay
Mer. I will bite thee by the ear for that jest.
Mer. If love be blind, love cannot hit the mark.
Mer. If love be rough with you, be rough with love.
Mer. Men's eyes were made to look, and let them gaze.
Mer. More than Prince of Cats, I can tell you. O, he's the
Mer. Nay, I am the very pink of courtesy.
Mer. Nay, I'll conjure too.
Mer. Nay, an there were two such, we should have none shortly, for
Mer. Nay, gentle Romeo, we must have you dance.
Mer. Nay, if our wits run the wild-goose chase, I am done; for thou
Mer. No hare, sir; unless a hare, sir, in a lenten pie, that is
Mer. No, 'tis not so deep as a well, nor so wide as a church door;
Mer. O calm, dishonourable, vile submission!
Mer. O, here's a wit of cheveril, that stretches from an inch
Mer. O, then I see Queen Mab hath been with you.
Mer. O, thou art deceiv'd! I would have made it short; for I was
Mer. Right.
Mer. That dreamers often lie.
Mer. That's as much as to say, such a case as yours constrains a
Mer. The fee simple? O simple!
Mer. The pox of such antic, lisping, affecting fantasticoes- these
Mer. The slip, sir, the slip. Can you not conceive?
Mer. This cannot anger him. 'Twould anger him
Mer. Thou art like one of these fellows that, when he enters the
Mer. Thou desirest me to stop in my tale against the hair.
Mer. Thou hast most kindly hit it.
Mer. Thy wit is a very bitter sweeting; it is a most sharp sauce.
Mer. True, I talk of dreams;
Mer. Tut! dun's the mouse, the constable's own word!
Mer. Well said! Follow me this jest now till thou hast worn out thy
Mer. Where the devil should this Romeo be?
Mer. Why, is not this better now than groaning for love? Now art
Mer. Why, may one ask?
Mer. Why, that same pale hard-hearted wench, that Rosaline,
Mer. Without his roe, like a dried herring. O flesh, flesh, how art
Mer. Yea, is the worst well? Very well took, i' faith! wisely,
Mer. You are a lover. Borrow Cupid's wings
Mercutio, kinsman to the Prince and friend to Romeo.
Mon. Both by myself and many other friend;
Mon. I neither know it nor can learn of him
Mon. I would thou wert so happy by thy stay
Mon. Many a morning hath he there been seen,
Mon. Not Romeo, Prince; he was Mercutio's friend;
Mon. Thou villain Capulet!- Hold me not, let me go.
Mon. Who set this ancient quarrel new abroach?
Montague, heads of two houses at variance with each other.
Mother. Accurs'd, unhappy, wretched, hateful day!
Mother. Alack the day, she's dead, she's dead, she's dead!
Mother. Good night.
Mother. No, not till Thursday. There is time enough.
Mother. O me, O me! My child, my only life!
Mother. O woful time!
Mother. We shall be short in our provision.
Mother. What is the matter?
Mother. What noise is here?
Mother. What, are you busy, ho? Need you my help?
NORFOLK. A good direction, warlike sovereign.
NORFOLK. Arm, arm, my lord; the foe vaunts in the field.
NORFOLK. Here, most gracious liege.
NORFOLK. I go, my lord.
NORFOLK. I warrant you, my lord.                          Exit
NORFOLK. My lord, the enemy is pass'd the marsh.
NORFOLK. Six or seven thousand is their utmost power.
NORFOLK. We must both give and take, my loving lord.
Nurse to Juliet.
Nurse. (within) Madam!
Nurse. (within) Madam!
Nurse. A man, young lady! lady, such a man
Nurse. Ah sir! ah sir! Well, death's the end of all.
Nurse. Ah, mocker! that's the dog's name. R is for the- No; I know
Nurse. Ah, weraday! he's dead, he's dead, he's dead!
Nurse. An 'a speak anything against me, I'll take him down, an 'a
Nurse. An honour? Were not I thine only nurse,
Nurse. And from my soul too; else beshrew them both.
Nurse. Anon, anon!
Nurse. Ay, a thousand times. [Exit Romeo.] Peter!
Nurse. Ay, ay, the cords.
Nurse. Ay, forsooth.
Nurse. By my troth, it is well said. 'For himself to mar,' quoth
Nurse. Even or odd, of all days in the year,
Nurse. Even so lies she,
Nurse. Faith, I can tell her age unto an hour.
Nurse. Faith, here it is.
Nurse. Go, girl, seek happy nights to happy days.
Nurse. Go, you cot-quean, go,
Nurse. God in heaven bless her!
Nurse. God ye good morrow, gentlemen.
Nurse. Good heart, and I faith I will tell her as much. Lord,
Nurse. Have you got leave to go to shrift to-day?
Nurse. Here is a ring she bid me give you, sir.
Nurse. Hie to your chamber. I'll find Romeo
Nurse. His name is Romeo, and a Montague,
Nurse. Honest good fellows, ah, put up, put up!
Nurse. I am aweary, give me leave awhile.
Nurse. I know not.
Nurse. I saw the wound, I saw it with mine eyes,
Nurse. I speak no treason.
Nurse. I will tell her, sir, that you do protest, which, as I take
Nurse. I'll lay fourteen of my teeth-
Nurse. If you be he, sir, I desire some confidence with you.
Nurse. Is it good-den?
Nurse. Is your man secret? Did you ne'er hear say,
Nurse. It did, it did! alas the day, it did!
Nurse. Jesu, what haste! Can you not stay awhile?
Nurse. Look, look! O heavy day!
Nurse. Lord, how my head aches! What a head have I!
Nurse. Madam!
Nurse. Madam, your mother craves a word with you.
Nurse. Marry, I will; and this is wisely done.           Exit.
Nurse. Marry, bachelor,
Nurse. Marry, farewell! I Pray you, Sir, what saucy merchant was
Nurse. Marry, that, I think, be young Petruchio.
Nurse. May not one speak?
Nurse. Mistress! what, mistress! Juliet! Fast, I warrant her, she.
Nurse. My fan, Peter.
Nurse. Nay, he's a flower, in faith- a very flower.
Nurse. No less? Nay, bigger! Women grow by men
Nurse. No, truly, sir; not a penny.
Nurse. Now God in heaven bless thee! Hark you, sir.
Nurse. Now, afore God, I am so vexed that every part about me
Nurse. Now, by my maidenhead at twelve year old,
Nurse. O God's Lady dear!
Nurse. O Lord, I could have stay'd here all the night
Nurse. O Tybalt, Tybalt, the best friend I had!
Nurse. O holy friar, O, tell me, holy friar
Nurse. O lamentable day!
Nurse. O lamentable day!
Nurse. O woe? O woful, woful, woful day!
Nurse. O, he is even in my mistress' case,
Nurse. O, she says nothing, sir, but weeps and weeps;
Nurse. Out upon you! What a man are you!
Nurse. Peace, I have done. God mark thee to his grace!
Nurse. Peter!
Nurse. Peter, stay at the gate.
Nurse. Peter, take my fan, and go before, and apace.
Nurse. Romeo can,
Nurse. See where she comes from shrift with merry look.
Nurse. She's dead, deceas'd; she's dead! Alack the day!
Nurse. The son and heir of old Tiberio.
Nurse. Then hie you hence to Friar Laurence' cell;
Nurse. There's no trust,
Nurse. They call for dates and quinces in the pastry.
Nurse. This afternoon, sir? Well, she shall be there.
Nurse. Tybalt is gone, and Romeo banished;
Nurse. Weeping and wailing over Tybalt's corse.
Nurse. Well, sir, my mistress is the sweetest lady. Lord, Lord!
Nurse. Well, you have made a simple choice; you know not how to
Nurse. What's this? what's this?
Nurse. What?
Nurse. Will you speak well of him that kill'd your cousin?
Nurse. Yes, madam. Yet I cannot choose but laugh
Nurse. You say well.
Nurse. Your lady mother is coming to your chamber.
Nurse. Your love says, like an honest gentleman, and a courteous,
Nurse. Your mother.
Nurse. [within] Let me come in, and you shall know my errand.
OXFORD, redoubted Pembroke, Sir James Blunt,
OXFORD. Every man's conscience is a thousand men,
Officer. Clubs, bills, and partisans! Strike! beat them down!
PAGE. His name, my lord, is Tyrrel.
PAGE. I know a discontented gentleman
PAGE. My lord?
PRIEST. I'll wait upon your lordship.
PRIEST. Well met, my lord; I am glad to see your honour.
PRINCE. A beggar, brother?
PRINCE. An if I live until I be a man,
PRINCE. An if they live, I hope I need not fear.
PRINCE. Ay brother, to our grief, as it is yours.
PRINCE. But say, my lord, it were not regist'red,
PRINCE. God keep me from false friends! but they were
PRINCE. Good lords, make all the speedy haste you may.
PRINCE. I do not like the Tower, of any place.
PRINCE. I fear no uncles dead.
PRINCE. I thank you, good my lord, and thank you all.
PRINCE. Is it upon record, or else reported
PRINCE. My Lord Protector needs will have it so.
PRINCE. My Lord of York will still be cross in talk.
PRINCE. No, uncle; but our crosses on the way
PRINCE. Richard of York, how fares our loving brother?
PRINCE. That Julius Caesar was a famous man;
PRINCE. Welcome, my lord. What, will our mother come?
PRINCE. What say you, uncle?
PURSUIVANT. God hold it, to your honour's good content!
PURSUIVANT. I thank your honour.                          Exit
PURSUIVANT. The better that your lordship please to ask.
Par. Beguil'd, divorced, wronged, spited, slain!
Par. Come you to make confession to this father?
Par. Do not deny to him that you love me.
Par. God shield I should disturb devotion!
Par. Happily met, my lady and my wife!
Par. Have I thought long to see this morning's face,
Par. Immoderately she weeps for Tybalt's death,
Par. Monday, my lord.
Par. My father Capulet will have it so,
Par. My lord, I would that Thursday were to-morrow.
Par. Of honourable reckoning are you both,
Par. Poor soul, thy face is much abus'd with tears.
Par. So will ye, I am sure, that you love me.
Par. That may be must be, love, on Thursday next.
Par. These times of woe afford no tune to woo.
Par. Thou wrong'st it more than tears with that report.
Par. Thy face is mine, and thou hast sland'red it.
Par. Younger than she are happy mothers made.
Paris, a young Count, kinsman to the Prince.
Pet. I will then give it you soundly.
Pet. Musicians, O, musicians, 'Heart's ease,' 'Heart's ease'!
Pet. No money, on my faith, but the gleek. I will give you the
Pet. O, I cry you mercy! you are the singer. I will say for you. It
Pet. O, musicians, because my heart itself plays 'My heart is full
Pet. Pretty too! What say you, James Soundpost?
Pet. Pretty! What say You, Hugh Rebeck?
Pet. Then have at you with my wit! I will dry-beat you with an iron
Pet. Then will I lay the serving-creature's dagger on your pate.
Pet. You will not then?
Peter, servant to Juliet's nurse.
Peter. Anon.
Peter. Anon.
Peter. I saw no man use you at his pleasure. If I had, my weapon
Prince. And for that offence
Prince. Benvolio, who began this bloody fray?
Prince. Rebellious subjects, enemies to peace,
Prince. Romeo slew him; he slew Mercutio.
Prince. Where are the vile beginners of this fray?
QUEEN ELIZABETH. 'Tis full of thy foul wrongs.
QUEEN ELIZABETH. A holy day shall this be kept hereafter.
QUEEN ELIZABETH. A parlous boy! Go to, you are too
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Ah, cut my lace asunder
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Ah, he is young; and his minority
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Ah, my poor princes! ah, my tender
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Ah, that thou wouldst as soon afford a
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Ah, who shall hinder me to wail and
QUEEN ELIZABETH. All-seeing heaven, what a world is this!
QUEEN ELIZABETH. An honest tale speeds best being plainly
QUEEN ELIZABETH. And must she die for this? O, let her
QUEEN ELIZABETH. And only in that safety died her
QUEEN ELIZABETH. And wilt thou learn of me?
QUEEN ELIZABETH. As little joy, my lord, as you suppose
QUEEN ELIZABETH. As long as hell and Richard likes of it.
QUEEN ELIZABETH. As much to you, good sister! Whither
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Ay me, I see the ruin of my house!
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Be brief, lest that the process of thy
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Brother of Gloucester, you mistake the
QUEEN ELIZABETH. But I hear no; they say my son of York
QUEEN ELIZABETH. But how long fairly shall her sweet life
QUEEN ELIZABETH. But how long shall that title 'ever' last?
QUEEN ELIZABETH. But she, your subject, loathes such
QUEEN ELIZABETH. By Him that rais'd me to this careful
QUEEN ELIZABETH. By nothing; for this is no oath:
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Catesby, I come. Lords, will you go
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Come, come, my boy; we will to
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Come, come, we know your meaning,
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Cousins, indeed; and by their uncle
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Flatter my sorrow with report of it;
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Give me no help in lamentation;
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Go, go, poor soul; I envy not thy glory.
QUEEN ELIZABETH. God grant him health! Did you confer
QUEEN ELIZABETH. God's wrong is most of all.
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Harp on it still shall I till heartstrings
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Hidest thou that forehead with a golden
QUEEN ELIZABETH. How canst thou woo her?
QUEEN ELIZABETH. How doth the Prince?
QUEEN ELIZABETH. I go. Write to me very shortly,
QUEEN ELIZABETH. I have no moe sons of the royal blood
QUEEN ELIZABETH. I never did her any to my knowledge.
QUEEN ELIZABETH. If he were dead, what would betide on
QUEEN ELIZABETH. It is determin'd, not concluded yet;
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Kind sister, thanks; we'll enter
QUEEN ELIZABETH. My Lord of Gloucester, I have too long
QUEEN ELIZABETH. My daughter's mother thinks it with her
QUEEN ELIZABETH. My words are dull; O, quicken them
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Nay, then indeed she cannot choose but
QUEEN ELIZABETH. No, to their lives ill friends were
QUEEN ELIZABETH. O Dorset, speak not to me, get thee
QUEEN ELIZABETH. O thou well skill'd in curses, stay awhile
QUEEN ELIZABETH. O, no, my reasons are too deep and
QUEEN ELIZABETH. O, thou didst prophesy the time would
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Pitchers have ears.
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Plain and not honest is too harsh a style.
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Poor heart, adieu! I pity thy complaining.
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Profan'd, dishonour'd, and the third
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Saw you the King to-day, my Lord of
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Send to her, by the man that slew her
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Shall I be tempted of the devil thus?
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Shall I forget myself to be myself?
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Shall I go win my daughter to thy will?
QUEEN ELIZABETH. So just is God to right the innocent.
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Stay, yet look back with me unto the
QUEEN ELIZABETH. That at her hands which the King's
QUEEN ELIZABETH. That thou dost love my daughter from
QUEEN ELIZABETH. That thou hast wronged in the time
QUEEN ELIZABETH. The Countess Richmond, good my Lord
QUEEN ELIZABETH. The King! Who's that?
QUEEN ELIZABETH. The Lord protect him from that kingly
QUEEN ELIZABETH. The loss of such a lord includes all
QUEEN ELIZABETH. There is no other way;
QUEEN ELIZABETH. There, Hastings; I will never more
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Though far more cause, yet much less
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Thus have you breath'd your curse
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Thy life hath it dishonour'd.
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Thy self is self-misus'd.
QUEEN ELIZABETH. To make an act of tragic violence.
QUEEN ELIZABETH. To save her life I'll say she is not so.
QUEEN ELIZABETH. To wail the title, as her mother doth.
QUEEN ELIZABETH. True, when avoided grace makes destiny.
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Up to some scaffold, there to lose their
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Was never widow had so dear a loss.
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Well, then, who dost thou mean shall be
QUEEN ELIZABETH. What good is cover'd with the face of
QUEEN ELIZABETH. What likelihood of his amendment,
QUEEN ELIZABETH. What stay had I but Edward? and he's
QUEEN ELIZABETH. What were I best to say? Her father's
QUEEN ELIZABETH. What, thou?
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Where is the gentle Rivers, Vaughan,
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Which she shall purchase with
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Wilt thou, O God, fly from such gentle
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Windy attorneys to their client woes,
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Would all were well! But that will
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Yet thou didst kill my children.
QUEEN ELIZABETH. You have no cause.
QUEEN MARGARET.  [Coming forward]  If ancient sorrow be
QUEEN MARGARET. A murd'rous villain, and so still thou art.
QUEEN MARGARET. And leave out thee? Stay, dog, for thou
QUEEN MARGARET. And less'ned be that small, God, I
QUEEN MARGARET. And turns the sun to shade-alas! alas!
QUEEN MARGARET. As little joy enjoys the Queen thereof;
QUEEN MARGARET. Ay, and much better blood than his or
QUEEN MARGARET. Bear with me; I am hungry for revenge,
QUEEN MARGARET. But repetition of what thou hast marr'd,
QUEEN MARGARET. Forbear to sleep the nights, and fast the
QUEEN MARGARET. Foul shame upon you! you have all
QUEEN MARGARET. Hie thee to hell for shame and leave this
QUEEN MARGARET. Hover about her; say that right for right
QUEEN MARGARET. I Call'd thee then vain flourish of my
QUEEN MARGARET. I call thee not.
QUEEN MARGARET. I was; but I do find more pain in
QUEEN MARGARET. I will not think but they ascend the sky
QUEEN MARGARET. O princely Buckingham, I'll kiss thy
QUEEN MARGARET. Out, devil! I do remember them to
QUEEN MARGARET. Peace, Master Marquis, you are malapert;
QUEEN MARGARET. Plantagenet doth quit Plantagenet,
QUEEN MARGARET. Poor painted queen, vain flourish of my
QUEEN MARGARET. Richard!
QUEEN MARGARET. So now prosperity begins to mellow
QUEEN MARGARET. Thou hadst a Clarence too, and Richard
QUEEN MARGARET. Thy woes will make them sharp and
QUEEN MARGARET. To serve me well you all should do me
QUEEN MARGARET. Urge neither charity nor shame to me.
QUEEN MARGARET. What, dost thou scorn me for my gentle
QUEEN MARGARET. What, were you snarling all before I came,
QUEEN MARGARET. When holy Harry died, and my sweet
QUEEN MARGARET. Which God revenge!
QUEEN MARGARET. Why, so I did, but look'd for no reply.
RATCLIFF, about the mid of night come to my tent
RATCLIFF. Bad news, my lord: Morton is fled to Richmond;
RATCLIFF. Come, come, dispatch; the Duke would be at
RATCLIFF. Dispatch; the limit of your lives is out.
RATCLIFF. He smil'd, and said 'The better for our purpose.'
RATCLIFF. It is, my lord.
RATCLIFF. Make haste; the hour of death is expiate.
RATCLIFF. Most mighty sovereign, on the western coast
RATCLIFF. My lord!
RATCLIFF. My lord!
RATCLIFF. My lord?
RATCLIFF. My lord?
RATCLIFF. Nay, good my lord, be not afraid of shadows.
RATCLIFF. No doubt, my lord.
RATCLIFF. Not I, my lord.
RATCLIFF. Ratcliff, my lord; 'tis I. The early village-cock
RATCLIFF. That he was never trained up in arms.
RATCLIFF. Thomas the Earl of Surrey and himself,
RATCLIFF. What, may it please you, shall I do at Salisbury?
RATCLIFF. Your Highness told me I should post before.
RICHARD the Second here was hack'd to death;
RICHMOND. All comfort that the dark night can afford
RICHMOND. All for our vantage. Then in God's name march.
RICHMOND. Cry mercy, lords and watchful gentlemen,
RICHMOND. Fellows in arms, and my most loving friends,
RICHMOND. God and your arms be prais'd, victorious friends;
RICHMOND. Good lords, conduct him to his regiment.
RICHMOND. Good night, good Captain Blunt. Come,
RICHMOND. Great God of heaven, say Amen to all!
RICHMOND. If without peril it be possible,
RICHMOND. Inter their bodies as becomes their births.
RICHMOND. The sweetest sleep and fairest-boding dreams
RICHMOND. The weary sun hath made a golden set,
RICHMOND. What men of name are slain on either side?
RICHMOND. Why, then 'tis time to arm and give direction.
RIVER. Is it concluded he shall be Protector?
RIVERS. A virtuous and a Christian-like conclusion,
RIVERS. And I, as I love Hastings with my heart!
RIVERS. And so doth mine. I muse why she's at liberty.
RIVERS. And so in me; and so, I think, in an.
RIVERS. By heaven, my soul is purg'd from grudging hate;
RIVERS. Come, Grey; come, Vaughan; let us here embrace.
RIVERS. Have patience, madam; there's no doubt his Majesty
RIVERS. Madam, bethink you, like a careful mother,
RIVERS. My Lord of Gloucester, in those busy days
RIVERS. O Pomfret, Pomfret! O thou bloody prison,
RIVERS. She may, my lord; for-
RIVERS. Sir Richard Ratcliff, let me tell thee this:
RIVERS. Then curs'd she Richard, then curs'd she
RIVERS. Tyrants themselves wept when it was reported.
RIVERS. We wait upon your Grace.
RIVERS. Were you well serv'd, you would be taught your
RIVERS. What, marry, may she?
Rom. 'Tis the way
Rom. 'Tis torture, and not mercy. Heaven is here,
Rom. (rises) Nurse-
Rom. A gentleman, nurse, that loves to hear himself talk and will
Rom. A most courteous exposition.
Rom. A right good markman! And she's fair I love.
Rom. A thousand times the worse, to want thy light!
Rom. A torch for me! Let wantons light of heart
Rom. Ah, Juliet, if the measure of thy joy
Rom. Alack, there lies more peril in thine eye
Rom. Alas that love, whose view is muffled still,
Rom. Alive in triumph, and Mercutio slain?
Rom. Amen, amen! But come what sorrow can,
Rom. And I'll still stay, to have thee still forget,
Rom. And bad'st me bury love.
Rom. And is it not, then, well serv'd in to a sweet goose?
Rom. And stay, good nurse, behind the abbey wall.
Rom. And trust me, love, in my eye so do you.
Rom. And we mean well, in going to this masque;
Rom. Art thou so bare and full of wretchedness
Rom. As if that name,
Rom. Ay me! sad hours seem long.
Rom. Ay, If I know the letters and the language.
Rom. Ay, mine own fortune in my misery.
Rom. Ay, nurse; what of that? Both with an R.
Rom. Ay, so I fear; the more is my unrest.
Rom. Bid a sick man in sadness make his will.
Rom. Bid her devise
Rom. But that a joy past joy calls out on me,
Rom. By a name
Rom. By love, that first did prompt me to enquire.
Rom. By the hour of nine.
Rom. Can I go forward when my heart is here?
Rom. Come hither, man. I see that thou art poor.
Rom. Commend me to thy lady.
Rom. Courage, man. The hurt cannot be much.
Rom. Do so, and bid my sweet prepare to chide.
Rom. Draw, Benvolio; beat down their weapons.
Rom. Farewell!
Rom. Farewell, farewell! One kiss, and I'll descend.
Rom. Father, what news? What is the Prince's doom
Rom. For your broken shin.
Rom. Gentle Mercutio, put thy rapier up.
Rom. Give me a torch. I am not for this ambling.
Rom. Go to! I say you shall.
Rom. Good heart, at what?
Rom. Good morrow to you both. What counterfeit did I give you?
Rom. Good morrow, father.
Rom. Ha, banishment? Be merciful, say 'death';
Rom. Have not saints lips, and holy palmers too?
Rom. He jests at scars that never felt a wound.
Rom. Here's goodly gear!
Rom. How should they, when that wise men have no eyes?
Rom. How well my comfort is reviv'd by this!
Rom. I am too sore enpierced with his shaft
Rom. I can tell you; but young Romeo will be older when you have
Rom. I do protest I never injur'd thee,
Rom. I doubt it not; and all these woes shall serve
Rom. I dreamt a dream to-night.
Rom. I fear, too early; for my mind misgives
Rom. I have night's cloak to hide me from their sight;
Rom. I pay thy poverty and not thy will.
Rom. I pray thee chide not. She whom I love now
Rom. I stretch it out for that word 'broad,' which, added to the
Rom. I take thee at thy word.
Rom. I thought all for the best.
Rom. I warrant thee my man's as true as steel.
Rom. I will follow you.
Rom. I would I were thy bird.
Rom. I'll go along, no such sight to be shown,
Rom. I'll tell thee ere thou ask it me again.
Rom. If I may trust the flattering truth of sleep
Rom. If I profane with my unworthiest hand
Rom. If my heart's dear love-
Rom. In bed asleep, while they do dream things true.
Rom. Indeed I should have ask'd you that before.
Rom. Is it e'en so? Then I defy you, stars!
Rom. Is love a tender thing? It is too rough,
Rom. Is she a Capulet?
Rom. Is the day so young?
Rom. It is my soul that calls upon my name.
Rom. It was the lark, the herald of the morn;
Rom. Lady, by yonder blessed moon I swear,
Rom. Let me be ta'en, let me be put to death.
Rom. Let me stand here till thou remember it.
Rom. Meaning, to cursy.
Rom. More light and light- more dark and dark our woes!
Rom. My dear?
Rom. Nay, good goose, bite not!
Rom. Nay, that's not so.
Rom. Neither, fair saint, if either thee dislike.
Rom. No matter. Get thee gone
Rom. Not I, believe me. You have dancing shoes
Rom. Not I; unless the breath of heartsick groans,
Rom. Not having that which having makes them short.
Rom. Not mad, but bound more than a madman is;
Rom. Nurse, commend me to thy lady and mistress. I protest unto
Rom. O blessed, blessed night! I am afeard,
Rom. O single-sold jest, solely singular for the singleness!
Rom. O, I am fortune's fool!
Rom. O, let us hence! I stand on sudden haste.
Rom. O, she doth teach the torches to burn bright!
Rom. O, teach me how I should forget to think!
Rom. O, then, dear saint, let lips do what hands do!
Rom. O, thou wilt speak again of banishment.
Rom. O, wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied?
Rom. One, gentlewoman, that God hath made for himself to mar.
Rom. Out of her favour where I am in love.
Rom. Out-
Rom. Pardon, good Mercutio. My business was great, and in such a
Rom. Peace, peace, Mercutio, peace!
Rom. Pink for flower.
Rom. She hath, and in that sparing makes huge waste;
Rom. She speaks.
Rom. Sin from my lips? O trespass sweetly urg'd!
Rom. Sleep dwell upon thine eyes, peace in thy breast!
Rom. So thrive my soul-
Rom. Spakest thou of Juliet? How is it with her?
Rom. Stay, fellow; I can read.                       He reads.
Rom. Swits and spurs, swits and spurs! or I'll cry a match.
Rom. Th' exchange of thy love's faithful vow for mine.
Rom. That last is true-the sweeter rest was mine.
Rom. Then move not while my prayer's effect I take.
Rom. Then plainly know my heart's dear love is set
Rom. There is no world without Verona walls,
Rom. There is thy gold- worse poison to men's souls,
Rom. This day's black fate on moe days doth depend;
Rom. This gentleman, the Prince's near ally,
Rom. This shall determine that.
Rom. Thou canst not speak of that thou dost not feel.
Rom. Thou chid'st me oft for loving Rosaline.
Rom. Thou wast never with me for anything when thou wast not there
Rom. Tush, thou art deceiv'd.
Rom. Tut! I have lost myself; I am not here:
Rom. Tybalt, the reason that I have to love thee
Rom. Well, in that hit you miss. She'll not be hit
Rom. Well, what was yours?
Rom. What hast thou found?
Rom. What is her mother?
Rom. What less than doomsday is the Prince's doom?
Rom. What say'st thou, my dear nurse?
Rom. What shall I swear by?
Rom. What wilt thou tell her, nurse? Thou dost not mark me.
Rom. What, shall I groan and tell thee?
Rom. What, shall this speech be spoke for our excuse?
Rom. When the devout religion of mine eye
Rom. Whither?
Rom. Whose house?
Rom. Why, such is love's transgression.
Rom. Why, then is my pump well-flower'd.
Rom. With Rosaline, my ghostly father? No.
Rom. With love's light wings did I o'erperch these walls;
Rom. Would'st thou withdraw it? For what purpose, love?
Rom. Yet 'banished'? Hang up philosophy!
Rom. Your plantain leaf is excellent for that.
Rom. [aside] Shall I hear more, or shall I speak at this?
Rom. [to a Servingman] What lady's that, which doth enrich the hand
Romeo, son to Montague.
SCRIVENER. Here is the indictment of the good Lord Hastings;
SECOND CITIZEN. Ay, sir, it is too true; God help the while!
SECOND CITIZEN. I promise you, I scarcely know myself.
SECOND CITIZEN. Ill news, by'r lady; seldom comes the
SECOND CITIZEN. In him there is a hope of government,
SECOND CITIZEN. Marry, we were sent for to the justices.
SECOND CITIZEN. Truly, the hearts of men are fun of fear.
SECOND MESSENGER. In Kent, my liege, the Guilfords are in
SECOND MURDERER. 'Tis better, sir, than to be tedious. Let
SECOND MURDERER. 'Tis no matter; let it go; there's few or
SECOND MURDERER. A bloody deed, and desperately
SECOND MURDERER. And he that hath commanded is our
SECOND MURDERER. And that same vengeance doth he hurl
SECOND MURDERER. I would he knew that I had sav'd his
SECOND MURDERER. I'll not meddle with it-it makes a man
SECOND MURDERER. Look behind you, my lord.
SECOND MURDERER. Make peace with God, for you must die,
SECOND MURDERER. Nay, I prithee, stay a little. I hope this
SECOND MURDERER. Never, my lord; therefore prepare to die.
SECOND MURDERER. Nor you as we are, loyal.
SECOND MURDERER. Not to kill him, having a warrant; but to
SECOND MURDERER. O excellent device! and make a sop of
SECOND MURDERER. O, in the Duke of Gloucester's purse!
SECOND MURDERER. So I am, to let him live.
SECOND MURDERER. Spoke like a tall man that respects thy
SECOND MURDERER. Strike!
SECOND MURDERER. Take the devil in thy mind and believe
SECOND MURDERER. The urging of that word judgment hath
SECOND MURDERER. To, to, to-
SECOND MURDERER. What shall we do?
SECOND MURDERER. What, shall I stab him as he sleeps?
SECOND MURDERER. Whom thou wast sworn to cherish and
SECOND MURDERER. Why, he shall never wake until the great
SECOND MURDERER. You are deceiv'd: your brother Gloucester
SECOND MURDERER. You shall have wine enough, my lord,
SECOND MURDERER. Zounds, he dies; I had forgot the reward.
SHERIFF. It is, my lord.
SHERIFF. No, my good lord; therefore be patient.
SIR Gilbert Talbot, Sir William Stanley,
SON. Ah, aunt, you wept not for our father's death!
SON. Good grandam, tell us, is our father dead?
SON. Grandam, we can; for my good uncle Gloucester
SON. I cannot think it. Hark! what noise is this?
SON. Then you conclude, my grandam, he is dead.
SON. Think you my uncle did dissemble, grandam?
SON. Why do you look on us, and shake your head,
STANLEY did dream the boar did raze our helms,
STANLEY, what news with you?
STANLEY. Come, madam, come; I in all haste was sent.
STANLEY. Full of wise care is this your counsel, madam.
STANLEY. I know not, mighty sovereign, but by guess.
STANLEY. Know, my loving lord,
STANLEY. Let me but meet you, ladies, one hour hence,
STANLEY. Most mighty sovereign,
STANLEY. My lord, good morrow; good morrow, Catesby.
STANLEY. No, my good lord, my friends are in the north.
STANLEY. No, my good lord; therefore mistrust me not.
STANLEY. None good, my liege, to please you with
STANLEY. Richmond is on the seas.
STANLEY. Sir Christopher, tell Richmond this from me:
STANLEY. So deal with him as I prove true to you.         Exit
STANLEY. Stirr'd up by Dorset, Buckingham, and Morton,
STANLEY. The lords at Pomfret, when they rode from
STANLEY. They have not been commanded, mighty King.
STANLEY. They, for their truth, might better wear their
STANLEY. Unless for that, my liege, I cannot guess.
STANLEY. Well, hie thee to thy lord; I kiss his hand;
STANLEY. What men of name resort to him?
SURREY. My heart is ten times lighter than my looks.
Samp. 'Tis all one. I will show myself a tyrant. When I have fought
Samp. 'Tis true; and therefore women, being the weaker vessels, are
Samp. A dog of that house shall move me to stand. I will take the
Samp. A dog of the house of Montague moves me.
Samp. Ay, the heads of the maids, or their maidenheads.
Samp. But if you do, sir, am for you. I serve as good a man as you.
Samp. Draw, if you be men. Gregory, remember thy swashing blow.
Samp. Fear me not.
Samp. Gregory, on my word, we'll not carry coals.
Samp. I do bite my thumb, sir.
Samp. I mean, an we be in choler, we'll draw.
Samp. I strike quickly, being moved.
Samp. Let us take the law of our sides; let them begin.
Samp. Me they shall feel while I am able to stand; and 'tis known I
Samp. My naked weapon is out. Quarrel! I will back thee.
Samp. Nay, as they dare. I will bite my thumb at them; which is
Samp. No, sir, I do not bite my thumb at you, sir; but I bite my
Samp. Well, sir.
Samp. Yes, better, sir.
Samp. [aside to Gregory] Is the law of our side if I say ay?
Sampson, servant to Capulet.
Serv. Find them out whose names are written here? It is written
Serv. God gi' go-den. I pray, sir, can you read?
Serv. I know not, sir.
Serv. Madam, the guests are come, supper serv'd up, you call'd, my
Serv. Marry, sir, 'tis an ill cook that cannot lick his own
Serv. My master's.
Serv. Now I'll tell you without asking. My master is the great rich
Serv. Perhaps you have learned it without book. But I pray, can you
Serv. To supper, to our house.
Serv. Up.
Serv. Ye say honestly. Rest you merry!
Serv. You shall have none ill, sir; for I'll try if they can lick
THIRD CITIZEN. And so was I; I'll bear you company.
THIRD CITIZEN. Before the days of change, still is it so;
THIRD CITIZEN. Better it were they all came by his father,
THIRD CITIZEN. Doth the news hold of good King Edward's
THIRD CITIZEN. Neighbours, God speed!
THIRD CITIZEN. Stood the state so? No, no, good friends,
THIRD CITIZEN. Then, masters, look to see a troublous
THIRD CITIZEN. When clouds are seen, wise men put on
THIRD CITIZEN. Woe to that land that's govern'd by a child.
THIRD MESSENGER. My lord, the army of great Buckingham-
THIRD MESSENGER. Such proclamation hath been made,
THIRD MESSENGER. The news I have to tell your Majesty
TYRREL, I mean those bastards in the Tower.
TYRREL. I did, my lord.
TYRREL. I humbly take my leave.                           Exit
TYRREL. I will dispatch it straight.                      Exit
TYRREL. If to have done the thing you gave in charge
TYRREL. James Tyrrel, and your most obedient subject.
TYRREL. Let me have open means to come to them,
TYRREL. Please you;
TYRREL. Prove me, my gracious lord.
TYRREL. The chaplain of the Tower hath buried them;
TYRREL. The tyrannous and bloody act is done,
Three Musicians.
Tyb. 'Tis he, that villain Romeo.
Tyb. Boy, this shall not excuse the injuries
Tyb. Follow me close, for I will speak to them.
Tyb. I am for you.                                    [Draws.]
Tyb. It fits when such a villain is a guest.
Tyb. Mercutio, thou consortest with Romeo.
Tyb. Patience perforce with wilful choler meeting
Tyb. Romeo, the love I bear thee can afford
Tyb. This, by his voice, should be a Montague.
Tyb. Thou, wretched boy, that didst consort him here,
Tyb. Uncle, this is a Montague, our foe;
Tyb. Well, peace be with you, sir. Here comes my man.
Tyb. What wouldst thou have with me?
Tyb. What, art thou drawn among these hear