








Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
[Exit.]
[Music]
[Music.]
[Exeunt.]
[Exeunt.]
[Exeunt.]
Exit SNOUT
[Unmasks.]
Exeunt ambo.
[They sleep]
Exit BARDOLPH
Exit FALSTAFF
Exeunt Ladies.
Exit DEMETRIUS
Exit MRS. FORD
Exit Margaret.
[Hero swoons.]
[Exit Antonio.]
[Exit Antonio.]
Dance. [Exeunt.]
Exit MRS. PAGE
Exit PHILOSTRATE
[Giving a paper]
Exeunt SERVANTS
[They walk away.]
[They walk away.]
[Balthasar sings.]
[Takes her aside.]
LION, and MOONSHINE
[Touching her eyes]
[They converse apart]
Exeunt. Manet Claudio.
[Hangs up the scroll.]
[Lies down and sleeps]
[Lies down and sleeps]
Exeunt HOST and BARDOLPH
Exeunt MRS. PAGE and ANNE
Exeunt PYRAMUS and THISBY
Exeunt [Hero and Ursula].
[Lies down upon his face]
Exeunt MRS. PAGE and ROBIN
[FALSTAFF hides himself]
Exit TITANIA with her train
[They approach the arbour.]
[WALL holds up his fingers]
awake and kneel to THESEUS]
Exeunt LYSANDER and DEMETRIUS
Exeunt [Dogberry and Verges].
Exeunt all but BOTTOM and PUCK
Exeunt all but CAIUS and EVANS
[Exeunt Benedick and Leonato.]
[Exeunt Don Pedro and Claudio.]
[Exeunt Leonato and Messenger.]
Exit Balthasar [with Musicians].
Enter Beatrice.
Exeunt PAGE, SHALLOW, and SLENDER
Exeunt PAGE, SHALLOW, and SLENDER
Exeunt PROLOGUE, PYRAMUS, THISBY,
CAIUS, and RUGBY
Exeunt all but LYSANDER and HERMIA
Exeunt. Manent Benedick and Claudio.
Re-enter PUCK
Enter BOTTOM
Enter SNUG
[Horns and shout within. The sleepers
[Pulling clothes out of the basket]
and DEMETRIUS
Enter FORD
Enter PUCK
Enter PUCK
Enter PUCK behind
Enter THISBY
Re-enter QUINCE
Re-enter SNOUT
The FAIRIES Sing
Enter BARDOLPH
Enter CAIUS
Enter Don Pedro.
Enter HELENA
Enter PUCK
Enter ROBIN
Enter Ursula.
Enter Ursula.
Exeunt [all but Benedick and Beatrice].
Enter SLENDER
Re-enter PYRAMUS
Re-enter THISBY
SIR HUGH EVANS
[Squeezing the juice on LYSANDER'S eyes]
at another, with hers
Enter Borachio.
Enter Don Pedro.
Enter FORD disguised
Enter HELENA
Enter HERMIA
Enter Messenger.
Enter PYRAMUS
Exeunt [Don Pedro, Claudio, and Leonato].
Re-enter PHILOSTRATE
Re-enter PUCK
Re-enter SIMPLE
Re-enter THISBY
[Enter a Messenger.]
Conrade and Borachio.
EGEUS, and train
Enter DEMETRIUS
Enter FALSTAFF
Enter LYSANDER
Enter MISTRESS PAGE
Epitaph.
Music [within].
OBERON behind, unseen
Re-enter LYSANDER
The Song.
[Exeunt Don Pedro, Don Juan, and Claudio.]
Enter Borachio and Conrade.
Enter HERMIA
Enter LYSANDER and HERMIA
Enter MISTRESS QUICKLY
Enter PUCK with a broom
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS
Exeunt THESEUS, HIPPOLYTA, EGEUS, and train
Re-enter MISTRESS FORD
Song.
Enter BARDOLPH
Enter Beatrice.
Enter FALSTAFF
[Enter Boy.]
Enter Balthasar with Music.
Enter LION and MOONSHINE
Enter LYSANDER and HELENA
Of prison gates;
The foolish Fates.'
[Enter Beatrice.]
Enter Benedick [unmasked].
Enter Benedick.
Enter DOCTOR CAIUS
Enter FENTON and ANNE PAGE
Re-enter BARDOLPH, with sack
Re-enter FALSTAFF
'The raging rocks
And Phibbus' car
And make and mar
And shivering shocks
Beetles black, approach not near;
Enter Beatrice.
Enter DEMETRIUS and HERMIA
Enter FORD disguised
Enter HOST, CAIUS, and RUGBY
Enter John the Bastard.
Enter QUINCE as the PROLOGUE
Enter SERVANTS with a basket
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS
Hence, you long-legg'd spinners, hence.
I'll apply
In the sight
Jack shall have Jill;
Nought shall go ill;
Re-enter PUCK and DEMETRIUS
Re-enter SERVANTS
Shall break the locks
Shall shine from far,
Sleep sound;
Thou tak'st
To your eye,
True delight
When thou wak'st,
Worm nor snail do no offence.
and look on during the dance].
And the youth mistook by me
And those things do best please me
As the Venus of the sky.
Beg of her for remedy.
Enter MISTRESS QUICKLY
Hand in hand, with fairy grace,
Helena is here at hand,
Hit with Cupid's archery,
Let her shine as gloriously
Lord, what fools these mortals be!
Pleading for a lover's fee;
Shall we their fond pageant see?
Sink in apple of his eye.
That befall prepost'rously.
That must needs be sport alone;
Thorough bush, thorough brier,
Thorough flood, thorough fire,
To each word a warbling note;
When his love he doth espy,
When thou wak'st, if she be by,
Will cause Demetrius to awake.
Will we sing, and bless this place.
[Benedick advances from the arbour.]
And farewell, friends;
Are gone, are gone;
Come not near our fairy Queen.
Come our lovely lady nigh.
Come, come to me,
Come, trusty sword;
Dead, dead? A tomb
Enter DEMETRIUS and HELENA, running
Enter DEMETRIUS, HELENA following him
Enter PAGE, SHALLOW, and SLENDER
Hobgoblin; all with tapers
Lay them in gore,
Lovers, make moan;
Lulla, lulla, lullaby; lulla, lulla, lullaby.
Never harm
Newts and blind-worms, do no wrong,
Nor spell nor charm
O Sisters Three,
One aloof stand sentinel.          Exeunt FAIRIES
Re-enter MISTRESS PAGE and ROBIN
Since you have shore
Sing in our sweet lullaby.
So good night, with lullaby.
Speak, speak. Quite dumb?
That sits above
These lily lips,
This cherry nose,
Thorny hedgehogs, be not seen;
Thus Thisby ends;
Tongue, not a word.
What, dead, my dove?
[Beatrice hides in the arbour].
And I serve the Fairy Queen,
Cupid is a knavish lad,
Enter Don Pedro and Claudio.
Enter Don Pedro, Leonato, Claudio.
Here she comes, curst and sad.
I do hear the morning lark.
I do wander every where,
In their gold coats spots you see;
In those freckles live their savours.
Over park, over pale,
Re-enter BARDOLPH, with FORD disguised
Swifter than the moon's sphere;
Swifter than the wand'ring moon.
Tell me how it came this night
That I sleeping here was found
The cowslips tall her pensioners be;
Those be rubies, fairy favours,
Thus to make poor females mad.
To dew her orbs upon the green.
Trip we after night's shade.
Two of both kinds makes up four.
We the globe can compass soon,
With these mortals on the ground.           Exeunt
Adieu, adieu, adieu.                         [Dies]
All the power this charm doth owe:
All with weary task fordone.
And Robin shall restore amends.                Exit
And each several chamber bless,
And here the maiden, sleeping sound,
And the blots of Nature's hand
And the issue there create
And the owner of it blest
And the wolf behowls the moon;
And this ditty, after me,
And this weak and idle theme,
And we fairies, that do run
And, as I am an honest Puck,
Ay, that left pap,
But Athenian found I none
But mark, poor knight,
But stay, O spite!
By the dead and drowsy fire;
By the triple Hecate's team
Churl, upon thy eyes I throw
Come, blade, my breast imbrue.      [Stabs herself]
Come, tears, confound;
Cut thread and thrum;
Despised in nativity,
Despised the Athenian maid;
Else the Puck a liar call.
Ever shall be fortunate.
Ever shall in safety rest.
Ever true in loving be;
Every elf and fairy sprite
Every fairy take his gait,
Every one lets forth his sprite,
Eyes, do you see?
Following darkness like a dream,
For I must now to Oberon.                      Exit
From the presence of the sun,
Gentles, do not reprehend.
Give me your hands, if we be friends,
Goblin, lead them up and down.
His eyes were green as leeks.
Hop as light as bird from brier;
How can it he?
How pitiful I deserve--
I am fear'd in field and town.
I am sent with broom before,
I will lead them up and down.
If we have unearned luck
If you pardon, we will mend.
In remembrance of a shroud.
In the church-way paths to glide.
Meet me all by break of day.    Exeunt all but PUCK
Moon, take thy flight.             [Exit MOONSHINE]
Must cover thy sweet eyes.
Near this lack-love, this kill-courtesy.
Never mole, hare-lip, nor scar,
Night and silence- Who is here?
No more yielding but a dream,
Nor mark prodigious, such as are
Now am I dead,
Now am I fled;
Now are frolic. Not a mouse
Now it is the time of night
Now the wasted brands do glow,
Now to scape the serpent's tongue,
O Fates! come, come;
O Pyramus, arise,
On the dank and dirty ground.
On whose eyes I might approve
Out, sword, and wound
Pretty soul! she durst not lie
Puts the wretch that lies in woe
Shall disturb this hallowed house.
Shall not in their issue stand;
Shall upon their children be.
Sing and dance it trippingly.
Sleep his seat on thy eyelid.
So awake when I am gone;
So shall all the couples three
So, good night unto you all.
That the graves, all gaping wide,
That you have but slumb'red here
These yellow cowslip cheeks,
Think but this, and all is mended,
This flower's force in stirring love.
This is he, my master said,
Through this house each fairy stray.
Through this palace, with sweet peace;
Thy mantle good,
To sweep the dust behind the door.
To the best bride-bed will we,
Tongue, lose thy light;
Trip away; make no stay;
We will make amends ere long;
Weeds of Athens he doth wear:
What! stain'd with blood?
When thou wak'st let love forbid
Where heart doth hop.               [Stabs himself]
Which by us shall blessed be;
While these visions did appear.
Whilst the heavy ploughman snores,
Whilst the screech-owl, screeching loud,
With hands as pale as milk;
With shears his thread of silk.
With this field-dew consecrate,
[They put the tapers to his fingers, and he starts]
And dares not answer nay-
But let them go,
Enter HOST, SHALLOW, SLENDER, and PAGE
Enter PAGE and MISTRESS PAGE
Margaret, Ursula, [the ladies wearing masks].
PYRAMUS and THISBY, WALL, MOONSHINE, and LION
Re-enter MISTRESS FORD, with two SERVANTS
Re-enter PUCK, and BOTTOM with an ass's head
The plain-song cuckoo grey,
The wren with little quill.
Then sigh not so,
Then sigh not so, &c.
With orange-tawny bill,
And knows me, and knows me,
Approach, ye Furies fell.
Be as thou wast wont to be;
Dian's bud o'er Cupid's flower
Enter Claudio and Beatrice, Leonato, Hero.
Hath such force and blessed power.
My soul is in the sky.
Now die, die, die, die, die.                   [Dies]
O dainty duck! O dear!
Quail, crush, conclude, and quell.
See as thou was wont to see.
The pap of Pyramus;
Thus die I, thus, thus, thus.
What dreadful dole is here!
[OBERON leading, the FAIRIES sing and dance]
And be you blithe and bonny,
And the country proverb known,
Enter EGEUS, and his daughter HERMIA, LYSANDER,
Enter LYSANDER, DEMETRIUS, HERMIA, and HELENA
Enter Leonato, his brother [Antonio], and the Sexton.
Enter, with a trumpet before them, as in dumb show,
Gentle lover, remedy.
Gives her fame which never dies.
Heavily, heavily,
Heavily, heavily.
In your waking shall be shown:
Into Hey nonny, nonny.
Men were deceivers ever,
Of dumps so dull and heavy!
Of thy former lady's eye;
Since summer first was leavy.
That every man should take his own,
The finch, the sparrow, and the lark,
The ousel cock, so black of hue,
The throstle with his note so true,
To one thing constant never.
Was the Hero that here lies.
Whose note full many a man doth mark,
Enter FORD, PAGE, CAIUS, and SIR HUGH EVANS
Enter OBERON and TITANIA, with all their train
[Enter Antonio's Son with a Musician, and others.]
CAIUS comes one way, and steals away a fairy in
Converting all your sounds of woe
Dance. Exeunt (all but Don John, Borachio, and Claudio].
Death, in guerdon of her wrongs,
Done to death by slanderous tongues
During this song they pinch FALSTAFF. DOCTOR
Enter MISTRESS FORD and MISTRESS PAGE
Enter SHALLOW, SLENDER, and MISTRESS QUICKLY
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS like a satyr, ANNE PAGE as
FALSTAFF pulls off his buck's head, and rises
For the which, with songs of woe,
Graves, yawn and yield your dead,
Help us to sigh and groan
Lives in death with glorious fame.
Midnight, assist our moan,
One foot in sea, and one on shore;
Pardon, goddess of the night,
Round about her tomb they go.
Sigh no more, ladies, sigh no more!
Sing no more ditties, sing no moe,
So the life that died with shame
The fraud of men was ever so,
Those that slew thy virgin knight;
Till death be uttered
To the winding of horns, enter THESEUS, HIPPOLYTA,
green; SLENDER another way, and takes off a fairy in
of hunting is heard within. All the fairies run away.
white; and FENTON steals away ANNE PAGE. A noise
Don John [and Borachio (without masks), who stand aside
Enter Don Pedro and Claudio and two or three other.
Enter OBERON at one door, with his TRAIN, and TITANIA,
Enter PAGE, FORD, MISTRESS PAGE, MISTRESS FORD, and
Enter PEASEBLOSSOM, COBWEB, MOTH, and MUSTARDSEED
Enter [Leonato's] brother [Antonio], Hero, Beatrice,
Re-enter FORD, PAGE, CAIUS, and SIR HUGH EVANS
[Sings] The god of love,
[With them enter Antonio, also masked. After them enter]
Enter OBERON and squeezes the flower on TITANIA'S eyelids
Margaret,
a fairy, and OTHERS as the Fairy Queen, fairies, and
sight?
Enter PAGE, SHALLOW, SLENDER, HOST, SIR HUGH EVANS,
from his book, and it is wonderful.
her!
old ornament of his cheek hath already stuff'd tennis balls.
'A tedious brief scene of young Pyramus
'Benedick' and 'Beatrice' between the sheet?
'Father, as it please me.'
'Father, as it please you.' But yet for all that, cousin, let him
'Here is good horse to hire,' let them signify under my sign
'Here you may see Benedick the married man.'
'Hundred Merry Tales.' Well, this was Signior Benedick that said
'In time the savage bull doth bear the yoke.'
'Love like a shadow flies when substance love pursues;
'The riot of the tipsy Bacchanals,
'The thrice three Muses mourning for the death
'Tis certain so. The Prince wooes for himself.
'Tis old but true: Still swine eats all the draff.      Exit
'Twas bravely done, if you bethink you of it.
'benedictus.'
'school', 'fool'--a babbling rhyme: very ominous endings! No, I
'tis a playing day, I see.
'tis grossly done; so it be fairly done, no matter.
(Exit Boy.) I do much wonder that one man, seeing how much
(Having so swift and excellent a wit
(If ever love had interest in his liver)
--'tis so, I cannot reprove it; and wise, but for loving me--by
--I did never think that lady would have loved any man.
--[To the Musician] O, I cry you mercy, friend. Go you with me,
--an innocent rhyme; for 'scorn,' 'horn'--a hard rhyme; for
-a man of my kidney. Think of that-that am as subject to
-and you have been a man long known to me, though I
-hissing hot. Think of that, Master Brook.
A crew of patches, rude mechanicals,
A fortnight hold we this solemnity,
A halting sonnet of his own pure brain,
A hog, a headless bear, sometime a fire;
A hundred pound in gold more than your loss.
A lion fell, nor else no lion's dam;
A local habitation and a name.
A lovely boy, stolen from an Indian king.
A merrier hour was never wasted there.
A million fail, confounding oath on oath.
A poor soul's patience, all to make you sport.
A sin of perjury: she not denies it.
A sweet Athenian lady is in love
A third is fled--that had a hand in it.
A thousand blushing apparitions
A thousand irreligious cursed hours,
A thousand times in secret.
A time that lovers' flights doth still conceal,
A trim exploit, a manly enterprise,
A weak bond holds you; I'll not trust your word.
Abate thy hours! Shine comforts from the east,
Abhor me.
Ability in means, and choice of friends,
About him, fairies; sing a scornful rhyme;
About thy thoughts and counsels of thy heart!
Accompany your hearts!
Accusativo, hung, hang, hog.
Adam had left him before he transgress'd. She would have made
Adam.
Against her maiden truth. Call me a fool;
Against my child, my daughter Hermia.
Against our nuptial, and confer with you
Against that power that bred it. There will she hide her
Against whose charms faith melteth into blood.
Against yourself.
Ah, good Demetrius, wilt thou give him me?
Alack, where are you? Speak, an if you hear;
Albeit I will confess thy father's wealth
All fancy-sick she is and pale of cheer,
All matter else seems weak. She cannot love,
All prompting me how fair young Hero is,
All school-days' friendship, childhood innocence?
All you that see her, that she were a maid
Almost the copy of my child that's dead,
Already to their wormy beds are gone,
Although I hate her, I'll not harm her so.
Although against her will, as it appears
Always excepted my dear Claudio.
Am I ridden with a Welsh goat too? Shall I have a cox-comb
Am not I Hermia? Are not you Lysander?
An actor too perhaps, if I see cause.
An adder did it; for with doubler tongue
An ass's nole I fixed on his head.
An odorous chaplet of sweet summer buds
And 'Honi soit qui mal y pense' write
And 'tailor' cries, and falls into a cough;
And 'tis not wisdom thus to second grief
And 'tis the very riches of thyself
And Helena of Athens look thou find;
And I do love thee; therefore, go with me.
And I have found Demetrius like a jewel,
And I in fury hither followed them,
And I of him will gather patience.
And I shall have no power to follow you.
And I will break with her and with her father,
And I will fit thee with the remedy.
And I will overhear their conference.
And I will purge thy mortal grossness so
And Thisby, tarrying in mulberry shade,
And a thousand fragrant posies.
And a thousand vagram posies.
And all Europa shall rejoice at thee,
And all of them that thus dishonour her.
And all the faith, the virtue of my heart,
And all their minds transfigur'd so together,
And are you grown so high in his esteem
And as I find her, so am I affected;
And as he errs, doting on Hermia's eyes,
And as imagination bodies forth
And as she fled, her mantle she did fall;
And ask him why, that hour of fairy revel,
And at our stamp here, o'er and o'er one falls;
And at the dean'ry, where a priest attends,
And back to Athens shall the lovers wend
And bid her steal into the pleached bower,
And bid him speak to me of patience.
And bless it to all fair prosperity.
And bootless make the breathless housewife churn,
And bowl'd to death with turnips.
And brought with armed men back to Messina.
And burn him with their tapers.
And by and by I will to thee appear.                    Exit
And by that fatherly and kindly power
And by that fire which burn'd the Carthage Queen,
And by the way let us recount our dreams.             Exeunt
And certain stars shot madly from their spheres
And come, Egeus; you shall go with me;
And counsel him to fight against his passion.
And crows are fatted with the murrion flock;
And dar'st not stand, nor look me in the face.
And drop the liquor of it in her eyes;
And duty in his service perishing.
And ere I take this charm from off her sight,
And ere a man hath power to say 'Behold!'
And every lovely organ of her life
And fairy-like, to pinch the unclean knight;
And finds his trusty Thisby's mantle slain;
And firm for Doctor Caius, hath appointed
And fled he is upon this villany.
And follow you no further. Let me go.
And for her sake I will not part with him.
And for her sake do I rear up her boy;
And for night-tapers crop their waxen thighs,
And forth my mimic comes. When they him spy,
And from each other look thou lead them thus,
And from thy hated presence part I so;
And give her to young Claudio.
And given way unto this course of fortune,
And good luck grant thee thy Demetrius!
And got a calf in that same noble feat
And greedily devour the treacherous bait.
And grow big-bellied with the wanton wind;
And grows to something of great constancy,
And hang a pearl in every cowslip's ear.
And hast thou kill'd him sleeping? O brave touch!
And he my husband best of all affects.
And heard a mermaid on a dolphin's back
And here am I, and wood within this wood,
And here it rests-that you'll procure the vicar
And here will rest me. [Lies down] Come, thou gentle day.
And here, with all good will, with all my heart,
And his love Thisby; very tragical mirth.'
And if it sort not well, you may conceal her,
And if their wisdoms be misled in this,
And in her bosom I'll unclasp my heart
And in her eye there hath appear'd a fire
And in that habit, when Slender sees his time
And in the lawful name of marrying,
And in the modesty of fearful duty
And in the shape of Corin sat all day,
And in the wood, a league without the town,
And in this shape. When you have brought him thither,
And interchang'd love-tokens with my child;
And it is nothing, nothing in the world;
And jealous Oberon would have the child
And kill me too.
And kiss thy fair large ears, my gentle joy.
And laid the love-juice on some true-love's sight.
And laugh this sport o'er by a country fire;
And lead these testy rivals so astray
And leads me to your eyes, where I o'erlook
And leave thee to the mercy of wild beasts.
And left sweet Pyramus translated there;
And let it answer every strain for strain,
And let my counsel sway you in this case.
And let us two devise to bring him thither.
And light them at the fiery glow-worm's eyes,
And like Limander am I trusty still.
And look thou meet me ere the first cock crow.
And loos'd his love-shaft smartly from his bow,
And made a push at chance and sufferance.
And made defeat of her virginity--
And made your other love, Demetrius,
And maidens call it Love-in-idleness.
And make her full of hateful fantasies.
And make him with fair Aegles break his faith,
And make his eyeballs roll with wonted sight.
And makes milch-kine yield blood, and shakes a chain
And mark the musical confusion
And marry her at Eton.-Go, send to Falstaff straight.
And mine that I was proud on--mine so much
And mock him home to Windsor.
And must for aye consort with black-brow'd night.
And neigh, and bark, and grunt, and roar, and burn,
And never did desire to see thee more.
And never gives to truth and virtue that
And never mayst thou come Lysander near!
And never shall it more be gracious.
And never to let Beatrice know of it.
And never, since the middle summer's spring,
And nightly, meadow-fairies, look you sing,
And none but he, to marry with Nan Page.
And not retire. Let me have your good will.
And now I do bethink me, so it is-
And now I have the boy, I will undo
And now both rivals, to mock Helena.
And now have toil'd their unbreathed memories
And now they never meet in grove or green,
And now to Helen is it home return'd,
And now, so you will let me quiet go,
And on her withered dewlap pour the ale.
And on my eyelids shall conjecture hang,
And on old Hiems' thin and icy crown
And on your family's old monument
And pluck the wings from painted butterflies,
And publish it that she is dead indeed;
And rattles in their hands; upon a sudden,
And reason says you are the worthier maid.
And rock the ground whereon these sleepers be.
And salt too little which may season give
And sat with me on Neptune's yellow sands,
And see our moonlight revels, go with us;
And she alone is heir to both of us.
And she in mild terms begg'd my patience,
And she is dead, slander'd to death by villains,
And she is mine; and all my right of her
And she lied buried with her ancestors-
And she respects me as her only son.
And since we have the vaward of the day,
And since you could not be my son-in-law,
And sing it to her bones--sing it to-night.
And sing, while thou on pressed flowers dost sleep;
And sleep, that sometimes shuts up sorrow's eye,
And so I pray thee call Beatrice. I give thee the bucklers.
And so dies my revenge.
And so extenuate the forehand sin.
And so far am I glad it so did sort,
And so far blameless proves my enterprise
And so they shall be both bestowed. I have suffer'd more
And some such strange bull leap'd your father's cow
And sometime lurk I in a gossip's bowl
And sometime make the drink to bear no barm,
And sometime rail thou like Demetrius;
And speak off half a dozen dang'rous words,
And stick musk-roses in thy sleek smooth head,
And stol'n my love's heart from him?
And stol'n the impression of her fantasy
And strong encounter of my amorous tale.
And such a wall as I would have you think
And surely as I live, I am a maid.
And take her hearing prisoner with the force
And tarry for the comfort of the day.
And tell fair Hero I am Claudio,
And tells me 'tis a thing impossible
And tender me, forsooth, affection,
And that same dew which sometime on the buds
And that shall Claudio know; so shall the Prince,
And that, my state being gall'd with my expense,
And the Athenian woman by his side;
And the conclusion is, she shall be thine.
And the ill counsel of a desert place,
And the imperial vot'ress passed on,
And the quaint mazes in the wanton green,
And then I will her charmed eye release
And then end life when I end loyalty!
And then the moon, like to a silver bow
And then the whole quire hold their hips and laugh,
And then to Leonato's we will go.
And thence from Athens turn away our eyes,
And there he blasts the tree, and takes the cattle,
And there the snake throws her enamell'd skin,
And therefore certainly it were not good
And therefore is Love said to be a child,
And therefore is wing'd Cupid painted blind.
And they shall fetch thee jewels from the deep,
And think no more of this night's accidents
And this Lysander, this Demetrius is,
And this deceit loses the name of craft,
And this is all.
And this same progeny of evils comes
And this the cranny is, right and sinister,
And thorough this distemperature we see
And thou shalt have her. Wast not to this end
And thou shalt see how apt it is to learn
And thou, O wall, O sweet, O lovely wall,
And though you know my inwardness and love
And three or four more of their growth, we'll dress
And through Walls chink, poor souls, they are content
And thy fair virtue's force perforce doth move me,
And tire the hearer with a book of words.
And to that place the sharp Athenian law
And to the chapel let us presently.
And touching now the point of human skill,
And tragical, my noble lord, it is;
And tricking for our fairies.
And truly, I'll devise some honest slanders
And trust no agent; for beauty is a witch
And turn him to no pain; but if he start,
And twenty glow-worms shall our lanterns be,
And waxen in their mirth, and neeze, and swear
And what is mine my love shall render him;
And what poor duty cannot do, noble respect
And what they weigh, even to the utmost scruple,
And when I send for you, come hither mask'd.
And when she weeps, weeps every little flower;
And when the doctor spies his vantage ripe,
And when this hail some heat from Hermia felt,
And when you lov'd you were my other husband.
And will for evermore be true to it.
And will to-morrow midnight solemnly
And will you rent our ancient love asunder,
And wilt not come? Come, recreant, come, thou child;
And wish he had not so accused her--
And with Demetrius thought to have spoke thereof;
And with her personage, her tall personage,
And with the juice of this I'll streak her eyes,
And won her soul; and she, sweet lady, dotes,
And won thy love doing thee injuries;
And yet a place of high respect with me,
And yet, to satisfy this good old man,
And yet, to say the truth, reason and love keep little company
And yonder shines Aurora's harbinger,
And you sat smiling at his cruel prey.
And yours of Helena to me bequeath,
And, Benedick, love on; I will requite thee,
And, all my powers, address your love and might
And, as I am a gentleman, I'll give the
And, as you trip, still pinch him to your time.
And, being done, thus Wall away doth go.           Exit WALL
And, for the morning now is something worn,
And, gentle Puck, take this transformed scalp
And, in conclusion, dumbly have broke off,
And, in the spiced Indian air, by night,
And, like a forester, the groves may tread
And, though she be but little, she is fierce.
And, to speak troth, I have forgot our way;
And, when she drinks, against her lips I bob,
And, which is more than all these boasts can be,
And, with grey hairs and bruise of many days,
And. He shall kill two of us, and men indeed
Anne Page: to know if it were my master's fortune to
Anon comes Pyramus, sweet youth and tall,
Anon his Thisby must be answered,
Another moon; but, O, methinks, how slow
Answer, clerk.
Any hard lesson that may do thee good.
Apollo flies, and Daphne holds the chase;
Appoint a meeting with this old fat fellow,
Are hated most of those they did deceive,
Are much deceiv'd; for they did swear you did.
Are not you he?
Are now so sure that nothing can dissolve us.
Are of imagination all compact.
Are these your letters, knight?
Are you so hasty now? Well, all is one.
As Beatrice is, cannot be commendable.
As Falstaff, she, and I, are newly met,
As I am a true spirit, welcome!           [A noise of horns]
As I can take it with another herb,
As I dare take a serpent by the tongue.
As best befits her wounded reputation,
As chaste as is the bud ere it be blown;
As due to love as thoughts and dreams and sighs,
As ever Beatrice shall couch upon?
As firm as faith.
As from a voyage, rich with merchandise.
As haggards of the rock.
As he to me. Would he have stolen away
As hush'd on purpose to grace harmony!
As if our hands, our sides, voices, and minds,
As if the strings were thine, shouldst know of this.
As in revenge, have suck'd up from the sea
As it should pierce a hundred thousand hearts;
As much as may be yielded to a man:
As much as we this night have overwatch'd.
As once Europa did at lusty Jove
As one come not within another's way.
As secretly and justly as your soul
As she is mine I may dispose of her;
As she is priz'd to have) as to refuse
As the remembrance of an idle gaud
As this their jangling I esteem a sport.
As thoughts do blow them, higher and higher.
As thus for thus, and such a grief for such,
As true as truest horse, that would never tire,
As under privilege of age to brag
As waggish boys in game themselves forswear,
As water in a sieve. Give not me counsel,
As we do trace this alley up and down,
As well possess'd; my love is more than his;
As wild geese that the creeping fowler eye,
As yonder Venus in her glimmering sphere.
As you on him, Demetrius dote on you.                   Exit
At a fair vestal, throned by the west,
At hours unmeet, or that I yesternight
At large discourse while here they do remain.
At our quaint spirits. Sing me now asleep;
At whose approach ghosts, wand'ring here and there,
Athens.
Attend your office and your quality.
Attendants
Awake the pert and nimble spirit of mirth;
Away with Slender, and with him at Eton
Away with us to Athens, three and three;
Away, disperse; but till 'tis one o'clock,
Away, go, away!                                       Exeunt
Away, go; they say there is divinity in odd numbers, either
Ay me, for pity! What a dream was here!
Bashful sincerity and comely love.
Be certain, nothing truer; 'tis no jest
Be it on lion, bear, or wolf, or bull,
Be it ounce, or cat, or bear,
Be it so she will not here before your Grace
Be not as extreme in submission as in offence;
Be pold, I pray you; follow me into the pit; and when I
Be practis'd well to this or they'll nev'r do 't.
Be yet my nephew. My brother hath a daughter,
Bear it coldly but till midnight, and let the issue show itself.
Bear thee well in it and leave us alone.
Bearing the badge of faith, to prove them true?
Beatrice, get you to heaven. Here's no place for you maids.' So
Because I am so dwarfish and so low?
Because I cannot meet my Hermia.
Because in choice he is so oft beguil'd.
Because it is a customary cross,
Because she is something lower than myself,
Because that she as her attendant hath
Become the forest better than the town?
Becomes a virtuous bachelor and a maid,
Bedabbled with the dew, and torn with briers,
Before milk-white, now purple with love's wound,
Before the time I did Lysander see,
Before the wheels of Phoebus, round about
Before this friar and swear to marry her.
Begin these wood-birds but to couple now?
Behold how like a maid she blushes here!
Being o'er shoes in blood, plunge in the deep,
Believe it better than reportingly.                    Exit.
Benedick that, in despite of his quick wit and his queasy
Benedick, my dear friend Leonato hath invited you all. I tell him
Benedick.
Benedick.
Besides these, other bars he lays before me,
Besides, I'll make a present recompense.              Exeunt
Beteem them from the tempest of my eyes.
Between our after-supper and bed-time?
Between our statures; she hath urg'd her height;
Bid sorrow wag, cry 'hem' when he should groan,
Both on one sampler, sitting on one cushion,
Both strength of limb and policy of mind,
Both warbling of one song, both in one key;
Boys, apes, braggarts, jacks, milksops!
Brainford?
Brief as the lightning in the collied night
Bring me a father that so lov'd his child,
Bring you the maid, you shall not lack a priest.
Brook, I fear not Goliath with a weaver's beam; because
Brook, that you have cozen'd of money, to whom you
Brook, thou shalt know I will predominate over the
Brook-I suffered the pangs of three several deaths: first,
Brook; Master Brook, you shall cuckold Ford.            Exit
Buck, buck, buck! ay, buck! I warrant you, buck; and of
Buckled below fair knighthood's bending knee.
Bully knight! Bully Sir John! Speak from thy lungs
But I beseech your Grace that I may know
But I might see young Cupid's fiery shaft
But I persuaded them, if they lov'd Benedick,
But I shall do thee mischief in the wood.
But I will wed thee in another key,
But Margaret was in some fault for this,
But Nature never fram'd a woman's heart
But always hath been just and virtuous
But as the fierce vexation of a dream.
But by some power it is- my love to Hermia,
But by ten words, my lord, it is too long,
But by your setting on, by your consent?
But do it when the next thing he espies
But earthlier happy is the rose distill'd
But either it was different in blood-
But fare thee well, most foul, most fair! Farewell,
But fare ye well; 'tis partly my own fault,
But fare you well; perforce I must confess
But first I will release the Fairy Queen.
But hark, a voice! Stay thou but here awhile,
But hast thou yet latch'd the Athenian's eyes
But he hath chid me hence, and threat'ned me
But he, as loving his own pride and purposes,
But hear these ill news with the ears of Claudio.
But herein mean I to enrich my pain,
But howsoever strange and admirable.
But if all aim but this be levell'd false,
But in mistaking.
But lest my liking might too sudden seem,
But let our plot go forward. Let our wives
But mine, and mine I lov'd, and mine I prais'd,
But miserable most, to love unlov'd?
But no man's virtue nor sufficiency
But not for that dream I on this strange course,
But now I am return'd and that war-thoughts
But on this travail look for greater birth.
But room, fairy, here comes Oberon.
But she perforce withholds the loved boy,
But she would spell him backward. If fair-fac'd,
But she, being mortal, of that boy did die;
But speak, Egeus; is not this the day
But such a one whose wrongs do suit with mine.
But that my nails can reach unto thine eyes.
But that's no matter; let him kill one first.
But that, forsooth, the bouncing Amazon,
But there is no such man; for, brother, men
But they do square, that all their elves for fear
But they shall find awak'd in such a kind
But those as sleep and think not on their sins,
But what of that? Demetrius thinks not so;
But what of this?
But what see what see I? No Thisby do I see.
But what was true, and very full of proof.
But who comes here? I am invisible;
But who dare tell her so? If I should speak,
But who is here? Lysander! on the ground!
But why unkindly didst thou leave me so?
But with good will. To show our simple skill,
But with thy brawls thou hast disturb'd our sport.
But wonder on, till truth make all things plain.
But yet an union in partition,
But yet come not. You are a tame man; go!
But yet you draw not iron, for my heart
But you are more intemperate in your blood
But you must flout my insufficiency?
But you must join in souls to mock me too?
But, as I think- for truly would I speak,
But, as a brother to his sister, show'd
But, as in health, come to my natural taste,
But, being over-full of self-affairs,
But, for my will, my will is, your good will
But, gentle friend, for love and courtesy
But, in this kind, wanting your father's voice,
But, like a sickness, did I loathe this food;
But, my good lord, I wot not by what power-
But, notwithstanding, haste, make no delay;
But, on my honour, she was charg'd with nothing
But, stay. I smell a man of middle earth.
By all the vows that ever men have broke,
By an Athenian eunuch to the harp.'
By day's approach look to be visited.
By fountain clear, or spangled starlight sheen,
By him imprinted, and within his power
By his best arrow, with the golden head,
By moonshine did these lovers think no scorn
By my troth, I am exceeding ill. Hey-ho!
By noting of the lady. I have mark'd
By paved fountain, or by rushy brook,
By some illusion see thou bring her here;
By that which knitteth souls and prospers loves,
By the Athenian garments he had on?
By the Athenian garments he hath on.
By the simplicity of Venus' doves,
By their increase, now knows not which is which.
By these exterior shows? But she is none:
Call Philostrate.
Call'd Robin Goodfellow. Are not you he
Came here in grace of our solemnity.
Can counsel and speak comfort to that grief
Can cunning sin cover itself withal!
Can labour aught in sad invention,
Can lay upon my sin. Yet sinn'd I not
Can you not hate me, as I know you do,
Cannot attain it, why then-hark you hither.
Cannot pursue us. If thou lovest me then,
Castle.
Change slander to remorse. That is some good.
Chanting faint hymns to the cold fruitless moon.
Charm ache with air and agony with words.
Child I for that at frugal nature's frame?
Clap on more sails; pursue; up with your fights;
Claudio alone; tell them that you know that Hero loves me; intend
Close by the ground, to hear our conference.
Cobweb. If I cut my finger, I shall make bold with you. Your
Come from the farthest steep of India,
Come hither, Leonato. What was it you told me of to-day? that
Come hither, Mistress Ford; Mistress Ford, the honest
Come thronging soft and delicate desires,
Come to me at your convenient leisure, and you shall
Come to me soon at night.                               Exit
Come, Hippolyta.
Come, I will have thee; but, by this light, I take thee for pity.
Come, Master Shallow; come, son Slender; in.
Come, follow me, boy,. Come, sir boy, come follow me.
Come, lady, die to live. This wedding day
Come, my Hippolyta; what cheer, my love?
Comes not that blood as modest evidence
Confess'd the vile encounters they have had
Consent to marry with Demetrius,
Consider then, we come but in despite.
Consume away in sighs, waste inwardly.
Contagious fogs; which, falling in the land,
Containing her affection unto Benedick.
Contempt, farewell! and maiden pride, adieu!
Could ever hear by tale or history,
Could not a worm, an adder, do so much?
Counter-gate, which is as hateful to me as the reek of a
Creep into acorn cups and hide them there.
Cricket, to Windsor chimneys shalt thou leap;
Crier Hobgoblin, make the fairy oyes.
Crook-knee'd and dew-lapp'd like Thessalian bulls;
Crowns him with flowers, and makes him all her joy.
Cruel Death of Pyramus and Thisby.'
Cry shame upon her? Could she here deny
Crystal is muddy. O, how ripe in show
Cupid is no longer an archer; his glory shall be ours, for we are
Cupid, all arm'd; a certain aim he took
Curs'd he thy stones for thus deceiving me!
Cut with her golden oars the silver stream
Dance in Duke Theseus' house triumphantly,
Dapples the drowsy east with spots of grey.
Dead, or asleep? I see no blood, no wound.
Death is the fairest cover for her shame
December. But I hope you have no intent to turn husband, have
Decking with liquid pearl the bladed grass,
Demetrius is a worthy gentleman.
Demetrius loves your fair. O happy fair!
Demetrius, I'll avouch it to his head,
Demetrius, and Egeus, go along;
Deny your love, so rich within his soul,
Deserve a sweet look from Demetrius' eye,
Deserve as full, as fortunate a bed
Despite his nice fence and his active practice,
Devoutly dotes, dotes in idolatry,
Did ever keep your counsels, never wrong'd you;
Did he not say my brother was fled?
Did not you tell me I should know the man
Did scare away, or rather did affright;
Did see her, hear her, at that hour last night
Did whisper often very secretly.
Didst not thou lead him through the glimmering night
Disdain and scorn ride sparkling in her eyes,
Disguis'd, like Heme, with huge horns on his head.
Dispatch, I say, and find the forester.    Exit an ATTENDANT
Do challenge thee to trial of a man.
Do it for thy true-love take;
Do it in notes.
Do not live, Hero; do not ope thine eyes;
Do not you meddle; let me deal in this.
Do, as a monster, fly my presence thus.
Dost thou affect her, Claudio?
Doth all the winter-time, at still midnight,
Doth glance from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven;
Draws on apace; four happy days bring in
Duchess and the ladies, that they would shriek; and that were
Due but to one, and crowned with one crest.
Duke had not given him sixpence a day for playing Pyramus, I'll
Duke hath dined. Get your apparel together; good strings to your
Duke say 'Let him roar again, let him roar again.'
Durst thou have look'd upon him being awake,
Each fair instalment, coat, and sev'ral crest,
Each under each. A cry more tuneable
Effect it with some care, that he may prove
Egeus, I will overbear your will;
Either death or you I'll find immediately.              Exit
Emptying our bosoms of their counsel sweet,
Enrings the barky fingers of the elm.
Enter FORD, PAGE, SHALLOW, CAIUS, and SIR HUGH EVANS
Enter, [masked,] Don Pedro, Claudio, Benedick, and Balthasar.
Ercles' vein, a tyrant's vein: a lover is more condoling.
Ere I will yield my virgin patent up
Ere the leviathan can swim a league.
Even till the eastern gate, all fiery red,
Even to my wish. I have a letter from her
Extremely stretch'd and conn'd with cruel pain,
FALSTAFF. Of what quality was your love, then?
FALSTAFF. Would it apply well to the vehemency of your
FENTON]  A kind heart he hath; a woman would run through
Fair Helena in fancy following me.
Fair Helena, who more engilds the night
Fairies use flow'rs for their charactery.
Fairies, be gone, and be all ways away.       Exeunt FAIRIES
Fall in the fresh lap of the crimson rose;
Falstaff's a knave, a cuckoldly knave; here are his horns,
Falstaff's and our meeting, they will at once display to the
Falstaff, and drink canary with him.               Exit HOST
Fann'd with the eastern wind, turns to a crow
Farewell, sweet playfellow; pray thou for us,
Farewell, thou lob of spirits; I'll be gone.
Fashion'd to Beatrice.
Fear you not my part of the dialogue.
Fed in heart, whose flames aspire,
Feed him with apricocks and dewberries,
Fenton,
Fenton. Well, I must of another errand to Sir John Falstaff
Fetch me that flow'r, the herb I showed thee once.
Fetch me this herb, and be thou here again
Fetter strong madness in a silken thread,
Fie on lust and luxury!
Fie on sinful fantasy!
Fie, fie! you counterfeit, you puppet you!
Finely attired in a robe of white.
Flying between the cold moon and the earth
Following- her womb then rich with my young squire-
For I am sick when I do look on thee.
For I have only been silent so long,
For I upon this bank will rest my head.
For Oberon is passing fell and wrath,
For Pyramus therein doth kill himself.
For aye austerity and single life.
For aye to be shady cloister mew'd,
For beasts that meet me run away for fear;
For briers and thorns at their apparel snatch;
For debt that bankrupt sleep doth sorrow owe;
For disobedience to your father's will,
For ere Demetrius look'd on Hermia's eyne,
For ever the society of men.
For everlasting bond of fellowship-
For fear lest day should look their shames upon;
For he, to-night, shall lie with Mistress Ford.       Exeunt
For henceforth of poor Claudio.
For here's a paper written in his hand,
For if but once thou show me thy grey light,
For in the temple, by and by, with us
For lack of tread, are undistinguishable.
For look where Beatrice like a lapwing runs
For lying so, Hermia, I do not lie.
For my part, I am so attir'd in wonder,
For never anything can be amiss
For night's swift dragons cut the clouds full fast;
For now our observation is perform'd,
For others say thou dost deserve, and I
For parting my fair Pyramus and me!
For parting us- O, is all forgot?
For shape, for bearing, argument, and valour,
For she hath blessed and attractive eyes.
For she his hairy temples then had rounded
For thee I'll lock up all the gates of love,
For there was never yet philosopher
For they must all be mask'd and vizarded-
For thou, I fear, hast given me cause to curse.
For thy part, Claudio, I did think to have beaten thee; but in
For to strange sores strangely they strain the cure.
For you love Hermia. This you know I know;
For you, fair Hermia, look you arm yourself
For you, in my respect, are all the world.
For, as a surfeit of the sweetest things
For, by thy gracious golden, glittering gleams,
For, did I think thou wouldst not quickly die,
For, if I should as lion come in strife
For, meeting her of late behind the wood,
Forbid the sun to enter--like favourites,
Ford and Mistress Page, have I encompass'd you? Go to;
Ford's but his buck-basket, his cudgel, and twenty pounds
Ford, that search'd a hollow walnut for his wife's leman.'
Ford.
Forsook his scene and ent'red in a brake;
Four nights will quickly dream away the time;
French-crown-colour beard, your perfect yellow.
Frenchman to-morrow; or in the shape of two countries at once, as
Friendship is constant in all other things
From Athens is her house remote seven leagues-
From Claudio, and the Prince; but what's your will?
From Perigouna, whom he ravished?
From lovers' food till morrow deep midnight.
From monster's view, and all things shall be peace.
From off the head of this Athenian swain,
From our debate, from our dissension;
From sleeping Hermia? I'll believe as soon
From these that my poor company detest.
Full often hath she gossip'd by my side;
Galen, and he is a knave besides-a cowardly knave as you
Garter.
Gently entwist; the female ivy so
Get you home, boy. Come, we stay too long.            Exeunt
Give fire; she is my prize, or ocean whelm them all!    Exit
Give her the right you should have giv'n her cousin,
Give me this maid your daughter?
Give my sweet Nan this ring. There's for thy pains.
Give not this rotten orange to your friend.
Glance at my credit with Hippolyta,
Gloucestershire.
Go anticly, show outward hideousness,
Go, bring them in; and take your places, ladies.
Go, take up these clothes here, quickly; where's the
God is to be worshipp'd; all men are not alike, alas, good
God keep your worship! I wish your worship well. God restore you
God shield us!- a lion among ladies is a most dreadful thing; for
God?
Goes foremost in report through Italy.
Good husband, let us every one go home,
Good troth, you do me wrong, good sooth, you do,
Good-morrow, friends. Saint Valentine is past;
Grace hath made the match, and all grace say Amen to it!
Grace ne'er a brother like you? Your father got excellent
Grace pardon me. I was born to speak all mirth and no matter.
Grows, lives, and dies, in single blessedness.
Had been incorporate. So we grew together,
Half sleep, half waking; but as yet, I swear,
Hang her an epitaph upon her tomb,
Hang mournful epitaphs, and do all rites
Hang thou there upon the tomb,
Happy is Hermia, wheresoe'er she lies,
Hast thou the flower there? Welcome, wanderer.
Hate me! wherefore? O me! what news, my love?
Hath a great scene. The image of the jest
Hath drops too few to wash her clean again,
Hath every pelting river made so proud
Hath rotted ere his youth attain'd a beard;
Have I liv'd to be carried in a basket, like a barrow of
Have been deceived; for they swore you did.
Have left their places vacant, in their rooms
Have vanquish'd the resistance of her youth
Have with our needles created both one flower,
Have you conspir'd, have you with these contriv'd,
Have you no modesty, no maiden shame,
Have you writ down that they are none?
He bravely broach'd his boiling bloody breast;
He doth object I am too great of birth;
He followed you; for love I followed him;
He hail'd down oaths that he was only mine;
He hath twice or thrice cut Cupid's bowstring, and the little
He murder cries, and help from Athens calls.
He shows me where the bachelors sit, and there live we as merry
He will not know what all but he do know.
He'll tell me all his purpose. Sure, he'll come.
Heaven give you many, many merry days!
Heaven prosper our sport! No man means evil but the
Heaven prosper the right! What weapons is he?
Heavens shield Lysander, if they mean a fray!
Helen, I love thee, by my life I do;
Hence, get thee gone, and follow me no more.
Henceforth be never numb'red among men!
Her blush is guiltiness, not modesty.
Her brother's noontide with th' Antipodes.
Her dotage now I do begin to pity;
Her father hath commanded her to slip
Her father means she shall be all in white;
Her father will be angry.
Her height, forsooth, she hath prevail'd with him.
Her mother, even strong against that match
Her silver visage in the wat'ry glass,
Hercules have turn'd spit, yea, and have cleft his club to make
Here comes Beatrice. By this day, she's a fair lady! I do spy
Here comes my messenger. How now, mad spirit!
Here comes one.
Here comes the Prince and Claudio.
Here is a letter will say somewhat. Good hearts, what ado
Here is my bed; sleep give thee all his rest!
Here she comes.
Here stand a pair of honourable men--
Here will I rest me till the break of day.
Here, therefore, for a while I will remain.
Hero itself can blot out Hero's virtue.
Hero! why, Hero! Uncle! Signior Benedick! Friar!
Hero, and kill Leonato. Look you for any other issue?
Hero.
Hero: wooing, wedding, and repenting is as a Scotch jig, a
Hie therefore, Robin, overcast the night;
Hippolyta, I woo'd thee with my sword,
Hir'd to it by your brother.
His May of youth and bloom of lustihood.
His dagger drew, and died. For all the rest,
His mother was a vot'ress of my order;
Hop in his walks and gambol in his eyes;
How came her eyes so bright? Not with salt tears;
How can these things in me seem scorn to you,
How chance the roses there do fade so fast?
How comes this gentle concord in the world
How easy is a bush suppos'd a bear?
How her acquaintance grew with this lewd fellow.
How innocent she died; and if your love
How low am I, thou painted maypole? Speak.
How low am I? I am not yet so low
How much an ill word may empoison liking.
How now, Master Brook. Master Brook, the matter will
How now, Master Fenton!
How now, Sir Hugh, no school to-day?
How shall we find the concord of this discord?
How they might hurt their enemies, if they durst;
How wise, how noble, young, how rarely featur'd,
However they have writ the style of gods
I a woodman, ha? Speak I like Heme the Hunter? Why,
I am a plain-dealing villain. I am trusted with a muzzle and
I am a right maid for my cowardice;
I am a spirit of no common rate;
I am as fair now as I was erewhile.
I am belov'd of beauteous Hermia.
I am dejected; I am not able to answer the Welsh flannel;
I am glad of it; but if you have a friend here, convey,
I am not guilty of Lysander's blood;
I am sick in displeasure to him, and whatsoever comes athwart his
I am sorry for thy much misgovernment.
I am sorry you must hear. Upon my honour,
I am subdued. Would the cook were o' my mind! Shall we go prove
I am that merry wanderer of the night.
I am to entreat you, request you, and desire you, to con them by
I am your husband if you like of me.
I am your spaniel; and, Demetrius,
I am yours for the walk; and especially when I walk away.
I be serv'd such another trick, I'll have my brains ta'en out
I beg the ancient privilege of Athens:
I beg the law, the law upon his head.
I came with Hermia hither. Our intent
I can no further crawl, no further go;
I cannot truly say how I came here,
I come to speak with her, indeed.
I could drive her then from the ward of her purity,
I did upbraid her and fall out with her.
I do but beg a little changeling boy
I do embrace your offer; and dispose
I do estate unto Demetrius.
I do invite you to-morrow morning to my house to breakfast;
I doubt we should have been too young for them.
I evermore did love you, Hermia,
I fear my Thisby's promise is forgot!
I fear thee not.
I fear we shall out-sleep the coming morn,
I followed fast, but faster he did fly,
I give away myself for you and dote upon the exchange.
I had rather than a thousand pound he were out of the
I have a widow aunt, a dowager
I have cause, and smile at no man's jests; eat when I have
I have forsworn his bed and company.
I have had a dream, past the wit of man to say what dream it was.
I have no gift at all in shrewishness;
I have some private schooling for you both.
I have this twelvemonth been her bedfellow
I jest to Oberon, and make him smile
I know a bank where the wild thyme blows,
I know also life is a shuttle. I am in haste; go along with
I know her spirits are as coy and wild
I know my price, I am worth no worse a place.
I know not by what power I am made bold,
I know not what to say.
I know we shall have revelling to-night.
I know you two are rival enemies;
I led them on in this distracted fear,
I look'd upon her with a soldier's eye,
I may avoid him. Which of these is he?
I mean in singing; but in loving Leander the good swimmer,
I mean that my heart unto yours is knit,
I might have said, 'No part of it is mine;
I must advance the colours of my love,
I must employ you in some business
I must go seek some dewdrops here,
I must very much lay open mine own imperfection; but,
I never prosper'd since I forswore myself at primero. Well,
I never tempted her with word too large,
I pray thee sing, and let me woo no more.
I rather will suspect the sun with cold
I read as much as from the rattling tongue
I saw the Duchess of Milan's gown that they praise so.
I say thou hast belied mine innocent child;
I scorn you not; it seems that you scorn me.
I seek to heal it only by his wealth.
I shall procure-a you de good guest, de earl, de knight, de
I should love thee but as a property.
I speak not like a dotard nor a fool,
I stand dishonour'd that have gone about
I swear by that which I will lose for thee
I swear to thee by Cupid's strongest bow,
I thank thee, Moon, for shining now so bright;
I thank you princes for my daughter's death.
I then did ask of her her changeling child;
I thought you lord of more true gentleness.
I told him of your stealth unto this wood.
I told you, sir, my daughter is dispos'd of.
I toward Arragon.
I trust to take of truest Thisby sight.
I was duller than a great thaw; huddling jest upon jest with such
I was- there is no man can tell what. Methought I was, and
I will about it; better three hours too soon than a minute
I will acquaint my daughter withal, that she may be the better
I will assume thy part in some disguise
I will bring the doctor about by the fields. Will it do well?
I will bring thee where Mistress Anne Page is, at a a
I will die in it at the stake.
I will go tell him of fair Hermia's flight;
I will in the interim undertake one of Hercules' labours, which
I will not be your friend, nor enemy;
I with the Morning's love have oft made sport;
I wonder of their being here together.
I would bend under any heavy weight
I would have salv'd it with a longer treatise.
I would he had boarded me.
I'll be revenged as I may.
I'll charm his eyes against she do appear.
I'll find Demetrius, and revenge this spite.        [Sleeps]
I'll follow thee, and make a heaven of hell,
I'll give thee fairies to attend on thee;
I'll in.
I'll make her render up her page to me.
I'll meet thee, Pyramus, at Ninny's tomb.
I'll prove it on his body if he dare,
I'll sauce them; they have had my house a week at
I'll show thee some attires, and have thy counsel
I'll show you here at large. Hark, good mine host:
I'll speak in a monstrous little voice: 'Thisne, Thisne!'
I'll tell you largely of fair Hero's death.
I'll to my queen, and beg her Indian boy;
I'll to the Doctor; he hath my good will,
I'll watch Titania when she is asleep,
I'll whip thee with a rod. He is defil'd
I'll wink and couch; no man their works must eye.
I, and I am sunburnt. I may sit in a corner and cry 'Heigh-ho for
If Hermia meant to say Lysander lied!
If I have thanks, it is a dear expense.
If I know more of any man alive
If I refuse to wed Demetrius.
If black, why, Nature, drawing of an antic,
If e'er I lov'd her, all that love is gone.
If ever I did dream of such a matter,
If ever I thy face by daylight see;
If for his tender here I make some stay.         [Lies down]
If half thy outward graces had been plac'd
If he be chaste, the flame will back descend,
If it should give your age such cause of fear.
If low, an agate very vilely cut;
If not with vantage, as Demetrius';
If not, shun me, and I will spare your haunts.
If opportunity and humblest suit
If silent, why, a block moved with none.
If so, my eyes are oft'ner wash'd than hers.
If speaking, why, a vane blown with all winds;
If such a one will smile and stroke his beard,
If this sweet lady lie not guiltless here
If thou dost love fair Hero, cherish it,
If thou dost love, my kindness shall incite thee
If thou hast slain Lysander in his sleep,
If thou kill'st me, boy, thou shalt kill a man.
If you have any pity, grace, or manners,
If you were civil and knew courtesy,
If you were men, as men you are in show,
If you will patiently dance in our round,
Immediately provided in that case.
Immediately to marry; she hath consented.
Impatient answers from my gentle tongue?
Impose me to what penance your invention
In Crete, in Sparta, nor in Thessaly.
In Hermia's love I yield you up my part;
In a most hideous and dreadful manner.
In angel whiteness beat away those blushes,
In anything that I do know by her.
In deep of night to walk by this Herne's oak.
In earnest, shall I say?
In em'rald tufts, flow'rs purple, blue and white;
In every lineament, branch, shape, and form.
In faith, my hand meant nothing to my sword.
In forty minutes.                                  Exit PUCK
In glory of my kinsman Hercules.
In her behalf that scorns your services.
In him that was of late an heretic,
In least speak most to my capacity.
In love, the heavens themselves do guide the state;
In maiden meditation, fancy-free.
In nightly revels and new jollity.                    Exeunt
In number more than ever women spoke,
In personal suit to make me his lieutenant,
In practice let us put it presently.                 Exeunt.
In shape profane.
In some reclusive and religious life,
In state as wholesome as in state 'tis fit,
In such a presence here to plead my thoughts;
In such a righteous fashion as I do,
In such disdainful manner me to woo.
In that same place thou hast appointed me,
In the meantime I will draw a bill of properties, such as our
In the rare semblance that I lov'd it first.
In the state of honourable marriage;
In the true course of all the question.
In their nativity all truth appears.
In their so sacred paths he dares to tread
In thy eye that shall appear
In very likeness of a roasted crab,
In which, good friar, I shall desire your help.
Injurious Hermia! most ungrateful maid!
Intended for great Theseus' nuptial day.
Into a pit of ink, that the wide sea
Into his study of imagination,
Into the eye and prospect of his soul
Into the hands of one that loves you not;
Into this place, 'twere pity on my life.
Is all of her. Say that thou overheard'st us;
Is all the counsel that we two have shar'd,
Is couched in the woodbine coverture.
Is he dead, my Ethiopian? Is he dead, my Francisco? Ha,
Is little Cupid's crafty arrow made,
Is only Helena. To her, my lord,
Is sick in love with Beatrice. Of this matter
Is that she will not add to her damnation
Is that vile name to perish on my sword!
Is this face Hero's? Are our eyes our own?
Is this the Prince, Is this the Prince's brother?
Is true as steel. Leave you your power to draw,
Is very much unto the Prince and Claudio,
Is't not enough, is't not enough, young man,
Is, as in mockery, set. The spring, the summer,
It cannot be but thou hast murd'red him;
It comprehends some bringer of that joy;
It fell upon a little western flower,
It hath struck ten o'clock.
It is not for you. I have heard it over,
It is not friendly, 'tis not maidenly;
It is not night when I do see your face,
It is proved my Lady Hero hath been falsely accus'd, the Prince
It is the flesh of a corrupted heart.
It pays the hearing double recompense.
It seems her affections have their full bent. Love me? Why, it
It stands as an edict in destiny.
It were a better death than die with mocks,
John, and all the gallants of the town are come to fetch you to
John] Let me bid you welcome, my lord. Being reconciled to the
Joy, gentle friends, joy and fresh days of love
Judge when you hear. But, soft, what nymphs are these?
Jupiter, a swan, for the love of Leda. O omnipotent love!
Keep word, Lysander; we must starve our sight
Kindled with unchaste desire,
Knacks, trifles, nosegays, sweetmeats- messengers
Knight of his train, to trace the forests wild;
Know of your youth, examine well your blood,
Knowing I know thy love to Theseus?
Knowing my mind, you wrong me, Master Fenton.
Lady Hero's chamber window.
Lamenting some enforced chastity.
Lay breath so bitter on your bitter foe.
Leonato's?
Leonato.
Lest, to thy peril, thou aby it dear.
Let Lion, Moonshine, Wall, and lovers twain,
Let all my sins lack mercy! O my father,
Let every eye negotiate for itself
Let her alone; speak not of Helena;
Let her awhile be secretly kept in,
Let her not hurt me. I was never curst;
Let her not strike me. You perhaps may think,
Let me come to her.
Let me have Hermia's; do you marry him.
Let me stop this way first.  [Locking the door]  So, now
Let the supposed fairies pinch him sound,
Let them from forth a sawpit rush at once
Let this be so, and doubt not but success
Lie further off yet; do not lie so near.
Lie further off, in human modesty;
Like far-off mountains turned into clouds.
Like horse, hound, hog, bear, fire, at every turn.
Like sapphire, pearl, and rich embroidery,
Like tears that did their own disgrace bewail.
Like to Lysander sometime frame thy tongue,
Like to a double cherry, seeming parted,
Like to a step-dame or a dowager,
Like to the Garter's compass, in a ring;
Like urchins, ouphes, and fairies, green and white,
Long withering out a young man's revenue.
Look when I vow, I weep; and vows so born,
Look where thy love comes; yonder is thy dear.
Look! Don Pedro is returned to seek you.
Look, what will serve is fit. 'Tis once, thou lovest,
Looks handsome in three hundred pounds a year!
Love and languish for his sake.
Love can transpose to form and dignity.
Love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind;
Love takes the meaning in love's conference.
Love's stories, written in Love's richest book.
Love, therefore, and tongue-tied simplicity
Lovers and madmen have such seething brains,
Lovers, to bed; 'tis almost fairy time.
Lull'd in these flowers with dances and delight;
Lust is but a bloody fire,
Lysander and myself will fly this place.
Lysander! What, remov'd? Lysander! lord!
Lysander, if you live, good sir, awake.
Lysander, look how I do quake with fear.
Made a foul blot; if tall, a lance ill-headed;
Made love to Nedar's daughter, Helena,
Made me compare with Hermia's sphery eyne?
Made mine eyes water; but more merry tears
Made promise to the doctor. Now thus it rests:
Made proud by princes, that advance their pride
Made senseless things begin to do them wrong,
Maintain a mourning ostentation,
Maintain'd the change of words with any creature,
Make choice of which your Highness will see first.
Make mouths upon me when I turn my back,
Make periods in the midst of sentences,
Make those that do offend you suffer too.
Makes speed to catch the tiger- bootless speed,
Making it momentary as a sound,
Man is but an ass if he go about to expound this dream. Methought
Marking th' embarked traders on the flood;
Master Brook, shalt know him for knave and cuckold.
Master Brook; and, Master Brook, he hath enjoyed nothing of
Master Fenton.' This is my doing.
Master Ford, awake; awake, Master Ford. There's a hole
Master Guest, and Master Page, and eke Cavaleiro Slender,
Master Page, we have some salt of our youth in us; we are
Master Page?
Masters, I charge you in the Prince's name accuse these men.
May all to Athens back again repair,
May be the lady. Thou shalt know the man
May counterpoise this rich and precious gift?
May now, perchance, both quake and tremble here,
May stand with ours, this day to be conjoin'd
May through the centre creep and so displease
Mead.
Meantime let wonder seem familiar,
Measure his woe the length and breadth of mine,
Melodious birds sing madrigals-
Melodious birds sings madrigals;
Melted as the snow, seems to me now
Mercy on me! I have a great dispositions to cry.     [Sings]
Merry and tragical! tedious and brief!
Messina.
Met we on hill, in dale, forest, or mead,
Methinks you prescribe to yourself very preposterously.
Methought I was enamour'd of an ass.
Methought a serpent eat my heart away,
Mine ear is much enamoured of thy note;
Mine ear, I thank it, brought me to thy sound.
Mine innocent child?
Mine own, and not mine own.
Mislead night-wanderers, laughing at their harm?
Misprizing what they look on; and her wit
Mistress Anne, and I would not break with her for more
Mistress Ford, and requests your company.
Mistress Ford. Now shall I sin in my wish; I would thy
Mistress Ford. You dissembling knight!
Mistress Page at the door, sweating and blowing and looking
Mistress Page; I pray you pardon me; pray heartly,
Mistress, do I?
Money buys lands, and wives are sold by fate.
More fertile-fresh than all the field to see;
More fond on her than she upon her love.
More moving, delicate, and full of life,
More than cool reason ever comprehends.
More tuneable than lark to shepherd's ear,
More witnesseth than fancy's images,
Most brisky juvenal, and eke most lovely Jew,
Much like to you, for you have just his bleat.
Must my sweet Nan present the Fairy Queen-
Mustardseed.
Mustardseed?
My cherry lips have often kiss'd thy stones,
My daughter will I question how she loves you,
My ear should catch your voice, my eye your eye,
My fortunes every way as fairly rank'd,
My gentle Puck, come hither. Thou rememb'rest
My griefs cry louder than advertisement.
My heart is sorry for your daughter's death;
My heart to her but as guest-wise sojourn'd,
My legs are longer though, to run away.                 Exit
My legs can keep no pace with my desires.
My love shall hear the music of my hounds.
My love, my life, my soul, fair Helena!
My mind did lose it. But, Demetrius, come;
My reverence, calling, nor divinity,
My riots past, my wild societies;
My soul consents not to give sovereignty.
My soul doth tell me Hero is belied;
My talk to thee must be how Benedick
My tongue should catch your tongue's sweet melody.
Myself the Man i' th' Moon do seem to be.
Myself would on the rearward of reproaches
Myself, my brother, and this grieved Count
Nan Page my daughter, and my little son,
Nay, as I am a gentleman, I will.
Nay, go not back.
Nay, never lay thy hand upon thy sword;
Near to her close and consecrated bower,
Neglect me, lose me; only give me leave,
Neighing in likeness of a filly foal;
Never excuse; for when the players are all dead there need none
Never so little show of love to her,
New-bent in heaven, shall behold the night
No glory lives behind the back of such.
No night is now with hymn or carol blest;
No touch of bashfulness? What! Will you tear
No, Leonato,
No, no! 'Tis all men's office to speak patience
No, no, I am as ugly as a bear,
No, though be thought his accusation true.
No, truly, Ursula, she is too disdainful.
No, uncle, I'll none. Adam's sons are my brethren, and truly I
No? Then I well perceive you are not nigh.
Nobody marks you.
Nod to him, elves, and do him courtesies.
None, I think, an it be the right husband and the right wife.
Nor age so eat up my invention,
Nor doth this wood lack worlds of company,
Nor fortune made such havoc of my means,
Nor hath Love's mind of any judgment taste;
Nor how it may concern my modesty
Nor is he dead, for aught that I can tell.
Nor knew not what she did when she spoke to me;
Nor let no comforter delight mine ear
Nor longer stay in your curst company.
Nor my bad life reft me so much of friends,
Nor take no shape nor project of affection,
Not Hermia but Helena I love:
Not paying me a welcome. Trust me, sweet,
Not sorting with a nuptial ceremony.
Not to be spoke of;
Not to knit my soul to an approved wanton.
Note notes, forsooth, and nothing!                  [Music.]
Now I do wish it, love it, long for it,
Now I perceive that she hath made compare
Now I perceive they have conjoin'd all three
Now begin;
Now follow, if thou dar'st, to try whose right,
Now much beshrew my manners and my pride,
Now thou and I are new in amity,
Now! whence come you?
Now, could I come to her with any detection in my hand,
Now, go thy way. Faintness constraineth me
Now, good Sir John, how like you Windsor wives?
Now, if you are a maid, answer to this.
Now, music, sound, and sing your solemn hymn.
Now, my Titania; wake you, my sweet queen.
Now, sir,
Nym, sir, that beguil'd him of a chain, had the chain or no.
O night, O night, alack, alack, alack,
O night, which ever art when day is not!
O wicked wall, through whom I see no bliss,
O, how I love thee! how I dote on thee!         [They sleep]
O, how mine eyes do loathe his visage now!
O, in a tomb where never scandal slept,
O, once tell true; tell true, even for my sake!
O, one too much by thee! Why had I one?
O, teach me how you look, and with what art
O, that a lady of one man refus'd
O, then, what graces in my love do dwell,
O, what a world of vile ill-favour'd faults
O, what authority and show of truth
Of Herne the Hunter let us not forget.
Of Learning, late deceas'd in beggary.'
Of all be hated, but the most of me!
Of colour like the red rose on triumphant brier,
Of disobedience, or unduteous title,
Of every hearer; for it so falls out
Of great revenue, and she hath no child-
Of hounds and echo in conjunction.
Of maiden's patience. Hast thou slain him, then?
Of my consent that she should be your wife.
Of our solemnities.
Of prouder stuff than that of Beatrice.
Of saucy and audacious eloquence.
Of something nearly that concerns yourselves.
Of strong prevailment in unhardened youth;
Of such contents as you will wonder at;
Of the false sweet bait that we lay for it.
Of thine or mine, is most in Helena.
Of this discourse we more will hear anon.
Of this their purpose hither to this wood;
Of thy misprision must perforce ensue
Off-capp'd to him; and, by the faith of man,
On meddling monkey, or on busy ape,
On the first view, to say, to swear, I love thee.
One Hero died defil'd; but I do live,
One heart, one bed, two bosoms, and one troth.
One sees more devils than vast hell can hold;
One that compos'd your beauties; yea, and one
Only this commendation I can afford her, that were she other
Opening on Neptune with fair blessed beams,
Or I will shake thee from me like a serpent.
Or as the heresies that men do leave
Or else committ'st thy knaveries wilfully.
Or else the law of Athens yields you up-
Or else to wed Demetrius, as he would,
Or else you are that shrewd and knavish sprite
Or if thou wilt hold longer argument,
Or in the beached margent of the sea,
Or in the night, imagining some fear,
Or on Diana's altar to protest
Or russet-pated choughs, many in sort,
Or to her death, according to our law
Or, if thou follow me, do not believe
Or, rather, do I not in plainest truth
Otherwise 'tis light, and not heavy. Ask my Lady Beatrice else.
Our Queen and all her elves come here anon.
Our dance of custom round about the oak
Our purpos'd hunting shall be set aside.
Our radiant Queen hates sluts and sluttery.
Our sex, as well as I, may chide you for it,
Our sport shall be to take what they mistake;
Our talk must only be of Benedick.
Our true intent is. All for your delight
Out at your window betwixt twelve and one?
Out of all eyes, tongues, minds, and injuries.
Out of myself, press me to death with wit!
Out of this silence yet I pick'd a welcome;
Out, loathed med'cine! O hated potion, hence!
Out, out! I'll conjure you, I'll fortune-tell you.
Page and my cousin Slender, and this day we shall have
Page, and she's a great lubberly boy. If it had not been i'
Page.
Page. Said I well?
Pale in her anger, washes all the air,
Pard, or boar with bristled hair,
Park; we two must go together.
Parson.
Patch grief with proverbs, make misfortune drunk
Peaseblossom! Cobweb! Moth! and Mustardseed!
Pedro. He hath borne himself beyond the promise of his age, doing
Peradventure, to make it the more gracious, I shall sing it at
Perforce, against all checks, rebukes, and manners,
Perhaps is but prolong'd. Have patience and endure.
Physic?
Pierc'd through the heart with your stern cruelty;
Pinch him and burn him and turn him about,
Pinch him for his villainy;
Pinch him, fairies, mutually;
Pinch them, arms, legs, backs, shoulders, sides, and shins.
Playing on pipes of corn, and versing love
Pluck me out all the linen.
Poins; he is of too high a region, he knows too much. No,
Possess the people in Messina here
Potent at court; he, none but he, shall have her,
Praising her when I am dumb.
Precious, celestial? Wherefore speaks he this
Presenteth Moonshine; for, if you will know,
Prince your brother, I owe you all duty.
Prince your brother; spare not to tell him that he hath wronged
Prince's fool! Ha! it may be I go under that title because I am
Prince's officer coxcomb. Come, bind them.--Thou naughty varlet!
Prince's subjects.
Proposing with the Prince and Claudio.
Prove you that any man with me convers'd
Pursue her; and for this intelligence
Pursuing that that flies, and flying what pursues.'
Pyramus but Bottom the weaver. This will put them out of fear.
Pyramus; I hope she will be brief.
QUINCE, BOTTOM, FLUTE, SNOUT, STARVELING, AND SNUG
Quench'd in the chaste beams of the wat'ry moon;
Quickly tell me so mush.
Quickly, to him, and excuse his throwing into the water,
Quite over-canopied with luscious woodbine,
Raise up the organs of her fantasy
Reason becomes the marshal to my will,
Receiv'd, and did deliver to our age,
Record it with your high and worthy deeds.
Refuse me, hate me, torture me to death!
Remember, Jove, thou wast a bull for thy Europa; love set on thy
Repentance and with his bad legs falls into the cinque-pace
Rising and cawing at the gun's report,
Run when you will; the story shall be chang'd:
SIMPLE.. Why, sir, they were nothing but about Mistress
Satisfy me once more; once more search with me.
Save in the office and affairs of love.
Save that, in love unto Demetrius,
Save this of hers, fram'd by thy villany!
Saying I lik'd her ere I went to wars.
Scambling, outfacing, fashion-monging boys,
Scorn and derision never come in tears.
Scurvy jack-dog priest! By gar, me vill cut his ears.
Search Windsor castle, elves, within and out;
See me no more whether he be dead or no.                Exit
See you these, husband? Do not these fair yokes
Seeking sweet favours for this hateful fool,
Seem to break loose- take on as you would follow,
Seem'd Athens as a paradise to me.
Seem'd all one mutual cry. I never heard
Sees Helen's beauty in a brow of Egypt.
Send Quickly to Sir John to know his mind.
Sever themselves and madly sweep the sky,
Shall Master Slender steal my Nan away,
Shall be lamented, pitied, and excus'd
Shall come apparell'd in more precious habit,
Shall fact to face be brought to Margaret,
Shall seem a dream and fruitless vision;
Shallow, and another gentleman, from Frogmore, over the
She cannot be so much without true judgment
She does so take on with her men; they mistook their
She dying, as it must be so maintain'd,
She is so self-endeared.
She knew his love, lest she'll make sport at it.
She knows the heat of a luxurious bed;
She never had so sweet a changeling;
She seemingly obedient likewise hath
She shall go with him; her mother hath intended
She shall pursue it with the soul of love.
She was a vixen when she went to school;
She would mock me into air; O, she would laugh me
She would swear the gentleman should be her sister;
She's but the sign and semblance of her honour.
Should of another therefore be abus'd!                  Exit
Should with your body.
Show me thy chink, to blink through with mine eyne.
Sickness is catching; O, were favour so,
Signior Leonato's door; for the wedding being there tomorrow,
Signior Leonato, truth it is, good signior,
Since lion vile hath here deflower'd my dear;
Since many a wooer doth commence his suit
Since night you lov'd me; yet since night you left me.
Since once I sat upon a promontory,
Since therein she doth evitate and shun
Sir Hugh. Keep a gamester from the dice, and a good student
Sir John and all.
Sir John. Unless you go out disguis'd.
Sir boy, I'll whip you from your foining fence!
Sir?
Skim milk, and sometimes labour in the quern,
Sleep she as sound as careless infancy;
Slender?
Slow in pursuit, but match'd in mouth like bells,
Smother her spirits up.
So I, admiring of his qualities.
So I, being young, till now ripe not to reason;
So angle we for Beatrice, who even now
So at his sight away his fellows fly;
So doth the woodbine the sweet honeysuckle
So far be distant; and good night, sweet friend.
So far forth as herself might be her chooser,
So flew'd, so sanded; and their heads are hung
So full of frost, of storm, and cloudiness?
So hath thy breath, my dearest Thisby dear.
So he dissolv'd, and show'rs of oaths did melt.
So hung upon with love, so fortunate,
So is mine eye enthralled to thy shape;
So musical a discord, such sweet thunder.
So near the cradle of the Fairy Queen?
So quick bright things come to confusion.
So rare a gentleman as Signior Benedick.
So should a murderer look- so dead, so grim.
So sorrow's heaviness doth heavier grow
So that but one heart we can make of it;
So the boy Love is perjur'd everywhere;
So then two bosoms and a single troth.
So thou, my surfeit and my heresy,
So turns she every man the wrong side out
So will you say when you have seen the Sequel.
So, with two seeming bodies, but one heart;
Some Cupid kills with arrows, some with traps.
Some of us would lie low.
Some sleeves, some hats, from yielders all things catch.
Some to kill cankers in the musk-rose buds;
Some true love turn'd, and not a false turn'd true.
Some war with rere-mice for their leathern wings,
Somebody call my wife. Youth in a basket! O you panderly
Sometime a horse I'll be, sometime a hound,
Sometime a keeper here in Windsor Forest,
Sometime for three-foot stool mistaketh me;
Speak! In some bush? Where dost thou hide thy head?
Speak, breathe, discuss; brief, short, quick, snap.
Speak, of all loves! I swoon almost with fear.
Speaking my fancy: Signior Benedick,
Stand I condemn'd for pride and scorn so much?
Stand forth, Demetrius. My noble lord,
Stand forth, Lysander. And, my gracious Duke,
Star. I would not marry her though she were endowed with all that
Steal forth thy father's house to-morrow night;
Steal me awhile from mine own company.              [Sleeps]
Stir up the Athenian youth to merriments;
Stood now within the pretty flowerets' eyes,
Straight marry her. To this her mother's plot
Strew good luck, ouphes, on every sacred room,
Strike at thy life. Griev'd I, I had but one?
Such gallant chiding, for, besides the groves,
Such separation as may well be said
Such shaping fantasies, that apprehend
Such tricks hath strong imagination
Sundays.
Sweet Beatrice, wouldst thou come when I call'd thee?
Sweet love?
Swift as a shadow, short as any dream,
Swifter than arrow from the Tartar's bow.               Exit
Take heed the Queen come not within his sight;
Take not her part; for if thou dost intend
Take thou some of it, and seek through this grove:
Takes it in might, not merit.
Talk with a ruffian at her chamber window,
Taming my wild heart to thy loving hand.
Tearing the Thracian singer in their rage.'
Tell you I do not nor I cannot love you?
Telling the bushes that thou look'st for wars,
Th' expressure that it bears, green let it be,
Th' idea of her life shall sweetly creep
Th' offence is holy that she hath committed;
Than I can lay it down in likelihood.
Than Venus, or those pamp'red animals
Than all yon fiery oes and eyes of light.
Than common sleep of all these five the sense.
Than stamps in gold, or sums in sealed bags;
Than that which maiden modesty doth warrant,
Than that which withering on the virgin thorn
Than thee with wantonness. Now doth thy honour stand,
Than thine, thou serpent, never adder stung.
Than this for whom we rend'red up this woe.          Exeunt.
Than to be used as you use your dog?
Than to drive liking to the name of love;
Than when she liv'd indeed. Then shall he mourn
Thanks to you all, and leave us. Fare you well.
Thanks, courteous wall. Jove shield thee well for this!
That Benedick loves Beatrice so entirely?
That Falstaff at that oak shall meet with us,
That Hermia should give answer of her choice?
That I am forc'd to lay my reverence by
That I am that same wall; the truth is so;
That I can match her.
That I did never, no, nor never can,
That I do hate thee and love Helena.
That I have 'nointed an Athenian's eyes;
That I may back to Athens by daylight,
That I myself was to myself not mine,
That I, one Snout by name, present a wall;
That Slender, though well landed, is an idiot;
That appertain unto a burial.
That could endure the toothache patiently,
That dare as well answer a man indeed
That draws a sword on thee.
That fallen am I in dark uneven way,
That frights the maidens of the villagery,
That had in it a crannied hole or chink,
That hatred is so far from jealousy
That he awaking when the other do
That he hath turn'd a heaven unto a hell!
That he shall likewise shuffle her away
That he'll enjoin me to.
That in cross-ways and floods have burial,
That is an old device, and it was play'd
That is hot ice and wondrous strange snow.
That is some satire, keen and critical,
That is the madman. The lover, all as frantic,
That is the true beginning of our end.
That it may stand till the perpetual doom
That know love's grief by his complexion!
That lie and cog and flout, deprave and slander,
That lik'd, but had a rougher task in hand
That liv'd, that lov'd, that lik'd, that look'd with cheer.
That may be wish'd for.
That neither, singly, can be manifested
That now I aim at.
That only wounds by hearsay.
That pure congealed white, high Taurus' snow,
That quaint in green she shall be loose enrob'd,
That rage in savage sensuality.
That rheumatic diseases do abound.
That stand'st between her father's ground and mine;
That the rude sea grew civil at her song,
That they have overborne their continents.
That thou began'st to twist so fine a story?
That thou shalt like an airy spirit go.
That thou, Iago, who hast had my purse
That through thy bosom makes me see thy heart.
That we are awake? It seems to me
That were impossible; but I pray you both,
That what we have we prize not to the worth
That which appears in proper nakedness?
That work for bread upon Athenian stalls,
That yet we sleep, we dream. Do not you think
That you have in her, bid her answer truly.
That you have such a February face,
That you should think, we come not to offend,
That's the scene that I would see, which will be merely a dumb
That, ere she sleep, has thrice her prayers said,
That, if it would but apprehend some joy,
That, in a spleen, unfolds both heaven and earth,
That, when I note another man like him,
That, when he wak'd, of force she must be ey'd.
The Doctor is well money'd, and his friends
The Duke was here, and bid us follow him?
The Prince and Claudio promis'd by this hour
The actors are at band; and, by their show,
The better to denote her to the doctor-
The childing autumn, angry winter, change
The clamorous owl that nightly hoots and wonders
The clock gives me my cue, and my assurance bids me
The course of true love never did run smooth;
The deepest loathing to the stomach brings,
The dove pursues the griffin; the mild hind
The ear more quick of apprehension makes;
The fairest grant is the necessity.
The fairy land buys not the child of me.
The fold stands empty in the drowned field,
The forms of things unknown, the poet's pen
The hate I bare thee made me leave thee so?
The heavy gait of night. Sweet friends, to bed.
The honey bags steal from the humble-bees,
The human mortals want their winter here;
The iron tongue of midnight hath told twelve.
The jaws of darkness do devour it up;
The juice of it on sleeping eyelids laid
The lazy time, if not with some delight?
The like himself. Therefore give me no counsel.
The lunatic, the lover, and the poet,
The maid hath given consent to go with him.
The man shall have his mare again, and all shall be well.
The mirth whereof so larded with my matter
The moon, methinks, looks with a wat'ry eye;
The more my prayer, the lesser is my grace.
The more you beat me, I will fawn on you.
The next thing then she waking looks upon,
The nine men's morris is fill'd up with mud,
The object and the pleasure of mine eye,
The one I'll slay, the other slayeth me.
The other must be held the worthier.
The ox hath therefore stretch'd his yoke in vain,
The pale companion is not for our pomp.     Exit PHILOSTRATE
The passion of loud laughter never shed.
The ploughman lost his sweat, and the green corn
The poet's eye, in a fine frenzy rolling,
The practice of it lives in John the bastard,
The proudest of them shall well hear of it.
The purpose why is here-in which disguise,
The rest I'd give to be to you translated.
The rite of May; and, hearing our intent,
The rogues slighted me into the river with as little remorse
The sealing-day betwixt my love and me
The seasons alter: hoary-headed frosts
The several chairs of order look you scour
The shallowest thickskin of that barren sort,
The sisters' vows, the hours that we have spent,
The skies, the fountains, every region near
The smallest monstrous mouse that creeps on floor,
The smallest twine may lead me.
The squirrel's hoard, and fetch thee new nuts.
The starry welkin cover thou anon
The story that is printed in her blood?
The summer still doth tend upon my state;
The sun was not so true unto the day
The superstitious idle-headed eld
The supposition of the lady's death
The tedious minutes I with her have spent.
The tenure of my book; trust not my age,
The trusty Thisby, coming first by night,
The truth is, she and I, long since contracted,
The villain is much lighter heel'd than I.
The virtue that possession would not show us
The will of man is by his reason sway'd,
The wisest aunt, telling the saddest tale,
The wolves have prey'd, and look, the gentle day,
The worst that may befall me in this case,
Their counsel turns to passion, which before
Their sense thus weak, lost with their fears thus strong,
Their wonted liveries; and the mazed world,
Then after to her father will I break,
Then by your side no bed-room me deny,
Then crush this herb into Lysander's eye;
Then how can it be said I am alone
Then know that I as Snug the joiner am
Then let them all encircle him about,
Then let us teach our trial patience,
Then slip I from her bum, down topples she,
Then stir Demetrius up with bitter wrong;
Then to the wood will he to-morrow night
Then to your offices, and let me rest.
Then, for the third part of a minute, hence:
Then, what it was that next came in her eye,
There is not chastity, enough in language
There is not one word apt, one player fitted.
There my Lysander and myself shall meet;
There pinch the maids as blue as bilberry;
There shall the pairs of faithful lovers be
There shalt thou find my cousin Beatrice
There sleeps Titania sometime of the night,
There to remain.
There will I stay for thee.
There will we make our peds of roses,
There's a double meaning in that. 'I took no more pains for those
There's her cousin, an she were not possess'd with a fury,exceeds
There's not a note of mine that's worth the noting.
There, Leonato, take her back again.
There, gentle Hermia, may I marry thee;
Thereby to have defeated you and me:
Therefore I think I am not in the night;
Therefore all hearts in love use their own tongues;
Therefore be out of hope, of question, of doubt;
Therefore is it most expedient for the wise, if Don Worm (his
Therefore let Benedick, like cover'd fire,
Therefore no marvel though Demetrius
Therefore no more turn me to him, sweet Nan.
Therefore the moon, the governess of floods,
Therefore the winds, piping to us in vain,
Therefore, fair Hermia, question your desires,
These antique fables, nor these fairy toys.
These couples shall eternally be knit.
These hands shall tear her. If they wrong her honour,
These vows are Hermia's. Will you give her o'er?
They wilfully themselves exil'd from light,
They would have stol'n away, they would, Demetrius,
Things base and vile, holding no quantity,
Things growing are not ripe until their season;
This Helena, old Nedar's Helena.
This beauteous lady Thisby is certain.
This grisly beast, which Lion hight by name,
This hateful imperfection of her eyes.
This is an accident of hourly proof,
This loam, this rough-cast, and this stone, doth show
This man hath bewitch'd the bosom of my child.
This man hath my consent to marry her.
This man is Pyramus, if you would know;
This man, with lanthorn, dog, and bush of thorn,
This man, with lime and rough-cast, doth present
This old moon wanes! She lingers my desires,
This palpable-gross play hath well beguil'd
This princess of pure white, this seal of bliss!
This shame derives itself from unknown loins'?
This sport, well carried, shall be chronicled.
This tale of Heme the Hunter for a truth.
This was lofty. Now name the rest of the players. This is
This whole earth may be bor'd, and that the moon
This you should pity rather than despise.
Thisby dear, and lady dear!'
Thisby!
Thisby, is the better- he for a man, God warrant us: She for a
Those that Hobgoblin call you, and sweet Puck,
Those that betray them do no treachery.
Thou art not by mine eye, Lysander, found;
Thou hast by moonlight at her window sung,
Thou hast so wrong'd mine innocent child and me
Thou pure impiety and impious purity!
Thou run'st before me, shifting every place,
Thou runaway, thou coward, art thou fled?
Thou seest that all the grace that she hath left
Thou shalt aby it.
Thou shalt fly him, and he shall seek thy love.
Thou shalt remain here whether thou wilt or no.
Thou told'st me they were stol'n unto this wood,
Thou wall, O wall, O sweet and lovely wall,
Thou, thou, Lysander, thou hast given her rhymes,
Though I alone do feel the injury.
Though twenty thousand worthier come to crave her.      Exit
Thought I thy spirits were stronger than thy shames,
Thrice-blessed they that master so their blood
Throttle their practis'd accent in their fears,
Through Athens I am thought as fair as she.
Through Athens' gates have we devis'd to steal.
Through bog, through bush, through brake, through brier;
Through which the fearful lovers are to whisper.
Through which the lovers, Pyramus and Thisby,
Thus far can I praise him: he is of a noble strain, of approved
Thy crazed title to my certain right.
Thy lips, those kissing cherries, tempting grow!
Thy love ne'er alter till thy sweet life end!
Thy slander hath gone through and through her heart,
Thy stones with lime and hair knit up in thee.
Thy threats have no more strength than her weak prayers
Tie up my love's tongue, bring him silently.          Exeunt
Till I torment thee for this injury.
Till candles and star-light and moonshine be out.
Till o'er their brows death-counterfeiting sleep
Till then, farewell, sir; she must needs go in;
Time hath not yet so dried this blood of mine,
Titania wak'd, and straightway lov'd an ass.
Titania, music call; and strike more dead
To Athens will I bear my folly back,
To Master Brook you yet shall hold your word;
To Theseus must be wedded, and you come
To amorous Phillida. Why art thou here,
To bait me with this foul derision?
To be my henchman.
To be so moral when he shall endure
To bear him to my bower in fairy land.
To bind our loves up in a holy band;
To burn the errors that these princes hold
To call me goddess, nymph, divine, and rare,
To call young Claudio to a reckoning for it.
To conjure tears up in a poor maid's eyes
To dance our ringlets to the whistling wind,
To death, or to a vow of single life.
To die upon the hand I love so well.             Exit HELENA
To do observance to a morn of May,
To do you service.
To ease the anguish of a torturing hour?
To fan the moonbeams from his sleeping eyes.
To fashion this false sport in spite of me.
To fetch me trifles, and return again,
To fit your fancies to your father's will,
To follow me and praise my eyes and face?
To give our hearts united ceremony.
To give their bed joy and prosperity?
To greet me with premeditated welcomes;
To guide our measure round about the tree.
To have his sight thither and back again.               Exit
To have my love to bed and to arise;
To hear the sea-maid's music.
To her foul tainted flesh!
To her he hates? And wherefore doth Lysander
To her he thinks not worthy, yet he wooes,
To honour Helen, and to be her knight!                  Exit
To join with men in scorning your poor friend?
To leave the city and commit yourself
To leave the figure, or disfigure it.
To link my dear friend to a common stale.
To listen our propose. This is thy office.
To live a barren sister all your life,
To make my small elves coats; and some keep back
To measure out my length on this cold bed.
To meet at Ninus' tomb, there, there to woo.
To pinch her by the hand, and, on that token,
To plainer ground.      Exit LYSANDER as following the voice
To pluck this crawling serpent from my breast.
To praise him more than ever man did merit.
To prove him false that says I love thee not.
To put a strange face on his own perfection.
To quit me of them throughly.
To seek new friends and stranger companies.
To set against me for your merriment.
To shallow rivers, to whose falls
To shallow rivers, to whose falls-
To shallow, etc.
To shallow-
To slander music any more than once.
To sleep by hate, and fear no enmity?
To spy an I can hear my Thisby's face.
To stain my cousin with. One doth not know
To start into her face, a thousand innocent shames
To stay for me at church, 'twixt twelve and one,
To strike me, spurn me, nay, to kill me too;
To stubborn harshness. And, my gracious Duke,
To take from thence all error with his might
To take her by the hand and bid her go,
To those that wring under the load of sorrow,
To trust the opportunity of night,
To turn all beauty into thoughts of harm,
To undergo such maiden pilgrimage;
To visit me. You know your office, brother:
To vow, and swear, and superpraise my parts,
To wear away this long age of three hours
To what, my love, shall I compare thine eyne?
To whisper. At the which let no man wonder.
To whom you are but as a form in wax,
To wish him wrestle with affection
To witness simple virtue, Would you not swear,
To you your father should be as a god;
To-day to marry with my brother's daughter?
To-morrow morning come you to my house,
To-morrow night, when Phoebe doth behold
To-morrow truly will I meet with thee.
To-night I take my leave. This naughty man
To-night at Heme's oak, just 'twixt twelve and one,
Tom Snout, the tinker.
Tongue.                                              [Exit.]
Took up a beggar's issue at my gates,
Transparent Helena! Nature shows art,
Troilus the first employer of panders, and a whole book full of
Troop home to churchyards. Damned spirits all
Trust not my reading nor my observation,
Turn melancholy forth to funerals;
Turn'd her obedience, which is due to me,
Turns into yellow gold his salt green streams.
Turns them to shapes, and gives to airy nothing
Tush, fear not, man! We'll tip thy horns with gold,
Two bosoms interchained with an oath,
Two lovely berries moulded on one stern;
Two of the first, like coats in heraldry,
Uncouple in the western valley; let them go.
Under some biting error.
Unless you can find sport in their intents,
Unto his lordship, whose unwished yoke
Unworthy as I am, to follow you.
Upon faint primrose beds were wont to lie,
Upon that day either prepare to die
Upon the error that you heard debated.
Upon the instant that she was accus'd,
Upon the next live creature that it sees.
Upon this spotted and inconstant man.
Use me but as your spaniel, spurn me, strike me,
Uttering such dulcet and harmonious breath
Values itself so highly that to her
Valuing of her--why, she, O, she is fall'n
Verefore will you not meet-a me?
Wait in your royal walks, your board, your bed!
Wake when some vile thing is near.                      Exit
Walk in the orchard, and our whole discourse
Walk round about an oak, with great ragg'd horns;
Wall, that vile Wall which did these lovers sunder;
War, death, or sickness, did lay siege to it,
Was I betroth'd ere I saw Hermia.
Was never holla'd to, nor cheer'd with horn,
Was the first motive that I woo'd thee, Anne;
Was to be gone from Athens, where we might,
Was wont to swell like round and orient pearls
Wash'd it with tears? Hence from her! let her die.
We are not here. That you should here repent you,
We are their parents and original.
We cannot fight for love as men may do;
We do not act that often jest and laugh;
We do not come, as minding to content you,
We here attend you. Are you yet determin'd
We may effect this business yet ere day.         Exit OBERON
We must follow the leaders.
We shall chide downright if I longer stay.
We should be woo'd, and were not made to woo.
We two in great amazedness will fly.
We will, fair Queen, up to the mountain's top,
We'll all present ourselves; dis-horn the spirit,
We'll fit the kid-fox with a pennyworth.
We'll hold a feast in great solemnity.
We'll leave a proof, by that which we will do,
We'll none of that: that have I told my love,
We'll rest us, Hermia, if you think it good,
We, Hermia, like two artificial gods,
Wedded, with Theseus, an in jollity.
Weed wide enough to wrap a fairy in;
Weigh oath with oath, and you will nothing weigh:
Well, a horn for my money, when all's done.
Were I not old. Know, Claudio, to thy head,
Were met together to rehearse a play
Were the world mine, Demetrius being bated,
What I have done being young, or what would do,
What cannot be eschew'd must be embrac'd.
What is 'lapis,' William?
What is he for a fool that betroths himself to unquietness?
What kind of catechising call you this?
What man was he talk'd with you yesternight,
What masque? what music? How shall we beguile
What night-rule now about this haunted grove?
What revels are in hand? Is there no play
What shall be done with him? What is your plot?
What though I be not so in grace as you,
What though he love your Hermia? Lord, what though?
What wicked and dissembling glass of mine
What worser place can I beg in your love,
What's the matter? How now!
What, a play toward! I'll be an auditor;
What, out of hearing gone? No sound, no word?
When I a fat and bean-fed horse beguile,
When I am sure you hate me with your hearts.
When I come where he calls, then he is gone.
When I did him at this advantage take,
When I do name him, let it be thy part
When I from Thebes came last a conqueror.
When I had at my pleasure taunted her,
When all the world is here to look on me?
When are you married, madam?
When at your hands did I deserve this scorn?
When cowardice pursues and valour flies.
When every thing seems double.
When he shall hear she died upon his words,
When he would play the noble beast in love.
When in a wood of Crete they bay'd the bear
When in that moment, so it came to pass,
When lion rough in wildest rage doth roar.
When simpleness and duty tender it.
When the false Troyan under sail was seen,
When they next wake, all this derision
When thou hast stolen away from fairy land,
When thou hold'st up thy hand. O, let me kiss
When thou wak'st, it is thy dear.
When truth kills truth, O devilish-holy fray!
When we have chid the hasty-footed time
When we have laugh'd to see the sails conceive,
When wheat is green, when hawthorn buds appear.
When you went onward on this ended action,
When, after that the holy rites are ended,
Whenas I sat in Pabylon-
Where I did meet thee once with Helena
Where I have come, great clerks have purposed
Where I have seen them shiver and look pale,
Where art thou now?
Where fires thou find'st unrak'd, and hearths unswept,
Where honeysuckles, ripened by the sun,
Where is Demetrius? O, how fit a word
Where is Lysander and fair Hermia?
Where is our usual manager of mirth?
Where oxlips and the nodding violet grows,
Where there was no proportion held in love.
Where we may take him and disgrace him for it.
Where's Mounsieur Cobweb?
Whereat with blade, with bloody blameful blade,
Wherein it doth impair the seeing sense,
Whether, if you yield not to your father's choice,
Which I mistrusted not. Farewell therefore Hero!
Which Lion vile with bloody mouth did stain.
Which by no means we may extenuate-
Which death, or absence, soon shall remedy.
Which falls into mine ears as profitless
Which forced marriage would have brought upon her.
Which in my childhood I did dote upon;
Which is as bad as die with tickling.
Which is as brief as I have known a play;
Which is the best to furnish me to-morrow.
Which is the lady I must seize upon?
Which is- no, no- which was the fairest dame
Which makes it tedious; for in all the play
Which never labour'd in their minds till now;
Which now in some slight measure it will pay,
Which shall be either to this gentleman
Which she must dote on in extremity.
Which she, with pretty and with swimming gait
Which simpleness and merit purchaseth.
Which straight she gave me, and her fairy sent
Which they themselves not feel; but, tasting it,
Which was before barr'd up with ribs of iron!
Which when I saw rehears'd, I must confess,
Which with experimental seal doth warrant
While I thy amiable cheeks do coy,
While other jests are something rank on foot,
While other sports are tasking of their minds,
While she was in her dull and sleeping hour,
Whiles I in this affair do thee employ,
Whiles it was ours. So will it fare with Claudio.
Whiles we enjoy it, but being lack'd and lost,
Whisper her ear and tell her, I and Ursley
Who I believe was pack'd in all this wrong,
Who Pyramus presented, in their sport
Who comes here? What news, Borachio?
Who comes here? my doe?
Who even but now did spurn me with his foot,
Who hath indeed, most like a liberal villain,
Who lov'd her so that, speaking of her foulness,
Who smirched thus and mir'd with infamy,
Who will not change a raven for a dove?
Who would give a bird the he, though he cry 'cuckoo' never so?
Who, mutually, hath answer'd my affection,
Whom I do love and will do till my death.
Whose joy of her is overwhelm'd like mine,
Whose liquor hath this virtuous property,
Whose spirits toil in frame of villanies.
Why ever wast thou lovely in my eyes?
Why had I not with charitable hand
Why seek'st thou me? Could not this make thee know
Why seek'st thou then to cover with excuse
Why should Titania cross her Oberon?
Why should not I then prosecute my right?
Why then, you left me- O, the gods forbid!-
Why will you suffer her to flout me thus?
Why, how now, what does Master Fenton here?
Why, now let me die, for I have liv'd long enough; this is
Why, then we rack the value, then we find
Will even weigh; and both as light as tales.
Will fashion the event in better shape
Will make or man or woman madly dote
Will none but Heme the Hunter serve your turn?
Will quench the wonder of her infamy.
Will you with free and unconstrained soul
Win me and wear me! Let him answer me.
Windsor.                                          Exit CAIUS
Wings and no eyes figure unheedy haste;
Wink each at other; hold the sweet jest up;
Wishes and tears, poor Fancy's followers.
With Ariadne and Antiopa?
With a disdainful youth; anoint his eyes;
With any just reproach?
With bracelets of thy hair, rings, gawds, conceits,
With candle-wasters--bring him yet to me,
With coronet of fresh and fragrant flowers;
With cunning hast thou filch'd my daughter's heart;
With drooping fog as black as Acheron,
With ears that sweep away the morning dew;
With feigning voice, verses of feigning love,
With hounds of Sparta; never did I hear
With juice of balm and every precious flower;
With leaden legs and batty wings doth creep.
With league whose date till death shall never end.
With loyal blazon, evermore be blest!
With pomp, with triumph, and with revelling.
With purple grapes, green figs, and mulberries;
With ribands pendent, flaring 'bout her head;
With rounds of waxen tapers on their heads,
With sighs of love that costs the fresh blood dear.
With some diffused song; upon their sight
With sweet musk-roses, and with eglantine;
With the dear love I bear to fair Anne Page;
With the love-juice, as I did bid thee do?
With the rich worth of your virginity.
With this same play against your nuptial.
With your derision! None of noble sort
Withdraw into a chamber by yourselves,
Without offence to utter them. Thus, pretty lady,
Without the peril of the Athenian law-
Without the show of both. Fat Falstaff
Wives may be merry and yet honest too.
Worthy the owner and the owner it.
Would give preceptial medicine to rage,
Would imitate, and sail upon the land,
Would so offend a virgin, and extort
Would the two princes lie? and Claudio lie,
Writ in my cousin's hand, stol'n from her pocket,
Yearly will I do this rite.
Yet Benedick was such another, and now is he become a man. He
Yet Hermia still loves you; then be content.
Yet I must speak. Choose your revenge yourself;
Yet mark'd I where the bolt of Cupid fell.
Yet once again, to make us public sport,
Yet seek my father's love; still seek it, sir.
Yet will he swear he loves.
Yet you, the murderer, look as bright, as clear,
Yet, by mine honour, I will deal in this
Yet, wooing thee, I found thee of more value
You are both sure, and will assist me?
You bead, you acorn.
You both are rivals, and love Hermia;
You can endure the livery of a nun,
You do me mischief. Fie, Demetrius!
You do their work, and they shall have good luck.
You have heard of such a spirit, and well you know
You minimus, of hind'ring knot-grass made;
You moonshine revellers, and shades of night,
You must be father to your brother's daughter,
You of your wife, and me of my consent,
You orphan heirs of fixed destiny,
You see how simple and how fond I am.
You seem to me as Dian in her orb,
You shall know all, that you are like to know,
You shall see it will fall pat as I told you; yonder she comes.
You sway the motion of Demetrius' heart!
You thief of love! What! Have you come by night,
You were best meddle with buck-washing.
You will say she did embrace me as a husband,
You would have married her most shamefully,
You would not do me thus much injury.
You would not make me such an argument.
You would not use a gentle lady so:
You wrong me, sir, thus still to haunt my house.
Your buskin'd mistress and your warrior love,
Your daughter here the princes left for dead,
Your eyes are lode-stars and your tongue's sweet air
Your hands than mine are quicker for a fray;
Your niece regards me with an eye of favour.
Your over-kindness doth wring tears from me.
Your vows to her and me, put in two scales,
Your wrongs do set a scandal on my sex.
Yours would I catch, fair Hermia, ere I go!
[Aloud]  I will knog your urinals about your knave's cogscomb
[Beatrice advances from the arbour.]
[Gets into the basket; they cover him with foul linen]
[Then speaking small] 'Ah Pyramus, my lover dear! Thy
[To the Son] Cousin, you know what you have to do.
[to Leonato and Claudio] with your two helps, will so practise on
a Dutch dish, to be thrown into the Thames, and cool'd,
a German from the waist downward, all slops, and a Spaniard from
a Scotch jig--and full as fantastical; the wedding, mannerly
a blush tinsel. But for a fine, quaint, graceful, and excellent
a capon, the which if I do not carve most curiously, say my
a contemptible spirit.
a dead man. What a woman are you! Away with him,
a gown above.
a husband!'
a husband.' An bad thinking do not wrest true speaking, I'll
a kind of alacrity in sinking; if the bottom were as deep as
a kind of zeal both to the Prince and Claudio, as--in love of
a knave.
a league between my good man and he! Is your wife at
a lender than you are; the which hath something
a maid--that you have discover'd thus. They will scarcely believe
a man is Claudio. I have known when there was no music with him
a man of mine: the Prince discovered to Claudio that he loved my
a nay-word how to know one another. I come to her in
a pepper box. But, lest the devil that guides him should aid
a rechate winded in my forehead, or hang my bugle in an invisible
a skirmish of wit between them.
a sweet voice.
a watch.
a young Florentine called Claudio.
a-birding; she desires you once more to come to her between
absent) and there shall appear such seeming truth of Hero's
accus'd, in this manner refus'd, and upon the grief of this
accusation; and briefly, I desire nothing but the reward of a
action of an old woman, deliver'd me, the knave constable
adoption of abominable terms, and by him that does me
afeard.
affection ranges evenly with mine. How canst thou cross this
affection, that I should win what you would enjoy?
afflicted, we two will still be the ministers.
affliction.
afoot to see a good armour; and now will he lie ten nights awake
after thee? Wilt thou, after the expense of so much money,
after, we'll a-birding together; I have a fine hawk for
afterwards.
again with drinking, pick out mine eyes with a ballad-maker's pen
again. He so takes on yonder with my husband; so rails
against all married mankind; so curses an Eve's daughters,
against it; and therefore never flout at me for what I have said
against it; for man is a giddy thing, and this is my conclusion.
against me. I pray you choose another subject.
against me. Now shall the devil be sham'd. What, wife, I
ah, ha, he!
aim better at me by that I now will manifest. For my brother, I
all ladies, only you excepted; and I would I could find in my
all my neighbours shall cry aim.  [Clock strikes]
all vagrom men; you are to bid any man stand, in the Prince's
all.
all. Pyramus enter: your cue is past; it is 'never tire.'
altar; it hath done meritorious service.
alters? A man loves the meat in his youth that he cannot endure
always count you my deer.
am I mistook in you!
am a Jew. I will go get her picture.                   Exit.
am sure, I have received none, unless experience be a jewel;
amaz'd, he will every way be mock'd.
amiable encounter.
among twenty, that will praise himself.
an epigram? No. If a man will be beaten with brains, 'a shall
an intolerable fright to be detected with a jealous rotten
an offence to stay a man against his will.
an-ape to Anne Page.
and Claudio mightily abus'd, and Don John is the author of all,
and God give thee joy!
and I paid nothing for it neither, but was paid for my
and I praise God for you.
and I pray you all go with me.
and I shall meet; and till then peace be with him.
and I will deliver his wife into your hand. Follow. Strange
and I will use your skill.--Good cousin, have a care this busy
and I'll be as good as my word; but speciously for Master
and Thisby meet by moonlight.
and bid those that are drunk get them to bed.
and butter'd, and give them to a dog for a new-year's gift.
and fairies will not pinse you.
and finds her lover?
and five-and-thirty? sometimes fashioning them like Pharaoh's
and friend Simple by your name, which way have you
and give him another hope, to betray him to another
and half Count John's melancholy in Signior Benedick's face--
and hang me up at the door of a brothel house for the sign of
and it better fits my blood to be disdain'd of all than to
and let not him speak neither.
and men are only turn'd into tongue, and trim ones too. He is now
and methinks there would be no period to the jest, should
and perturbation follows her.
and read.
and she will die, if he woo her, rather than she will bate one
and starings, pribbles and prabbles?
and tend on no man's business; laugh when I am merry, and claw no
and the Duchess on his wedding-day at night.
and the bones.
and the pipe. I have known when he would have walk'd ten mile
and this dog, my dog.
and to conclude, what you lay to their charge.
and to the purpose, like an honest man and a soldier; and now is
and wak'd herself with laughing.
and will lend nothing for God's sake. Pray you examine him upon
and wine, and metheglins, and to drinkings, and swearings,
and, in her invention and Ford's wife's distraction, they
angry?
anon; follow me, gentlemen.                             Exit
another man is a fool when he dedicates his behaviours to love,
another when they meet.
any longer; you must be pinion'd.
apparel than the man. But art not thou thyself giddy with the
apparel, and smell like Bucklersbury in simple time; I
appear, and there's an end.              [ They step aside.]
appoint?
appointment; even as you came in to me her assistant, or
apprehension?
are arrested for it, Master Brook.
are in the moon. But silence; here comes Thisby.
are simple men; we do not know what's brought to pass
are, being a man. Truly the lady fathers herself. Be happy, lady;
arms.                                     [Takes out a book]
army of any sort.
art as foolish Christian creatures as I would desires.
as any sucking dove; I will roar you an 'twere any nightingale.
as the day is long.
as they would have drown'd a blind bitch's puppies, fifteen
as valiant as Hercules that only tells a lie,and swears it. I
aside with me. I have studied eight or nine wise words to speak
ask'd who was in the basket!
aspicious persons, and we would have them this morning examined
ass.
at him upon my knees every morning and evening. Lord, I could not
at midnight? Fie, fie! he'll never come!
attempt us again.
away with him; better shame than murder.
away your child on a fool, and a physician? Look on
away. O that I had been writ down an ass!
bachelor of threescore again? Go to, i' faith! An thou wilt needs
baldrick, all women shall pardon me. Because I will not do them
basket. I quak'd for fear lest the lunatic knave would have
basket]  Gentlemen, I have dream'd to-night; I'll tell you my
basted on neither. Ere you flout old ends any further, examine
be a handsome fellow, or else make another cursy, and say,
be a tailor to thee, and shall make thee a new doublet and
be beaten till lately. Follow me. I'll tell you strange things
be call'd 'Bottom's Dream,' because it hath no bottom; and I will
be hanged. He would have deserved it: sixpence a day in Pyramus,
be known tonight or never. Be you in the Park about
be like a jack-an-apes also, to burn the knight with my
be meet with you, I doubt it not.
be now a gainer? Good body, I thank thee. Let them say
be put into the lantern. How is it else the man i' th' moon?
be said to be a flattering honest man, it must not be denied but
be sworn, if he be so, his conceit is false. Here, Claudio, I
be, that's certain; wise, or I'll none; virtuous, or I'll never
bear you the lanthorn. This is your charge: you shall comprehend
beards, new ribbons to your pumps; meet presently at the palace;
beast a man; in some other a man a beast. You were also,
beaten myself into all the colours of the rainbow; and
beauty.
because they would go thither; so indeed all disquiet, horror,
become the argument of his own scorn by falling in love; and such
been cozen'd and beaten too. If it should come to the car
been grievously peaten as an old oman; methinks there
before your worship.
began to assume life and scold with her. She told me, not
beguil'd Master Slender of his chain cozen'd him of it.
being a professed tyrant to their sex?
being here, and hath threat'ned to put me into everlasting
bell-wether; next, to be compass'd like a good bilbo in the
bell; and his tongue is the clapper, for what his heart thinks,
bellows-mender! Snout, the tinker! Starveling! God's my life,
better bett'red expectation than you must expect of me to tell
between him and Benedick. The one is too like an image and says
bills be not stol'n. Well, you are to call at all the alehouses
birding-pieces.
black and blue, that you cannot see a white spot about her.
blades, which God be thanked hurt not. My lord, for your many
blind Cupid.
body and soul.
boy with her! Good plots! They are laid; and our revolted
brake our tiring-house; and we will do it in action, as we will
break the peace, he ought to enter into a quarrel with fear and
breath of her accustomed crossness.
breath, and foul breath is noisome. Therefore I will depart
breeding, admirable discourse, of great admittance, authentic in
brewage.  [Exit BARDOLPH]  How now!
briefly, I have pursu'd her as love hath pursued me; which
brother the bastard is fled from Messina. You have among you
brought to Leonato's. I will go before and show him their
brow? or do you play the flouting Jack, to tell us Cupid is a
brows.
bullocks. But did you think the Prince would have served you
bully! What says my Aesculapius? my Galen? my heart
but I warrant thee, Claudio, the time shall not go dully by us.
but I will aggravate my voice so, that I will roar you as gently
but all disordered. Who is next?
but indeed, God forbid it should be so!'
but minister such assistance as I shall give you direction.
but that I am afeard.
but the drum and the fife; and now had he rather hear the tabor
but to a cow too curst he sends none.
butcher's offal, and to be thrown in the Thames? Well, if
by gar, me vill have it.
by helping me to the speech of Beatrice.
call Margaret Hero, hear Margaret term me Claudio; and bring them
call the rest of the watch together and thank God you are rid of
call you, come forth, and, without any pause or
came beyond Eton, they threw me off from behind one of
came so near the life of passion as she discovers it.
can tell you how things go better than I can. You may ask
cannot avoid, yet to be what I would not shall not make
cannot be a man with wishing; therefore I will die a woman with
cannot see how sleeping should offend. Only have a care that your
cannot; but I love thee, none but thee; and thou deserv'st it.
carry 't; 'tis in his buttons; he will carry 't.
carving the fashion of a new doublet. He was wont to speak plain
case, William?
casement.
caught than the pestilence, and the taker runs presently mad. God
chafe at the doctor's marrying my daughter; but 'tis no
chambers, and in the coffers, and in the presses, heaven forgive
charms, by spells, by th' figure, and such daub'ry as this
cheapen her; fair, or I'll never look on her; mild, or come not
cheese, an Irishman with my aqua-vitae bottle, or a thief to
choke a daw withal. You have no stomach, signior. Fare you well.
church.
circumference of a peck, hilt to point, heel to head; and
circumference.
civil count--civil as an orange, and something of that jealous
close by the Thames side.
cloth-o'-gold and cuts, and lac'd with silver, set with pearls
clothes? Come away.
coffer, chest, trunk, well, vault, but he hath an abstract for
cog, and say thou art this and that, like a many of these
come before Master Constable.
come before to tell you. If you know yourself clear, why,
come hither as a lion, it were pity of my life. No, I am no such
come off; I'll sauce them. Come.                      Exeunt
come, your Bergomask; let your epilogue alone.     [A dance]
comes.
command; I have turn'd away my other guests. They must
companion, the host of the Garter.
companions, thither provoked and instigated by his
company. I think, if your husbands were dead, you two
complement, and ceremony of it. But are you sure of your
complexion.
concluded with a sigh, thou wast the proper'st man in Italy.
conference with this harpy. You have no employment for me?
conference. I whipt me behind the arras and there heard it agreed
confessing to this man, how Don John your brother incensed me to
conjure her, for certainly, while she is here, a man may live as
conscience) find no impediment to the contrary, to be the trumpet
construction made of her. Now, Sir John, here is the heart
continuer. But keep your way, a God's name! I have done.
contrary, if Hero would be my wife.
convey him out. Be not amaz'd; call all your senses to you;
convey'd me into a buck-basket.
cool the while. I love Benedick well, and I could wish he would
cost him a thousand pound ere 'a be cured.
costard when I have goot opportunities for the ork. Pless
could get her good will.
counsel.
count, Count Comfect, a sweet gallant surely! O that I were a man
courageously. Take pains; be perfect; adieu.
courtesies I thank you. I must discontinue your company. Your
courtier.
cousin.
cousin. I must say she is dead-and so farewell.
cowl-staff? Look how you drumble. Carry them to the laundress
cozen-germans that has cozen'd all the hosts of Readins,
cozened. Fare you well.                                 Exit
creature. Who is his companion now? He hath every month a new
cried 'budget' as Anne and I had appointed; and yet it was
cross me thus.
crying; for the ewe that will not hear her lamb when it baes will
cue. She is to enter now, and I am to spy her through the wall.
daff'd all other respects and made her half myself. I pray you
danc'd with her told her she is much wrong'd by you.
danc'd, and under that was I born. Cousins, God give you joy!
dance, and if he found her accordant, he meant to take the
daughter and her gentlewomen carry. The sport will be, when they
daughter tell you how.
daughter told us all.
daughter.
daughter.
day; a most lovely gentleman-like man; therefore you must needs
dear account. As you hear of me, so think of me. Go comfort your
death.
deceiv'd you both; I have directed you to wrong places;
defences, which now are too too strongly embattl'd against
defend your reputation, or bid farewell to your good life
degree of a squire.
delight in him; and the commendation is not in his wit, but in
deliver I up my apes, and away to Saint Peter--for the heavens.
desire they were; but, in faith, honest as the skin between his
desire you of more acquaintance too. Your name, I beseech you,
desire you that we may be friends; and let us knog our prains
devil, and we shall know him by his horns. Let's away;
devise to send me on; I will fetch you a toothpicker now from the
did last time.
did look upon.
dilemma.
direction. Be gone, and come when you are call'd.
discourse, my lord.
discretion, and let us listen to the Moon.
discretion, and the fox carries the goose.
discretion, or undertakes them with a most Christianlike fear.
disgrace Hero before the whole assembly, and not marry her.
disloyalty that jealousy shall be call'd assurance and all the
displeasure. That young start-up hath all the glory of my
distemper, and, forsooth, to search his house for his wife's
do a desperate outrage to herself. It is very true.
do it before the Duke.
do it without controlment. You have of late stood out against
do it, let the audience look to their eyes; I will move storms; I
do not take pity of her, I am a villain; if I do not love her, I
do what I can for them all three, for so I have promis'd,
doctor? No; he gives me the potions and the motions. Shall I
does lend articles?
done.
door with pistols, that none shall issue out; otherwise you
door; who ask'd them once or twice what they had in their
double tongue; there's two tongues.' Thus did she an hour
double-dealer, which out of question thou wilt be if my cousin do
doubt but to hear them say it is a sweet comedy. No more words.
down sleeves, side-sleeves, and skirts, round underborne with
drawer.                                        Exit BARDOLPH
draws on. Now the hot-blooded gods assist me!
dream. Here, here, here be my keys; ascend my chambers,
drive some of them to a non-come. Only get the learned writer to
drove the grossness of the foppery into a receiv'd belief,
during his life; he could not have scaped sixpence a day. An the
dust? to make an account of her life to a clod of wayward marl?
ear of man hath not seen, man's hand is not able to taste, his
earnest of the berrord and lead his apes into hell.
effect your ensuing marriage--surely suit ill spent and labour
eight and nine; I must carry her word quickly. She'll make
eight o'clock, to have amends.
either to make him a garland, as being forsaken, or to bind him
embassage to the Pygmies--rather than hold three words'
embold'ned me to this unseason'd intrusion; for they say, if
enamour'd on Hero. I pray you dissuade him from her; she is no
endure a husband with a beard on his face. I had rather lie in
endured.
enemy.
enfranchis'd with a clog; therefore I have decreed not to sing in
engross'd opportunities to meet her; fee'd every slight occasion
enough of themselves; and to call 'horum'; fie upon you!
enough to hang us all.
enough without a badge of bitterness.
equal for his birth. You may do the part of an honest man in it.
ere he dies, he shall live no longer in monument than the bell
ere now. I desire you of more acquaintance, good Master
erected it.
erection.
even road of a blank verse--why, they were never so truly turn'd
ever be your table sport; let them say of me 'As jealous as
ever govern'd frenzy. I will tell you-he beat me grievously
ever yet beheld seem'd but tameness, civility, and patience,
every man look o'er his part; for the short and the long is, our
everything, right as it fell out.
evil that they will not admit any good part to intermingle with
examination.                                         [Exit.]
excellency of her honour that the folly of my soul dares
excellent musician, and her hair shall be of what colour it
excellent sweet lady, and (out of all suspicion) she is virtuous.
expectation.
experiment of his suspicion. But I am glad the knight is not
eyes; and moreover, I will go with thee to thy uncle's.
fain speak with you, and be acquainted with you; and hath
farm-house, a-feasting; and thou shalt woo her. Cried
fashion a carriage to rob love from any. In this, though I cannot
fashion of a doublet, or a hat, or a cloak, is nothing to a man.
fashion of the world is to avoid cost, and you encounter it.
fashion too, that thou hast shifted out of thy tale into telling
fashion will you wear the garland of? about your neck, like an
fashion, yours is worth ten on't.
faster and faster, till he sink into his grave.
father to break with him about it. The ladies follow her and but
father!
father.
fault done first in the form of a beast-O Jove, a beastly
fault!-and then another fault in the semblance of a fowl-
favour, sir, why, give God thanks and make no boast of it; and
fellow enough, go to! and a fellow that hath had losses; and one
fellow speaks it. Knavery cannot, sure, hide himself in such
fellow; and which is more, an officer; and which is more, a
figures out of your husband's brains. If they can find in their
fire and water for such a kind heart. But yet I would my
first possess'd them, partly by the dark night, which did deceive
fishermen's boots with me; I warrant they would whip me
fit, through all Athens, to play in our interlude before the Duke
flout me out of my humour. Dost thou think I care for a satire or
follow him like a dwarf.
follow me.                                            Exeunt
follow.
food to feed it as Signior Benedick? Courtesy itself must convert
fool. One woman is fair, yet I am well; another is wise, yet I am
foolery, as it appears he hath, he is no fool for fancy, as you
fools have brought to light, who in the night overheard me
foot; fetch you a hair off the great Cham's beard; do you any
for God defend but God should go before such villains! Masters,
for a secure and wilful Actaeon; and to these violent proceedings
for a tyrant. I could play Ercles rarely, or a part to tear a cat
for accusing the Lady Hero wrongfully.
for ever.
for her, as I have just cause, being her uncle and her guardian.
for his sake! or that I had any friend would be a man for my
for if I tell you, I am not true Athenian. I will tell you
for me?
for missing your meetings and appointments.
for my cousin.
for their sakes, more than the villainous inconstancy of
for this than mock'd; for it is as positive as the earth is firm
for this.
for thy cases, and the numbers of the genders? Thou
for trouble being gone, comfort should remain; but when you depart
for which of my bad parts didst thou first fall in love with me?
for you are like an honourable father.
for your writing and reading, let that appear when there is no
for, indeed, who would set his wit to so foolish a bird?
forbid her my house? She comes of errands, does she? We
forcible is thy wit. But I must tell thee plainly, Claudio
forehead, crying 'Peer-out, peer-out!' that any madness I
forget not that I am an ass. No, thou villain, thou art full of
forget to specify, when time and place shall serve, that I am an
forth the watch that are their accusers.
forward, doth it?
forward, we had all been made men.
foul linen upon him, as if it were going to bucking, or-it is
foul shirts and smocks, socks, foul stockings, greasy
friend; and I fear not mine own shame as much as his peril.
friend?
friendship, and I will one way or other make you amends.
fright me, if they could. But I will not stir from this place, do
from Master Slender.
from him.
from me, sorrow abides and happiness takes his leave.
from my two mistresses. What a beast am I to slack it!
from the so seeming Mistress Page, divulge Page himself
from you.
furthest inch of Asia; bring you the length of Prester John's
game! Said I well?
garden.
garland too; for the garland he might have worn himself, and the
gentlemen.            Exeunt all but MRS. FORD and MRS. PAGE
get you a pair of horns.
gift is in devising impossible slanders. None but libertines
give the watch-ords, do as I pid you. Come, come; trib,
glowing hot, in that surge, like a horse-shoe; think of that
go with me-I'll be horn mad.                            Exit
go you through the town to Frogmore.
go-between, parted from me; I say I shall be with her between
good Peter Quince, call forth your actors by the scroll. Masters,
good Signior Benedick, repair to Leonato's, commend me to him and
good Sir John, as you have one eye upon my follies, as you
good comfort. She calls you, coz; I'll leave you.
good exclamation on your worship as of any man in the city; and
good hare-finder and Vulcan a rare carpenter? Come, in what key
good husband.
good name. To be a well-favoured man is the gift of fortune, but
good neighbours. If a man do not erect in this age his own tomb
good night--I tell this tale vilely; I should first tell thee how
good time.
good will, look you; you are wise, and full of gibes and
gown big enough for him; otherwise he might put on a
grace.            [The LION tears THISBY'S Mantle, and exit]
great haste, as it may appear unto you.
great persuasion, and partly to save your life, for I was told
great preparation.
grieving.
gross one.' 'Nay,' said I, 'a good wit.' 'Just,' said she, 'it
guiltiness of my mind, the sudden surprise of my powers,
ha, ha?
had been swell'd! I should have been a mountain of
had never so good means as desire to make myself acquainted
had rather'! Your husband's here at hand; bethink you of
had set me i' th' stocks, i' th' common stocks, for a witch.
had you rather lead mine eyes, or eye your master's heels?
hand, and so I leave you. By this hand, Claudio shall render me a
hang out for the lion's claws. And, most dear actors, eat no
hang'd himself in Thisby's garter, it would have been a fine
hangman dare not shoot at him. He hath a heart as sound as a
happy if I could say how much. Lady, as you are mine, I am yours.
hat, a muffler, and a kerchief, and so escape.
hate him deadly, she would love him dearly. The old man's
hath any honesty in him.
hath been on the wing of all occasions. But whatsoever I
hath not such a name. Page is an ass, a secure ass; he will trust
hath pass'd between me and Ford's wife?
hath shown himself a wise and patient churchman. You
hath us'd so long and never paid that now men grow hard-hearted
have a care the honey-bag break not; I would be loath to have you
have any allegiance in them, being chosen for the Prince's watch.
have been into Thames, ere I will leave her thus. Her
have heard my daughter say she hath often dreamt of unhappiness
have her or no.
have lost it.
have merited, either in my mind or in my means, meed, I
have railed so long against marriage. But doth not the appetite
have seen more and heard more, proceed accordingly.
have some odd quirks and remnants of wit broken on me because I
have spoken untruths; secondarily, they are slanders; sixth and
have stables enough, you'll see he shall lack no barnes.
have suffer'd all this. My suit, then, is desperate;
have the truth of this from Hero; they seem to pity the lady.
have thrust virtue out of our hearts by the head and
have wooed in thy name, and fair Hero is won. I have broke with
hay, sweet hay, hath no fellow.
he be there again? In my house I am sure he is; my
he could not compass.
he dances, he has eyes of youth, he writes verses, he speaks
he eats his meat without grudging; and how you may be converted I
he is dead already, if he be come.
he is in love.
he is very courageous mad about his throwing into the
he not be publicly sham'd.
he shall not knit a knot in his fortunes with the finger of
he that hits me, let him be clapp'd on the shoulder and call'd
he turn'd orthography; his words are a very fantastical banquet--
he was in woman's apparel, I would not have had him.
he will wear his cap with suspicion? Shall I never see a
hear me, and let this Count kill me. I have deceived even your
hear their detractions and can put them to mending. They say the
hear them unfolded, turn another into the register of your
heard a man of his place, gravity, and learning, so wide of
heart that I had not a hard heart, for truly I love none.
heart, tears her hair, prays, curses--'O sweet Benedick! God give
heart-burn'd an hour after.
heart.
heartbreak.
hearts the poor unvirtuous fat knight shall be any further
heat as butter; a man of continual dissolution and thaw. It
held his hand. Well, on went he for a search, and away
hell I should down. I had been drown'd but that the shore
help the noble Claudio! If he have caught the Benedick, it will
her another embassy of meeting; 'twixt eight and nine is
her as much in beauty as the first of May doth the last of
her death.                                              Exit
her father, and his good will obtained. Name the day of marriage,
her folly, for I will be horribly in love with her. I may chance
her hands?
her love?
her reputation, her marriage vow, and a thousand other her
her; or, in sooth, I would Master Fenton had her; I will
here comes Doctor Caius.
here comes one in haste.
here is to bring you together! Sure, one of you does not
here; now he shall see his own foolery.
herself that she should be so immodest to write to one that she
herself; I had other things to have spoken with her too,
hide it.
him bear it for a difference between himself and his horse; for
him enough.
him here as melancholy as a lodge in a warren. I told him, and I
him if he came.
him like the witch of Brainford.
him my waiting gentlewoman? He that hath a beard is more than a
him not strike the old woman.
him with any further revenge?
him, I will search impossible places. Though what I am I
him.
him. I'll make him dance. Will you go, gentles?
him; if the devil have him not in fee-simple, with fine and
him; quickly, dispatch.                                 Exit
him?
him?
him? Shall I put him into the basket again?
himself; which the ladies cannot abide. How answer you that?
hinds, were call'd forth by their mistress to carry me in
his bird's nest.
his chamber; I'll be so bold as stay, sir, till she come down;
his companion? Is there no young squarer now that will make a
his five wits went halting off, and now is the whole man govern'd
his honour in marrying the renowned Claudio (whose estimation do
his name.
his own gravity and patience that ever you saw.
his own respect.
his pen and inkhorn to the jail. We are now to examination these
his purse, such a man would win any woman in the world--if 'a
his rites.
his tongue speaks.
his villany; for he both pleases men and angers them, and then
his wife seems to me well-favour'd. I will use her as the
his wife; he will not be jealous; I will rather trust a Fleming
hold it a sin to match in my kinred.
hold one an opinion of another's dotage, and no such matter.
holiday, he smells April and May; he will carry 't, he will
home indeed?
honest a omans as I will desires among five thousand, and five
honest knaveries.               Exeunt PAGE, FORD, and EVANS
honestly.
honourable in a beggar? Is not your lord honourable without
horns. O powerful love! that in some respects makes a
horses; the Duke himself will be to-morrow at court, and
hose and leaves off his wit!
hose. I'll go hide me.
house the hour she appointed me.
house.
householder; and which is more, as pretty a piece of flesh as any
how giddily 'a turns about all the hot-bloods between fourteen
how have you deceiv'd me! Look, here is a basket; if he be
how near the god drew to the complexion of a goose! A
hujus. Well, what is your accusative case?
humidity, this gross wat'ry pumpion; we'll teach him to
hundred too.
hurts nobody.' 'Nay,' said I, 'the gentleman is wise.' 'Certain,'
husband had him of. What do you call your knight's
husband is deceived, or Sir John.
husband is this morning gone a-birding; I have received from
husband now?
husband were dead; I'll speak it before the best lord, I
husband, Master Brook, dwelling in a continual 'larum of
husband.
husbands, if a maid could come by them.
hypocrite once, you must be look'd to.
hypocrite, but prays from his heart.
i' th' litter; and you may know by my size that I have
if he love her not, and she will die ere she make her love known,
if it be my luck, so; if not, happy man be his dole! They
if my wind were but long enough to say my prayers,
if you saw him.
ignorance itself is a plummet o'er me; use me as you will.
ill advantage of his absence. You are undone.
ill bestowed!
imaginations of your own heart; this is jealousies.
impossible conveyance upon me that I stood like a man at a mark,
in Datchet Mead, and there empty it in the muddy ditch
in Datchet Mead; quickly, come.
in France.
in despite of the teeth of all rhyme and reason, that they
in eight and six.
in good time. If the Prince be too important, tell him there is
in his age. Shall quips and sentences and these paper bullets of
in love. Nay, by'r lady, I am not such a fool to think what I
in nativity, chance, or death. Away.
in one Mistress Page, gives intelligence of Ford's approach;
in the commonwealth.
in the figure of a lamb the feats of a lion. He hath indeed
in the old church window, sometime like the shaven Hercules in
in the shape of a woman; for in the shape of man, Master
in the stealer.
in the wane; but yet, in courtesy, in all reason, we must stay
in, to make all split.
inclination; he gives her folly motion and advantage; and
indeed! I ne'er made my will yet, I thank heaven; I am not
indeed.
infernal Ate in good apparel. I would to God some scholar would
infinite of thought.
intelligence is true; my jealousy is reasonable.
is Brook.
is already in snuff.
is at my house. He cannot scape me; 'tis impossible he
is in Messina, and one that knows the law, go to! and a rich
is more than a youth is not for me; and he that is less than a
is never sad but when she sleeps, and not ever sad then; for I
is not here.
is now with the Doctor at the dean'ry, and there married.
is, I do not like her.
is, beyond our element. We know nothing. Come down, you
is, to bring Signior Benedick and the Lady Beatrice into a
is, to bring the moonlight into a chamber; for, you know, Pyramus
is; and there's her thrumm'd hat, and her muffler too. Run
it a match, and I doubt not but to fashion it if you three will
it be rememb'red in his punishment. And also the watch heard them
it good how you dare, with what you dare, and when you dare. Do
it in?
it is all the wealth that he hath left to be known a reasonable
it is impossible you should take true root but by the fair
it is proved already that you are little better than false
it not grieve a woman to be overmaster'd with a piece of valiant
it of me with false dice; therefore your Grace may well say I
it shall hang like a meteor o'er the cuckold's horns. Master
it that says I love not you.
it wants matter to prevent so gross, o'er-reaching as this?
it, pluck off the bull's horns and set them in my forehead, and
it--a double heart for his single one. Marry, once before he won
it.
it. How now, whither bear you this?
it. I will only be bold with Benedick for his company; for, from
it. Wonder not till further warrant. Go but with me to-night, you
jealous wittolly knave hath masses of money; for the which
jealousy till now.
jealousy! Eleven o'clock the hour. I will prevent this, detect
jealousy, comes me in the instant of our, encounter, after
jealousy? My wife hath sent to him; the hour is fix'd;
joiner, you, the lion's part. And, I hope, here is a play fitted.
jointure.
joy in him; even so much that joy could not show itself modest
judge of my merit.
just so many strange dishes. May I be so converted and see with
keep your counsel.
key of the cuckoldly rogue's coffer; and there's my harvest-home.
kill'd a sweet and innocent lady. For my Lord Lackbeard there, he
killing.
king, I could find in my heart to bestow it all of your worship.
kissing-comfits, and snow eringoes; let there come a tempest
knave, her husband, will be forth. Come you to me at
knaves, and it will go near to be thought so shortly. How answer
knew would flout her. 'I measure him,' says she, 'by my own
knife's naught. Shall I not find a woodcock too?
know how I speed; and the conclusion shall be crowned
know not, but methinks you look with your eyes as other women do.
know on't; would I were hang'd, la, else!
know one another.
know turtles from jays.
know. If you will follow me, I will show you enough; and when you
knowing what they do!
known to you why I have done this. Come, wife, come,
lady is fair--'tis a truth, I can bear them witness; and virtuous
lady.
lady.
lantern, and say he comes to disfigure or to present the person
largely to many to know what she would have given;
lastly, they have belied a lady; thirdly, they have verified
laughing-stocks to other men's humours; I desire you in
learning.
left him.
less likelihood than to see me at her chamber window, hear me
let me be vilely painted, and in such great letters as they write
let me see 't! I'll in, I'll in; follow your friend's counsel;
let not him that plays the lion pare his nails, for they shall
liberty, if I tell you of it; for he swears he'll turn me away.
like not when a oman has a great peard; I spy a great peard
like the case!
lime-kiln.
lisping hawthorn-buds that come like women in men's
list; nor I list not to think what I can; nor indeed I cannot
live a bachelor.
lock hanging by it, and borrows money in God's name, the which he
lock.
look some linen for your head.
look'd for Master Caius, that calls himself Doctor of
lords, de gentlemen, my patients.
lose my parson, my priest, my Sir Hugh? No; he gives me
lousy knave, mine host.
love him, I should.'
love may transform me to an oyster; but I'll take my oath on it,
love of Beatrice.
love that which my friend hates.
love thee against my will.
love, or that you will be in love, or that you can be in love.
love.
love. Prove that ever I lose more blood with love than I will get
loved you.
lutestring, and now govern'd by stops.
made in your best coat, Master Ford. This 'tis to be
make grand preparation for a Duke de Jamany. By my
man and a lion.
man here; but 'tis most certain your husband's coming,
man in his humour.
man may hear this show'r sing in the wind. And Falstaff's
man to your husband, to give him such cause of suspicion!
man! What? bear her in hand until they come to take hands, and
man'?
man's disposition is able to bear.
man's heart good to hear me; I will roar that I will make the
man, I am not for him. Therefore I will even take sixpence in
man, sir, and his wits are not so blunt as, God help, I would
man. An two men ride of a horse, one must ride behind. An honest
man. Here's his dry hand up and down. You are he, you are he!
many hath he kill'd? For indeed I promised to eat all of his
market place.
marriage as to show a child his new coat and forbid him to wear
marriage, and you shall recount their particular duties
marriage?
marriage? I think you would have me say, 'saving your reverence,
married her daughter.
married un garcon, a boy; un paysan, by gar, a boy; it is
married, that we may lighten our own hearts and our wives' heels.
married; this 'tis to have linen and buck-baskets! Well, I will
marry, I will think nothing to any purpose that the world can say
marvellous hairy about the face; and I am such a tender ass, if
massy as his club?
master had Mistress Anne; or I would Master Slender had
master knew she was Margaret; and partly by his oaths, which
master; be not afraid.
masters! Help!
matter; better a little chiding than a great deal of
may as soon as any.
may say he is wise, for either he avoids them with great
me go with that I came for, which is, with knowing what hath
me in any dishonesty.
me of the carriage.
me of the fashion?
me patience!'
me right, or I will protest your cowardice. You have kill'd a
me tame. If I have horns to make one mad, let the proverb
me to say I loved nothing so well as you. But believe me not; and
me to seek.
me, for I am slow of study.
me, lads of peace; follow, follow, follow.
me. What say you to't, Sir John?
me; I'll. tell you all, Master Brook. Since I pluck'd geese,
measure in everything, and so dance out the answer. For, hear me,
measure, and a cinque-pace: the first suit is hot and hasty like
meddle or make with them, why, the more your honesty.
meet her, as he was appointed, next morning at the temple, and
meet.
meet. I will never take you for my love again; but I will
meeting may be wish'd, God prohibit it! Come, neighbour.
melancholies I am! I will knog his urinals about his knave's
melancholy, and would fain have it beaten away. Wilt thou use thy
melancholy; and then there's a partridge wing saved, for the fool
men.
merry. Yea, but so I am apt to do myself wrong. I am not so
methinks his flesh is punish'd; he shall have no desires.
methought I had, but man is but a patch'd fool, if he will offer
mettle enough in thee to kill care.
midnight, at Herne's oak, and you shall see wonders.
might have cudgell'd thee out of thy single life, to make thee a
might slip away ere he came. But what make you here?
military. Art thou there? It is thine host, thine Ephesian, calls.
mince.                                     Exit MRS. QUICKLY
mischief. I had as live have heard the night raven, come what
modest, as a measure, full of state and ancientry; and then comes
modestly examine himself to see how much he is unworthy so good a
money go before, all ways do lie open.
money than I'll speak of.
money; next, give me your hand; and last, as I am a gentleman,
moonshine, find out moonshine.
more of thy old body than I have done. Will they yet look
more tricks with Falstaff. His dissolute disease will scarce
more, because they say 'Od's nouns.'
mortifying mischief. I cannot hide what I am: I must be sad when
most unpitifully methought.
mother's son, and rehearse your parts. Pyramus, you begin; when
mountain of affection th' one with th' other. I would fain have
much of your time in exchange of it as to lay an amiable
much on her; followed her with a doting observance;
much overborne her that my daughter is sometime afeard she will
mummy.
must be peopled. When I said I would die a bachelor, I did not
must be requited. I hear how I am censur'd. They say I will bear
must go with me, Master Doctor.
must let you understand I think myself in better plight for
must wear it one way, for the Prince hath got your Hero.
my allegiance! he is in love. With who? Now that is your Grace's
my boy!
my cage. If I had my mouth, I would bite; if I had my liberty, I
my chambers are honourible. Fie, privacy, fie!
my coffers ransack'd, my reputation gnawn at; and I shall
my daughter, she is, by this, Doctor Caius' wife.
my desires had instance and argument to commend themselves;
my hair do but tickle me I must scratch.
my husband he is now here; and hath drawn him and the
my mind.
my sins at the day of judgment!
my soul!                                             [Sings]
my substance; if he take her, let him take her simply; the
my troth, it is no addition to her wit, nor no great argument of
my wife, Master Doctor, is for you altogether.
my wife, be reveng'd on Falstaff, and laugh at Page.
myself proudly if I perceive the love come from her. They say too
myself, who, I myself will bear witness, is praiseworthy. And now
name her, child, if she be a whore.
name his name, and tell them plainly he is Snug the joiner.
name is Ford.
name, honest gentleman?
name, sirrah?
name.
napkins, that, Master Brook, there was the rankest compound
near me; noble, or not I for an angel; of good discourse, an
near to make a man look sad.
need of such vanity. You are thought here to be the most
neighbour!
neighbours will not make them friends. Nay, I can gleek upon
never answer a calf when he bleats.
never think to marry. I must not seem proud. Happy are they that
news that you yet dreamt not of.
next is 'Most fair Pyramus.' Heigh-ho! Peter Quince! Flute, the
niece your daughter and meant to acknowledge it this night in a
night to Messina.
night.
night. Ford's a knave, and I will aggravate his style; thou,
night; you shall know how I speed.
no worse, if imagination amend them.
none; and the fine is (for the which I may go the finer), I will
not Anne Page; by gar, I am cozened.
not Anne, but a postmaster's boy.
not be conjoined, I charge you on your souls to utter it.
not be in that mind.
not look exceeding narrowly to thee.
not of him in the court. Let me speak with the gentlemen;
not only receive this villainous wrong, but stand under the
not present itself; she is too bright to be look'd against.
not show his face.
not stay for him to kill him? Have I not, at de place I did
not that way.
not then the better answer, You may say they are not the men you
not to alter me.
not to fear, not to tremble. My life for yours! If you think I
not what a deformed thief this fashion is?
not.
not; yet I wrong him to call him poor; they say the
note. There is no hiding you in the house.
nothing else, nor that well neither.
nothing in the world at his book; I pray you ask him some
nothing, and the other too like my lady's eldest son, evermore
now is Cupid a child of conscience; he makes restitution.
now she's going to my wife, and Falstaff's boy with her. A
now with, me; but she's gone.
numbers. I find here that Don Pedro hath bestowed much honour on
nurse and bid her still it.
o'ernight and send her home again without a husband.
oak, with obscur'd lights; which, at the very instant of
oats. Methinks I have a great desire to a bottle of hay. Good
obey this medicine.
obtain'd her, give her to Count Claudio.
occasion.
of Falstaff's being here, for I never saw him so gross in his
of Maidenhead, of Colebrook, of horses and money. I tell you for
of Moonshine. Then there is another thing: we must have a wall in
of an intended marriage.
of any reasonable stature, he may creep in here; and throw
of elder? Ha! is he dead, bully stale? Is he dead?
of fiends. But cuckold! Wittol! Cuckold! the devil himself
of frieze? 'Tis time I were chok'd with a piece of
of him.
of his hat; it ever changes with the next block.
of his own virtues, as I am to myself. So much for praising
of mind! I shall be glad if he have deceived me. How
of mine come to town tells me there is three
of money, which must be paid to Master Brook; his horses
of my purpose: you are a gentleman of excellent
of no having: he kept company with the wild Prince and
of provocation, I will shelter me here.      [Embracing her]
of sack finely.
of sleep come upon me.
of souls, and you a curer of bodies; if you should fight,
of the court how I have been transformed, and how my
of the peace, if I see a sword out, my finger itches to make
of their wits, they would have no more discretion but to hang us;
of this knave-Ford, on whom to-night I will be revenged,
of this walk, and my horns I bequeath your husbands. Am
of villainous smell that ever offended nostril.
of weight chances, call up me. Keep your fellows' counsels and
of what complexion soever; and so buffets himself on the
of you.
of your house. I promise you your kindred hath made my eyes water
offend nobody. Is there any harm in 'the heavier for a husband'?
office, to be no true man; and for such kind of men, the less you
officers; but truly, for mine own part, if I were as tedious as a
oil that's in me should set hell on fire; he would never else
old cuckold with horns on his head, and say 'Get you to heaven,
old man and no honester than I.
old men without teeth.
old signs. 'A brushes his hat o' mornings. What should that bode?
on Monday night which he forswore on Tuesday morning. There's a
on Signior Benedick, whom she hath in all outward behaviours
on her shoulders for all Messina, as like him as she is.
on the gown the while.                         Exit FALSTAFF
on thy choler; go about the fields with me through Frogmore;
one according to his cue.
one visor remains.
one woman, one woman shall not come in my grace. Rich she shall
one. Though we are justices, and doctors, and churchmen,
one.' 'No,' said I, 'a great wit.' 'Right,' says she, 'a great
onions nor garlic, for we are to utter sweet breath; and I do not
only bought many presents to give her, but have given
or I will subscribe him a coward. And I pray thee now tell me,
or her budget? The white will decipher her well enough.
or nothing.
or other shall scape a predestinate scratch'd face.
or three lords and ladies more married. If our sport had gone
orange-tawny beard, your purple-in-grain beard, or your
otherwise.
our answer.
out at her mistress' chamber window, bids me a thousand times
out ere he come?
out of my house yesterday in this basket. Why may not
out of your company.
over and over as my poor self in love. Marry, I cannot show it in
over it; for in most comely truth thou deservest it.
overflown with a honey-bag, signior. Where's Mounsieur
overthrow. If I can cross him any way, I bless myself every way.
own, that I may pass with a reproof the easier, sith you
pardon me.
part. Mark how short his answer is: With Hero, Leonato's short
parted their fathers. Will it please you to see the Epilogue, or
parts with Beatrice, and then the two bears will not bite one
pass'd between you and Claudio.
passion ends the play.
peasant, and thou shalt lie with his wife. Come to me soon at
peradventure, not marked or not laugh'd at, strikes him into
perfume.
piety, as shall be prov'd upon thee by good witness. I am a wise
pitch will be defil'd. The most peaceable way for you, if you do
place appointed. I'll be judgment by mine host of the
places she enlargeth her mirth so far that there is shrewd
plague could have come after it.
plain holy thistle. You may think perchance that I think you are
plaintiff here, the offender, did call me ass. I beseech you let
plaster, or some loam, or some rough-cast about him, to signify
play Pyramus.
play is preferr'd. In any case, let Thisby have clean linen; and
play wants. I pray you, fail me not.
play'd truant, and whipp'd top, I knew not what 'twas to
please God. Ha, the Prince and Monsieur Love! I will hide me in
pleasure us.
politic? am I subtle? am I a Machiavel? Shall I lose my
poor lady worse.
poor old man; but I came from her, Master Brook, like a
poor old woman. That same knave Ford, her husband, hath
poor ones may make what price they will.
poor woman.
porter.
possessed by my master Don John, saw afar off in the orchard this
potatoes; let it thunder to the tune of Greensleeves, hail
practice. Be cunning in the working this, and thy fee is a
pray his Pible well dat he is no come; by gar, Jack Rugby,
pray you let me go.
pray you, let none of your people stir me; I have an exposition
preparation overthrown.
prepared for an answer, if peradventure this be true. Go you and
presence, ha' ta'en a couple of as arrant knaves as any in
present time by the top and instantly break with you of it.
proclaim myself what I am; I will now take the lecher; he
profess requital to a hair's breadth; not only, Mistress Ford, in
prologue; and let the prologue seem to say we will do no harm
promise.
pronouns.
protest.
prove a notable argument.
prove an ass.
provided this music?
punishment?
punishments for him. Strike up, pipers!
punto, thy stock, thy reverse, thy distance, thy montant.
purpose; turn'd my daughter into green; and, indeed, she
putter.
quae's, and your quod's, you must be preeches. Go your
qualities.
questions in his accidence.
quiet in hell as in a sanctuary; and people sin upon purpose,
rain, and I will, like a true drunkard, utter all to thee.
rancour--O God, that I were a man! I would eat his heart in the
rascals, there's a knot, a ging, a pack, a conspiracy
rather than a mischief.
read the names of the actors; and so grow to a point.
ready here hard by in the brew-house; and when I suddenly
ready to crack with impatience. Who says this is improvident
received wrong by some person, is at most odds with
recorder- a sound, but not in government.
recover'd the most dangerous piece of lechery that ever was known
recovery, he will never, I think, in the way of waste,
reformed Signior Leonato of the matter. And, masters, do not
rehearsal. This green plot shall be our stage, this hawthorn
remember that I am an ass. Though it be not written down, yet
renowned French physician.
reputation, who is thus like to be cozen'd with the semblance of
reputed. It is the base (though bitter) disposition of Beatrice
rest of their company from their sport, to make another
reverence.
reverent than one tipp'd with horn.
rheumatic day!
rhyme. I have tried. I can find out no rhyme to 'lady' but 'baby'
rings and the widow weeps.
rod he might have bestowed on you, who, as I take it, have stol'n
room, comes me the Prince and Claudio, hand in hand in sad
royally entertain'd by Leonato, and I can give you intelligence
rut-time, Jove, or who can blame me to piss my tallow?
sack be the issue. Come, lay their swords to pawn. Follow
sad. Get thee a wife, get thee a wife! There is no staff more
sad?
said she, a wise gentleman.' 'Nay,' said I, 'he hath the
said thou hadst a fine wit: 'True,' said she, 'a fine little
sake! But manhood is melted into cursies, valour into compliment,
same cowardly giant-like ox-beef hath devour'd many a gentleman
same strain were in the same distress.
saw me court Margaret in Hero's garments; how you disgrac'd her
say so.
say that though she appear honest to me, yet in other
say they be fled. Germans are honest men.
say! Come, come forth; behold what honest clothes you
say, 'Any pains that I take for you is as easy as thanks.' If I
saying thus, or to the same defect: 'Ladies,' or 'Fair ladies, I
says is here now in the house, by your consent, to take an
scratch. I must to the barber's, mounsieur; for methinks I am
search'd it; but Fate, ordaining he should be a cuckold,
search, seek, find out. I'll warrant we'll unkennel the fox.
search.                        Exeunt EVANS, PAGE, and CAIUS
search; there I shall find Falstaff. I shall be rather prais'd
season for your own harvest.
see a noise that he heard, and is to come again.
see but the issue of my jealousy; if I cry out thus upon no
see how thine eye would emulate the diamond; thou hast
see the light of our fairies. Remember, son Slender, my daughter.
see! Well said, i' faith, neighbour Verges. Well, God's a good
seeing her go thorough the streets, to know, sir, whether one
seem'd ever to abhor.
seems not in him by some large jests he will make. Well, I am
semi-circled farthingale. I see what thou wert, if Fortune
send forth to bleaching.
senseless and fit man for the constable of the watch. Therefore
sensible Benedick's head?
sent your worship a moming's draught of sack.
serve heaven well, that you are so cross'd.
set down our excommunication, and meet me at the jail.
seven, two tree hours for him, and he is no come.
sevennight; and a time too brief too, to have all things answer
shall Pyramus and Thisby whisper.
shall a man take you to go in the song?
shall appear in me.
shall hear how things go, and, I warrant, to your content.
shall one day find it.
shall see her chamber window ent'red, even the night before her
shall speak for himself.
sham'd, y'are overthrown, y'are undone for ever.
shame her.
shame me.
shame. The lady is dead upon mine and my master's false
shape; he cannot abide the old woman of Brainford; he
she has been too long a-talking of), the lady is disloyal.
she plots, then she ruminates, then she devises; and what
she were worse; think you of a worse title, and I will fit her to
she'll be up twenty times a night, and there will she sit in her
she, 'that have so oft encount'red him with scorn, write to him
ship-tire, the tire-valiant, or any tire of Venetian admittance.
should be so rich; for when rich villains have need of poor ones,
should be terrors in him, that he should not come;
should be worthy, is the opinion that fire cannot melt out of me.
should have been a pander. Over and above that you have
should; he cannot creep into a halfpenny purse nor into
shoulders, and have given ourselves without scruple to hell,
show well outward. The Prince and Count Claudio, walking in a
show you a monster. Master Doctor, you shall go; so shall
show. Let us send her to call him in to dinner.
side of care. My cousin tells him in his ear that he is in her
siege to the honesty of this Ford's wife; use your art of
sing it in the latter end of a play, before the Duke.
sir?
slander the Lady Hero; how you were brought into the orchard and
slandered, scorned, dishonoured my kinswoman? O that I were a
smock till she have writ a sheet of paper. My daughter tells us
snowballs for pills to cool the reins. Call her in.
so I commit you--
so.
so.
so. Give me thy hand, celestial; so. Boys of art, I have
soldiers in the reechy painting, sometime like god Bel's priests
some conveyance; in the house you cannot hide him. O,
some excellent music; for to-morrow night we would have it at the
some marks of love in her.
some occasion may detain us longer. I dare swear he is no
sometime guarded with fragments, and the guards are but slightly
sorry for your niece. Shall we go seek Benedick and tell him of
soul, i' faith, sir, by my troth he is, as ever broke bread; but
soul-curer and body-curer.
speak as small as you will.
speak like an Anthropophaginian unto thee. Knock, I say.
speciously one of them; Mistress Ford, good heart, is beaten
spend it; spend more; spend all I have; only give me so
spirit had been invincible against all assaults of affection.
spirit, what devil suggests this imagination? I would not ha'
spirit; for I should flout him if he writ to me. Yea, though I
spite it for my sake, I will spite it for yours, for I will never
spread yourselves.
stag; and the fattest, I think, i' th' forest. Send me a cool
staggering, take this basket on your shoulders. That done,
stairs?
standing-bed and truckle-bed; 'tis painted about with the
stare him out of his wits; I will awe him with my cudgel;
statutes, he may stay him! Marry, not without the Prince be
stile, this way.
stinking clothes that fretted in their own grease. Think of that
stol'n hence, and left me asleep! I have had a most rare vision.
stole your meat, and you'll beat the post.
stomach, and wait for no man's leisure; sleep when I am drowsy,
stomach, he shall fall in love with Beatrice. If we can do this,
story of the Prodigal, fresh and new. Go, knock and can; he'll
strange that sheep's guts should hale souls out of men's bodies?
strange?
subjects. You shall also make no noise in the streets; for for
subscrib'd for Cupid and challeng'd him at the burbolt. I pray
such a man.
such a sickly creature, I give heaven praise.
suddenly died. Master Constable, let these men be bound and
suffer'd to bring this woman to evil for your good. Being
suffer'd, I think to repay that money will be a biting
sufferance. I see you are obsequious in your love, and I
sure.
swears she's a witch, forbade her my house, and hath
sweet lady, and her death shall fall heavy on you. Let me hear
sweet-fac'd man; a proper man, as one shall see in a summer's
swells a man; and what a thing should I have been when
swing'd me. If I did not think it had been Anne Page,
swore he would never marry; and yet now in despite of his heart
sworn brother.
taber.
take a thief, is to let him show himself what he is, and steal
tale.
talk of one Deformed. They say he wears a key in his ear, and a
talk themselves mad.
talk through the chink of a wall.
tattling.
taught me more wit than ever I learn'd before in my life;
taught me to say this:
taunt of one that makes fritters of English? This is enough
teaches him to hick and to hack, which they'll do fast
tell Benedick of it and hear what 'a will say.
tell her of it.                              [Exit Antonio.]
tell him I will not fail him at supper; for indeed he hath made
tell me, how doth your cousin?
tell you for good will. Adieu.                          Exit
ten and eleven; for at that time the jealous rascally
terms.
th' church, I would have swing'd him, or he should have
than a man swear he loves me.
than she is, she were unhandsome, and being no other but as she
than to joy at weeping!
thank me. If it had been painful, I would not have come.
thanks than you took pains to thank me.' That's as much as to
that Don John had made, away went Claudio enrag'd; swore he would
that Falstaff is there. I will go.
that I have lost my edifice by mistaking the place where
that I have purchased at an infinite rate, and that hath
that I love him?'"
that could but niggardly give me sight of her; not
that ever the devil could have made you our delight?
that hath two gowns and everything handsome about him. Bring him
that he hath to strange disguises; as to be a Dutchman to-day, a
that my Lady Beatrice should know me, and not know me! The
that my admirable dexterity of wit, my counterfeiting the
that point.
that puts the world into her person and so gives me out. Well,
that she loves him with an enraged affection. It is past the
that she will rather die than give any sign of affection. I did
that thou art like to be my kinsman, live unbruis'd, and love my
that way, for it is said, 'God sends a curst cow short horns,'
that?
the Lady Hero's gentlewoman, by the name of Hero. She leans me
the Park. I pray you pardon me; I will hereafter make
the Prince's own person. If you meet the Prince in the night,
the Prince, Claudio and my master, planted and placed and
the Welsh devil, Hugh?
the age is in, the wit is out.' God help us! it is a world to
the arbour.                                         [Hides.]
the arras.
the basket again, to meet him at the door with it as they
the basket. Go up; I'll bring linen for him straight.   Exit
the brain awe a man from the career of his humour? No, the world
the bush. Shall it be so?
the city, we shall be dogg'd with company, and our devices known.
the crown of his head to the sole of his foot, he is all mirth.
the deanery, and dispatch it quickly. Go before into the
the devil guide his cudgel afterwards!
the favour of Margaret, the waiting gentlewoman to Hero.
the finest mad devil of jealousy in him, Master Brook, that
the fire too. Come, talk not of her. You shall find her the
the flight, and my uncle's fool, reading the challenge,
the goose carries not the fox. It is well. Leave it to his
the great chamber; for Pyramus and Thisby, says the story, did
the hell of having a false woman! My bed shall be abus'd,
the hip upward, no doublet. Unless he have a fancy to this
the hour, Master Brook.
the jealous fool to her husband! I suspect without cause,
the jest how my father stole two geese out of a pen, good
the last time he search'd for him, in a basket; protests to
the match is made. Would any man have thought this? See
the meantime I will so fashion the matter that Hero shall be
the moon; I, the Man i' th' Moon; this thorn-bush, my thorn-bush;
the more better assurance, tell them that I Pyramus am not
the mother of fools. I have brought Count Claudio, whom you sent
the name of foul clothes to Datchet Lane; they took me on
the officers in Windsor, to search for a gentleman that he
the only love-gods. Go in with me, and I will tell you my drift.
the orchard.
the period of my ambition. O this blessed hour!
the prologue of our comedy; and at his heels a rabble of his
the proverbs and the noverbs. Give me thy hand, terrestrial;
the remembrance of such places, and goes to them by his
the right arched beauty of the brow that becomes the
the sadness is without limit.
the season too, it shall appear.  [Exeunt SERVANTS with
the simple office of love, but in all the accoutrement,
the smirch'd worm-eaten tapestry, where his codpiece seems as
the sons of women, Master Page.
the star.
the stop. A good moral, my lord: it is not enough to speak, but
the stuffing--well, we are all mortal.
the third time; I hope good luck lies in odd numbers.
the time.
the town, by moonlight; there will we rehearse; for if we meet in
the watch to babble and to talk is most tolerable, and not to be
the woollen!
the wrong to mistrust any, I will do myself the right to trust
thee to disgrace her.
thee.
thee.
thee; help me away.-Let me creep in here; I'll never-
their hearts but they will effect. God be prais'd for my
their limbs whole and hack our English.
their shoulders; met the jealous knave their master in the
them both, Master Parson?
them, but chiefly by my villany, which did confirm any slander
them, in a slough of mire; and set spurs and away, like
them. But for which of my good parts did you first suffer love
then make sport at me, then let me be your jest; I deserve
then torture my wife, pluck the borrowed veil of modesty
then with public accusation, uncover'd slander, unmitigated
then, to be stopp'd in, like a strong distillation, with
there a wise woman with thee?
there is a great coil to-night. Adieu. Be vigitant, I beseech
there is not a more fearful wild-fowl than your lion living; and
there were no living near her; she would infect to the North
there's one meaning well suited.
there's something extra-ordinary in thee. Come, I cannot
there, before the whole congregation, shame her with what he saw
these eyes? I cannot tell; I think not. I will not be sworn but
these men's bills.
these quondam carpet-mongers, whose names yet run smoothly in the
they are going to meet him.
they laugh at him and beat him. I am sure he is in the fleet.
they may pass for excellent men. Here come two noble beasts in, a
they shall hear I am not afraid.                     [Sings]
they speak English?
they think in their hearts they may effect, they will break
they would have hang'd him; and I pray God his bad voice bode no
thick-pleached alley in mine orchard, were thus much overheard by
thing of naught.
thing; I am a man as other men are.' And there, indeed, let him
things in hand, Master Brook! Follow.                 Exeunt
think I should live till I were married.
think I told him true, that your Grace had got the good will of
think he holds you well and in dearness of heart hath holp to
think on't, Jove, a foul fault! When gods have hot backs
think what a man is. Let her consider his frailty, and then
think, if I would think my heart out of thinking, that you are in
thinking I had been myself, that I was the Prince's jester, that
thinking? Sure, they sleep; he hath no use of them. Why,
this bath, when I was more than half-stew'd in grease, like
this boy will carry a letter twenty mile as easy as a cannon
this morning secretly stol'n away. Hero was in this manner
this seven year; 'a goes up and down like a gentleman. I remember
this without trial. Offer them instances; which shall bear no
this wrong. Terms! names! Amaimon sounds well; Lucifer,
this young lady, and I off'red him my company to a willow tree,
this.
thistle; and, good mounsieur, bring me the honey-bag. Do not fret
those that are so wash'd. How much better is it to weep at joy
thou be so shrewd of thy tongue.
thou lik'st her.
though I be but a poor man, I am glad to hear it.
though now a man of peace.
thought browner; and your gown's a most rare fashion, i' faith.
thousand ducats.
threat'ned to beat her.
three German devils, three Doctor Faustuses.
through the lion's neck; and he himself must speak through,
throwing him into the water will do him a benefit.
thrown into the ford; I have my belly full of ford.
thrust thy neck into a yoke, wear the print of it and sigh away
thus cramm'd in the basket, a couple of Ford's knaves, his
thus declined: Singulariter, nominativo; hic, haec, hoc.
thus:
thus?
thy fat woman. Let her descend, bully, let her descend;
thy foe were, not Nature, thy friend. Come, thou canst not
thy foot would give an excellent motion to thy gait in a
till he have made an oyster of me he shall never make me such a
time.                                                Exeunt.
times in the thought they were not fairies; and yet the
to Master Peascod, your father. Good Master Peaseblossom, I shall
to be blamed. Marry, if he that writ it had played Pyramus, and
to be the decay of lust and late-walking through the realm.
to call a prince's brother villain.
to dinner: besides your cheer, you shall have sport; I will
to discharge Pyramus but he.
to disdain if you come in her presence.
to health! I humbly give you leave to depart; and if a merry
to hear a Bergomask dance between two of our company?
to look out at her lady's chamber window.
to say what methought I had. The eye of man hath not heard, the
to see thee here, to see thee there; to see thee pass thy
to see this the very night before the intended wedding (for in
to speak true.
to strike at me, that your arrow hath glanc'd.
to the scrip.
to this his distemper he is in now. I am glad the fat knight
to woo her in good English.
to write and read comes by nature.
to you, it is thought you are false knaves.
to you, which these hobby-horses must not hear.
to your heart. It is the only thing for a qualm.
to-morrow night; and meet me in the palace wood, a mile without
to-morrow, in the congregation where I should wed, there will I
toasted cheese.
together now-a-days. The more the pity that some honest
together to be revenge on this same scall, scurvy, cogging
together transshape thy particular virtues. Yet at last she
tongue to conceive, nor his heart to report, what my dream was. I
tongues.' 'That I believe' said she, 'for he swore a thing to me
tonight at my house, where I will desire thee to laugh at my
too brown for a fair praise, and too little for a great praise.
too late. Fie, fie, fie! cuckold! cuckold! cuckold!     Exit
too much.
too, howsoever he hath had intelligence.
took a boy for a girl. If I had been married to him, for all
took them for.
tragedy. And so it is, truly; and very notably discharg'd. But
trail, never trust me when I open again.
transform me to a piece of cheese!
transformation hath been wash'd and cudgell'd, they
trembling.
trib.                                                 Exeunt
trot, dere is no duke that the court is know to come; I
troth, I am sick.
trudge with it in all haste, and carry it among the whitsters
true judgment? or would you have me speak after my custom, as
truly touch'd with love. If he be sad, he wants money.
turning.
uncape.
uncle.
under Saturn) goest about to apply a moral medicine to a
under his muffler.
under the profession of fortune-telling. She works by
undergoes my challenge; and either I must shortly hear from him
understood. What's your offence?
undone. Fly, run, hue and cry, villain; I am undone.
unjust things; and to conclude, they are lying knaves.
unkiss'd.
up a rod, as being worthy to be whipt.
up, I likewise give her most humble thanks; but that I will have
up, Sir John.
upon that the Prince should woo Hero for himself, and having
upon the church bench till two, and then all to bed.
us.
usurer's chain? or under your arm, like a lieutenant's scarf? You
valour, and confirm'd honesty. I will teach you how to humour
venturing.
very eyes. What your wisdoms could not discover, these shallow
very possible he'll scorn it; for the man (as you know all) hath
very valiant trencherman; he hath an excellent stomach.
via!
vice, and they are dangerous weapons for maids.
villain.
virtues.
vlouting-stogs, and 'tis not convenient you should be
voyage with him to the devil?
walk my ambling gelding, than my wife with herself. Then
wall; and let him hold his fingers thus, and through that cranny
want none. I shall be with her, I may tell you, by her own
war betwixt Signior Benedick and her. They never meet but there's
war-like, courtlike, and learned preparations.
was a miracle to scape suffocation. And in the height of
was a villain.
was like to be apprehended for the witch of Brainford. But
was not born under a rhyming planet, nor cannot woo in festival
was shelvy and shallow-a death that I abhor; for the water
watchings.
water. Mistress Ford desires you to come suddenly.
water; for my belly's as cold as if I had swallow'd
way then to unfool me again? Set down the basket, villain!
way.
way; old Windsor way, and every way but the town way.
ways and play; go.
we had embrac'd, kiss'd, protested, and, as it were, spoke
we have ten proofs to one that blood hath the victory. I am sorry
we ought to look to't.
we shall stay here at the least a month, and he heartly prays
wealth I have waits on my consent, and my consent goes
wear nothing handsome about him. In brief, since I do purpose to
weather that you make yourself. It is needful that you frame the
wedding day. If you love her then, to-morrow wed her. But it
weigh more reasons in her balance. Nay, an you be a cursing
welcome to me, that o'erflows such liquor. Ah, ha! Mistress
well; Barbason, well; yet they are devils' additions, the names
well; another virtuous, yet I am well; but till all graces be in
went I for foul clothes. But mark the sequel, Master
were fairies. See now how wit may be made a Jack-a-Lent
what I seek, show no colour for my extremity; let me for
what shall poor men do? For me, I am here a Windsor
what they can; I will walk up and down here, and will sing, that
what's their offence; sixth and lastly, why they are committed;
what's to be done?
when 'tis upon ill employment.
when you should marry her. My villany they have upon record,
where is Anne Page; by gar, he deceive me too.
which I had rather seal with my death than repeat over to my
white and cry 'mum'; she cries 'budget,' and by that we
whiting-time-send him by your two men to Datchet
who is fled and gone. Will you come presently?
wife, that now laughs at thee. Tell her Master Slender hath
wildly, and would needs speak with you presently.
will condole in some measure. To the rest- yet my chief humour is
will eat no supper that night.
will get Peter Quince to write a ballad of this dream. It shall
will give over all.
will go on the slightest errand now to the Antipodes that you can
will keep my sides to myself, my shoulders for the fellow
will never please. First, Pyramus must draw a sword to kill
will not discover it.
will not rejoice so much at the abuse of Falstaff as he will
will shoot pointblank twelve score. He pieces out his wife's
will, after he hath laugh'd at such shallow follies in others,
will.
willing; for indeed the watch ought to offend no man, and it is
wilt quake for this shortly.
window, where we play, open; and the moon may shine in at the
wit. I will bid thee draw, as we do the minstrel--draw to
wit?
wit? Can virtue hide itself? Go to, mum you are he. Graces will
witch, you hag you; come down, I say.
witch, you hag, you. baggage, you polecat, you ronyon!
with a pernicious suitor. I thank God and my cold blood, I am of
with a whole army shooting at me. She speaks poniards, and every
with finding a bird's nest, shows it his companion, and he steals
with half Windsor at his heels, to search for such a one. I
with her?
with him. Come you hither, sirrah. A word in your ear. Sir, I say
with my butter, Parson Hugh the Welshman with my
with one green leaf on it would have answered her; my very visor
with one; so that if he have wit enough to keep himself warm, let
with our swords, and that Pyramus is not kill'd indeed; and for
with their fine wits till I were as crestfall'n as a dried pear.
with these tidings.                              Exit SIMPLE
with you.
with you. I shall discover a thing to you, wherein
with you. Your father and my uncle hath made motions;
with your enjoying her. Adieu. You shall have her, Master
without warning.
wives share damnation together. Well; I will take him,
woman down; my husband will come into the chamber.
woman, God bless us!
woman, the modest wife, the virtuous creature, that hath
womanhood and the witness of a good conscience, pursue
wont to be a follower, but now you are a leader. Whether
wood, I have enough to serve mine own turn.
wooing at Master Page's.          Exeunt SHALLOW and SLENDER
wooing, win her to consent to you; if any man may, you
word stabs. If her breath were as terrible as her terminations,
word to stay within. I like his money well. O, here he
word with you.
worship good morrow.
worship's name.
would I might never stir!-and 'tis a postmaster's boy.
would better fit your honour to change your mind.
would desires to be acquainted withal.
would do my liking. In the meantime let me be that I am, and seek
would have it appear he is.
would have you think so; but, on my allegiance--mark you this-on
would make thee my lady.
would marry.
would melt me out of my fat, drop by drop, and liquor
would not have things cool.                           Exeunt
would repent.
would speak of concerns him.
would wish you' or 'I would request you' or 'I would entreat you
wouldst make an absolute courtier, and the firm fixture of
wrongs you.
years? O that he were here to write me down an ass! But, masters,
yet I lie not. I confess nothing, nor I deny nothing. I am sorry
you amends, I warrant you.
you answer to Pyramus. You speak all your part at once, cues, and
you both.
you for yourselves?
you go against the hair of your professions. Is it not true,
you good jests of him. Pray you, uncle, tell Mistress Anne
you had appointed?
you have show'd yourself a wise physician, and Sir Hugh
you have spoken your speech, enter into that brake; and so every
you how.
you in that kind, you know your answer.
you may stay him.
you mightily hold up) to a contaminated stale, such a one as
you nearly.
you see your time, take her by the hand, away with her to
you shall, if you will, enjoy Ford's wife.
you should know my daughter by her garments?
you sing it, and I'll dance it.
you were in a consumption.
you will help to bear it, Sir John, take all, or half, for easing
you will play bare-fac'd. But, masters, here are your parts; and
you would tell me of a mess of porridge.
you'll undertake her no more.
you, Master Page; and you, Sir Hugh.
you, for out o' question you were born in a merry hour.
you, how many hath he kill'd and eaten in these wars? But how
you.
you.                           Exeunt [Dogberry and Verges].
you?
you?
young man here to school. Look where his master comes;
your Grace is too costly to wear every day. But I beseech your
your answer? This learned constable is too cunning to be
your brother's honour, who hath made this match, and his friend's
your brother, and he hath ta'en you newly into his grace, where
your conscience. And so I leave you.                   Exit.
your cousin, that she shall fall in love with Benedick; and I,
your curtsy, good mounsieur.
your daughter told us of.
your distemper in this kind for the wealth of Windsor
your father; here he comes.
your gossiplike humour. You break jests as braggards do their
your hand and kill me a red-hipp'd humble-bee on the top of a
your heart to see it. Her husband goes this morning
your hearts are mighty, your skins are whole, and let burnt
your humour for that. I had rather hear my dog bark at a crow
your master is hard at door; if he bid you set it down, obey
your niece Beatrice was in love with Signior Benedick?
your own, and good night. Come, neighbour.
your place and person, generally allow'd for your many
your rapier, Jack; I vill tell you how I vill kill him.
your servant.
your worship to correct yourself, for the example of others.
yours were.
yourself know how easy is it to be such an offender.
yourself too much in the action, mounsieur; and, good mounsieur,
yourself.
yourself?
youth, and he that hath no beard is less than a man; and he that
Re-enter FALSTAFF in woman's clothes, and MISTRESS PAGE
1. Watch. And that Count Claudio did mean, upon his words, to
1. Watch. Call up the right Master Constable. We have here
1. Watch. Hugh Oatcake, sir, or George Seacoal; for they can write
1. Watch. This man said, sir, that Don John the Prince's brother
1. Watch. You'll be made bring Deformed forth, I warrant you.
2. Watch. And one Deformed is one of them. I know him; 'a wears a
2. Watch. Both which, Master Constable--
2. Watch. How if 'a will not stand?
2. Watch. How if the nurse be asleep and will not hear us?
2. Watch. How if they will not?
2. Watch. If we know him to be a thief, shall we not lay hands on
2. Watch. Marry, that he had received a thousand ducats of Don John
2. Watch. Never speak, we charge you. Let us obey you to go with
2. Watch. We charge you in the Prince's name stand!
2. Watch. We will rather sleep than talk. We know what belongs to
2. Watch. Well, masters, we hear our charge. Let us go sit here
2. Watch. Well, sir.
2. Watch. [aside] I know that Deformed. 'A bas been a vile thief
2. Watch. [aside] Peace! stir not!
2. Watch. [aside] Some treason, masters. Yet stand close.
A Boy.
A Clown in service to Othello
A Sexton.
ALL. Have with you to see this monster.                 Exeunt
ALL. That would hang us, every mother's son.
ALL. Where shall we go?
ANNE. Alas, I had rather be set quick i' th' earth.
ANNE. Alas, how then?
ANNE. Gentle Master Fenton,
ANNE. Good Master Shallow, let him woo for himself.
ANNE. Good mother, do not marry me to yond fool.
ANNE. I come to him.  [Aside]  This is my father's choice.
ANNE. I mean, Master Slender, what would you with me?
ANNE. Now, Master Slender-
ANNE. Pardon, good father. Good my mother, pardon.
ANNE. What is your will?
ANNE.. May be he tells you true.
Ant. A good sharp fellow. I will send for him, and question him
Ant. And shall, or some of us will smart for it.
Ant. As the event stamps them; but they have a good cover, they
Ant. At a word, I am not.
Ant. At a word, I am not.
Ant. Come, 'tis no matter.
Ant. Content yourself. God knows I lov'd my niece,
Ant. Farewell, my lords. We look for you to-morrow.
Ant. He is very busy about it. But, brother, I can tell you strange
Ant. Here comes the Prince and Claudio hastily.
Ant. Hold you content. What, man! I know them, yea,
Ant. I saw him not.
Ant. If he could right himself with quarrelling,
Ant. If you go on thus, you will kill yourself,
Ant. In faith, she's too curst.
Ant. Therein do men from children nothing differ.
Ant. This same is she, and I do give you her.
Ant. To tell you true, I counterfeit him.
Ant. Well, I am glad that all things sort so well.
Ant. Which I will do with confirm'd countenance.
Ant. Yet bend not all the harm upon yourself.
Ant. [to Hero] Well, niece, I trust you will be rul'd by your
Antonio, an old man, his brother.
Attendants on Theseus and Hippolyta
BARDOLPH. Ay, sir.
BARDOLPH. Ay, sir; I'll call them to you.
BARDOLPH. Come in, woman.
BARDOLPH. Here's Mistress Quickly, sir, to speak with you
BARDOLPH. Here, sir.
BARDOLPH. Out, alas, sir, cozenage, mere cozenage!
BARDOLPH. Run away with the cozeners; for so soon as I
BARDOLPH. Sir John, there's one Master Brook below would
BARDOLPH. Sir, the Germans desire to have three of your
BARDOLPH. With eggs, sir?
BIANCA, mistress of Cassio
BOTTOM, a weaver
BOTTOM. -odours savours sweet;
BOTTOM. A calendar, a calendar! Look in the almanack; find out
BOTTOM. A very good piece of work, I assure you, and a merry. Now,
BOTTOM. An I may hide my face, let me play Thisby too.
BOTTOM. Are we all met?
BOTTOM. Enough; hold, or cut bow-strings.               Exeunt
BOTTOM. First, good Peter Quince, say what the play treats on; then
BOTTOM. Give me your neaf, Mounsieur Mustardseed. Pray you, leave
BOTTOM. Good Master Mustardseed, I know your patience well. That
BOTTOM. I cry your worships mercy, heartily; I beseech your
BOTTOM. I grant you, friends, if you should fright the ladies out
BOTTOM. I had rather have a handful or two of dried peas. But, I
BOTTOM. I have a reasonable good ear in music. Let's have the tongs
BOTTOM. I pray you, commend me to Mistress Squash, your mother, and
BOTTOM. I see their knavery: this is to make an ass of me; to
BOTTOM. I shall desire you of more acquaintance, good Master
BOTTOM. I will discharge it in either your straw-colour beard, your
BOTTOM. If I were fair, Thisby, I were only thine.
BOTTOM. Let me play the lion too. I will roar that I will do any
BOTTOM. Masters, I am to discourse wonders; but ask me not what;
BOTTOM. Masters, you ought to consider with yourself to bring in-
BOTTOM. Methinks, mistress, you should have little reason for that.
BOTTOM. Mounsieur Cobweb; good mounsieur, get you your weapons in
BOTTOM. Nay, you must name his name, and half his face must be seen
BOTTOM. No, make it two more; let it be written in eight and eight.
BOTTOM. Not a whit; I have a device to make all well. Write me a
BOTTOM. Not a word of me. All that I will tell you is, that the
BOTTOM. Not so, neither; but if I had wit enough to get out of this
BOTTOM. Nothing, good mounsieur, but to help Cavalery Cobweb to
BOTTOM. Peter Quince!
BOTTOM. Ready. Name what part I am for, and proceed.
BOTTOM. Scratch my head, Peaseblossom.
BOTTOM. Some man or other must present Wall; and let him have some
BOTTOM. That will ask some tears in the true performing of it. If I
BOTTOM. There are things in this comedy of Pyramus and Thisby that
BOTTOM. Thisby, the flowers of odious savours sweet-
BOTTOM. Truly, a peck of provender; I could munch your good dry
BOTTOM. We will meet; and there we may rehearse most obscenely and
BOTTOM. Well, I will undertake it. What beard were I best to play
BOTTOM. Well, proceed.
BOTTOM. What do you see? You see an ass-head of your own, do you?
BOTTOM. What is Pyramus? A lover, or a tyrant?
BOTTOM. Where are these lads? Where are these hearts?
BOTTOM. Where's Peaseblossom?
BOTTOM. Why do they run away? This is a knavery of them to make me
BOTTOM. Why, then may you leave a casement of the great chamber
BOTTOM. You were best to call them generally, man by man, according
BOTTOM. [Awaking] When my cue comes, call me, and I will answer. My
BOTTOM. [Sings]
BOTTOM. [Starting up] No, I assure you; the wall is down that
BRABANTIO, Venetian Senator, father of Desdemona
Balth. Amen.
Balth. And an ill singer, my lord.
Balth. Because you talk of wooing, I will sing,
Balth. I love you the better. The hearers may cry Amen.
Balth. No more words. The clerk is answered.
Balth. Note this before my notes:
Balth. O, good my lord, tax not so bad a voice
Balth. The best I can, my lord.
Balth. Well, I would you did like me.
Balth. Which is one?
Balthasar, attendant on Don Pedro.
Beat. 'Then' is spoken. Fare you well now. And yet, ere I go, let
Beat. 'Tis almost five o'clock, cousin; 'tis time you were ready.
Beat. A bird of my tongue is better than a beast of yours.
Beat. A dear happiness to women! They would else have been troubled
Beat. A very even way, but no such friend.
Beat. Against my will I am sent to bid You come in to dinner.
Beat. Ah, how much might the man deserve of me that would right
Beat. Alas, he gets nothing by that! In our last conflict four of
Beat. And a good soldier to a lady; but what is he to a lord?
Beat. And how long is that, think you?
Beat. As strange as the thing I know not. It were as possible for
Beat. Benedictus? why benedictus? You have some moral in this
Beat. Dead, I think. Help, uncle!
Beat. Did he never make you laugh?
Beat. Do not swear, and eat it.
Beat. Do not you love me?
Beat. Do, do. He'll but break a comparison or two on me; which
Beat. Do, good friend.
Beat. For the letter that begins them all, H.
Beat. For them all together, which maintain'd so politic a state of
Beat. Foul words is but foul wind, and foul wind is but foul
Beat. Good Lord, for alliance! Thus goes every one to the world but
Beat. Good morrow, sweet Hero.
Beat. He set up his bills here in Messina and challeng'd Cupid at
Beat. He were an excellent man that were made just in the midway
Beat. How now, cousin Hero?
Beat. How tartly that gentleman looks! I never can see him but I am
Beat. I am gone, though I am here. There is no love in you. Nay, I
Beat. I am out of all other tune, methinks.
Beat. I am stuff'd, cousin; I cannot smell.
Beat. I am sure you know him well enough.
Beat. I cry you mercy, uncle, By your Grace's pardon.    Exit.
Beat. I have a good eye, uncle; I can see a church by daylight.
Beat. I love you with so much of my heart that none is left to
Beat. I pray you, is Signior Mountanto return'd from the wars or no?
Beat. I took no more pains for those thanks than you take pains to
Beat. I wonder that you will still be talking, Signior Benedick.
Beat. I would not deny you; but, by this good day, I yield upon
Beat. I would rather have one of your father's getting. Hath your
Beat. I'll tell thee what, Prince: a college of wit-crackers cannot
Beat. In faith, I will go.
Beat. In spite of your heart, I think. Alas, poor heart! If you
Beat. Indeed, my lord, he lent it me awhile, and I gave him use for
Beat. Is 'a not approved in the height a villain, that hath
Beat. Is it possible Disdain should die while she hath such meet
Beat. It appears not in this confession. There's not one wise man
Beat. It is a man's office, but not yours.
Beat. It is not seen enough. You should wear it in your cap. By my
Beat. It is so indeed. He is no less than a stuff'd man; but for
Beat. Just, if he send me no husband; for the which blessing I am
Beat. Kill Claudio.
Beat. Nay, if they lead to any ill, I will leave them at the next
Beat. No, my lord, unless I might have another for working days:
Beat. No, not till a hot January.
Beat. No, sure, my lord, my mother cried; but then there was a star
Beat. No, truly, but in friendly recompense.
Beat. No, truly, not; although, until last night,
Beat. No. An he were, I would burn my study. But I pray you, who is
Beat. No; but to the gate, and there will the devil meet me like an
Beat. Nor will you not tell me who you are?
Beat. Not till God make men of some other metal than earth. Would
Beat. O Lord, he will hang upon him like a disease! He is sooner
Beat. O, God help me! God help me! How long have you profess'd
Beat. O, on my soul, my cousin is belied!
Beat. Princes and Counties! Surely a princely testimony, a goodly
Beat. Scratching could not make it worse an 'twere such a face as
Beat. So I would not he should do me, my lord, lest I should prove
Beat. Speak, Count, 'tis your cue.
Beat. Speak, cousin; or, if you cannot, stop his mouth with a kiss
Beat. Sweet Hero! she is wrong'd, she is sland'red, she is undone.
Beat. Talk with a man out at a window!-a proper saying!
Beat. That I was disdainful, and that I had my good wit out of the
Beat. The Count is neither sad, nor sick, nor merry, nor well; but
Beat. The fault will be in the music, cousin, if you be not wooed
Beat. They swore that you were well-nigh dead for me.
Beat. Too curst is more than curst. I shall lessen God's sending
Beat. Use it for my love some other way than swearing by it.
Beat. Very easily possible. He wears his faith but as the fashion
Beat. Very ill too.
Beat. Very ill.
Beat. What fire is in mine ears? Can this be true?
Beat. What means the fool, trow?
Beat. What pace is this that thy tongue keeps?
Beat. What should I do with him? dress him in my apparel and make
Beat. Why then, God forgive me!
Beat. Why, he is the Prince's jester, a very dull fool. Only his
Beat. Why, how now, cousin? Wherefore sink you down?
Beat. Why, no; no more than reason.
Beat. Why, then my cousin, Margaret, and Ursula
Beat. Will you go hear this news, signior?
Beat. Will you not eat your word?
Beat. Will you not tell me who told you so?
Beat. With a good leg and a good foot, uncle, and money enough in
Beat. Yea, 'Light o' love' with your heels! then, if your husband
Beat. Yea, and I will weep a while longer.
Beat. Yea, as sure is I have a thought or a soul.
Beat. Yea, just so much as you may take upon a knives point, and
Beat. Yea, my lord; I thank it, poor fool, it keeps on the windy
Beat. Yea, signior, and depart when you bid me.
Beat. Yes faith. It is my cousin's duty to make cursy and say,
Beat. You always end with a jade's trick. I know you of old.
Beat. You dare easier be friends with me than fight with mine
Beat. You had musty victual, and he hath holp to eat it. He is a
Beat. You have no reason. I do it freely.
Beat. You have stayed me in a happy hour. I was about to protest I
Beat. You kill me to deny it. Farewell.
Beat. [unmasks] I answer to that name. What is your will?
Beatrice, niece to Leonato.
Bene. 'Tis no such matter. Then you do not love me?
Bene. A miracle! Here's our own hands against our hearts.
Bene. A most manly wit, Margaret: it will not hurt a woman.
Bene. Alas, poor hurt fowl! now will he creep into sedges. But,
Bene. An old, an old instance, Beatrice, that liv'd in the time of
Bene. And I do with an eye of love requite her.
Bene. And do it with all thy heart.
Bene. And how do you?
Bene. And so am I, being else by faith enforc'd
Bene. And therefore will come.
Bene. And, by my two faiths and troths, my lord, I spoke mine.
Bene. Beat--
Bene. Beatrice--
Bene. Boy!
Bene. Bull Jove, sir, had an amiable low,
Bene. By my sword, Beatrice, thou lovest me.
Bene. Come, bid me do anything for thee.
Bene. Come, come, we are friends. Let's have a dance ere we are
Bene. Come, will you go with me?
Bene. Count Claudio?
Bene. Do not you love me?
Bene. Do you question me, as an honest man should do, for my simple
Bene. Enough, I am engag'd, I will challenge him. I will kiss your
Bene. Even to the next willow, about your own business, County. What
Bene. Fair Beatrice, I thank you for your pains.
Bene. Fare you well, boy; you know my mind. I will leave you now to
Bene. First, of my word! Therefore play, music. Prince, thou art
Bene. Friar, I must entreat your pains, I think.
Bene. Gallants, I am not as I have been.
Bene. God keep your ladyship still in that mind! So some gentleman
Bene. Good day, my lord.
Bene. Ha! 'Against my will I am sent to bid you come in to dinner.'
Bene. Ha! not for the wide world!
Bene. Hang it!
Bene. Hear me, Beatrice!
Bene. Ho! now you strike like the blind man! 'Twas the boy that
Bene. How doth the lady?
Bene. How now? interjections? Why then, some be of laughing, as,
Bene. I can see yet without spectacles, and I see no such matter.
Bene. I do love nothing in the world so well as you. Is not that
Bene. I have almost matter enough in me for such an embassage; and
Bene. I have the toothache.
Bene. I know that, but I would have thee hence and here again.
Bene. I look for an earthquake too then.
Bene. I noted her not, but I look'd on her.
Bene. I pray you, what is he?
Bene. I will live in thy heart, die in thy lap, and be buried thy
Bene. I will not desire that.
Bene. I will swear by it that you love me, and I will make him eat
Bene. I would my horse had the speed of your tongue, and so good a
Bene. I would your Grace would constrain me to tell.
Bene. If I do, hang me in a bottle like a cat and shoot at me; and
Bene. If Signior Leonato be her father, she would not have his head
Bene. If their singing answer your saying, by my faith you say
Bene. If you use them, Margaret, you must put in the pikes with a
Bene. In a false quarrel there is no true valour. I came to seek
Bene. In every good thing.
Bene. In my chamber window lies a book. Bring it hither to me in
Bene. In so high a style, Margaret, that no man living shall come
Bene. Is Claudio thine enemy?
Bene. Is there any way to show such friendship?
Bene. Is't come to this? In faith, hath not the world one man but
Bene. It is in my scabbard. Shall I draw it?
Bene. Lady Beatrice, have you wept all this while?
Bene. Lady, were you her bedfellow last night?
Bene. Like the old tale, my lord: 'It is not so, nor 'twas not so;
Bene. May a man do it?
Bene. Nay but Beatrice--
Bene. Nay, mock not, mock not. The body of your discourse is
Bene. No, you shall pardon me.
Bene. Not I, believe me.
Bene. Not now.
Bene. O God, sir, here's a dish I love not! I cannot endure my Lady
Bene. O, she misus'd me past the endurance of a block! An oak but
Bene. O, stay but till then!
Bene. Only foul words; and thereupon I will kiss thee.
Bene. Peace! I will stop your mouth.             [Kisses her.]
Bene. Pray thee, sweet Mistress Margaret, deserve well at my hands
Bene. Question: why, an hour in clamour and a quarter in rheum.
Bene. Serve God, love me, and mend. There will I leave you too, for
Bene. Shall I speak a word in your ear?
Bene. Signior Leonato, let the friar advise you;
Bene. Sir, I shall meet your wit in the career an you charge it
Bene. Sir, sir, be patient.
Bene. Sir, your wit ambles well; it goes easily.
Bene. Soft and fair, friar. Which is Beatrice?
Bene. Suffer love!--a good epithet. I do suffer love indeed, for I
Bene. Surely I do believe your fair cousin is wronged.
Bene. Tarry, good Beatrice. By this hand, I love thee.
Bene. Tarry, sweet Beatrice.
Bene. That I neither feel how she should be loved, nor know how she
Bene. That a woman conceived me, I thank her; that she brought me
Bene. The flat transgression of a schoolboy who, being overjoyed
Bene. The savage bull may; but if ever the sensible Benedick bear
Bene. Then is courtesy a turncoat. But it is certain I am loved of
Bene. They swore that you were almost sick for me.
Bene. Think not on him till to-morrow. I'll devise thee brave
Bene. Think you in your soul the Count Claudio hath wrong'd Hero?
Bene. This can be no trick. The conference was sadly borne; they
Bene. This looks not like a nuptial.
Bene. Thou and I are too wise to woo peaceably.
Bene. Thou hast frighted the word out of his right sense, so
Bene. Thy wit is as quick as the greyhound's mouth--it catches.
Bene. To bind me, or undo me--one of them.
Bene. Troth, my lord, I have played the part of Lady Fame, I found
Bene. Troth, no; no more than reason.
Bene. Two of them have the very bent of honour;
Bene. We'll be friends first.
Bene. Well, every one can master a grief but he that has it.
Bene. Well, you are a rare parrot-teacher.
Bene. Were you in doubt, sir, that you ask'd her?
Bene. What offence, sweet Beatrice?
Bene. What's he?
Bene. What, my dear Lady Disdain! are you yet living?
Bene. When I know the gentleman, I'll tell him what you say.
Bene. Why, i' faith, methinks she's too low for a high praise,
Bene. Why, that's spoken like an honest drovier. So they sell
Bene. Why, then your uncle, and the Prince, and Claudio
Bene. Will your Grace command me any service to the world's end? I
Bene. With anger, with sickness, or with hunger, my lord; not with
Bene. With no sauce that can be devised to it. I protest I love
Bene. Would you buy her, that you enquire after her?
Bene. Yea, and a case to put it into. But speak you this with a sad
Bene. Yet is this no charm for the toothache. Old signior, walk
Bene. Yet it had not been amiss the rod had been made, and the
Bene. You hear, Count Claudio. I can be secret as a dumb man, I
Bene. You take pleasure then in the message?
Bene. Your answer, sir, is enigmatical;
Bene. [aside to Claudio] You are a villain. I jest not; I will make
Bene. [aside] An he had been a dog that should have howl'd thus,
Bene. [aside] I should think this a gull but that the white-bearded
Bene. [aside] Is't possible? Sits the wind in that corner?
Bene. [aside] Now divine air! Now is his soul ravish'd! Is it not
Benedick, a Young lord of Padua.
Bor. Borachio.
Bora. And that is Claudio. I know him by his bearing.
Bora. Be you constant in the accusation, and my cunning shall not
Bora. Being entertain'd for a perfumer, as I was smoking a musty
Bora. Conrade, I say!
Bora. Didst thou not hear somebody?
Bora. Even he.
Bora. Go then; find me a meet hour to draw Don Pedro and the Count
Bora. I came yonder from a great supper. The Prince your brother is
Bora. I can, at any unseasonable instant of the night, appoint her
Bora. I mean the fashion.
Bora. I think I told your lordship, a year since, how much I am in
Bora. If you would know your wronger, look on me.
Bora. Marry, it is your brother's right hand.
Bora. Marry, on Hero, the daughter and heir of Leonato.
Bora. Mass, and my elbow itch'd! I thought there would a scab
Bora. Master Constable--
Bora. No, by my soul, she was not;
Bora. Not honestly, my lord, but so covertly that no dishonesty
Bora. Not so neither. But know that I have to-night wooed Margaret,
Bora. Proof enough to misuse the Prince, to vex Claudio, to undo
Bora. Seest thou not, I say, what a deformed thief this fashion is?
Bora. Sir, I say to you we are none.
Bora. So did I too, and he swore he would marry her tonight.
Bora. Stand thee close then under this penthouse, for it drizzles
Bora. Sweet Prince, let me go no farther to mine answer. Do you
Bora. That shows thou art unconfirm'd. Thou knowest that the
Bora. The poison of that lies in you to temper. Go you to the
Bora. Therefore know I have earned of Don John a thousand ducats.
Bora. Thou shouldst rather ask if it were possible any villany
Bora. Tush! I may as well say the fool's the fool. But seest thou
Bora. Two of them did, the Prince and Claudio; but the devil my
Bora. We are like to prove a goodly commodity, being taken up of
Bora. We'll wait upon your lordship.
Bora. What, Conrade!
Bora. Yea, and paid me richly for the practice of it.
Bora. Yea, even I alone.
Bora. Yea, my lord; but I can cross it.
Borachio, follower of Don John.
Both. Yea, sir, we hope.
Boy. I am here already, sir.
Boy. Signior?
CAIUS, I come to fetch you home. I am sworn of the peace;
CAIUS. Ay, be gar, and 'tis a boy; be gar, I'll raise all
CAIUS. Ay, be-gar; and de maid is love-a me; my nursh-a
CAIUS. Ay, dat is very good! excellent!
CAIUS. Be gar, nor I too; there is no bodies.
CAIUS. By gar, 'tis good; vell said.
CAIUS. By gar, 'tis no the fashion of France; it is not jealous
CAIUS. By gar, I see 'tis an honest woman.
CAIUS. By gar, de herring is no dead so as I vill kill him. Take
CAIUS. By gar, he has save his soul dat he is no come; he has
CAIUS. By gar, he is de coward Jack priest of de world; he is
CAIUS. By gar, me dank you vor dat; by gar, I love you; and
CAIUS. By gar, me do look he shall clapper-de-claw me; for,
CAIUS. By gar, me vill kill de priest; for he speak for a jack-
CAIUS. By gar, then I have as much mockvater as de Englishman.
CAIUS. By gar, with all my heart. He promise to bring me
CAIUS. By gar, you are de coward, de Jack dog, John ape.
CAIUS. Clapper-de-claw! Vat is dat?
CAIUS. Come at my heels, Jack Rugby.                    Exeunt
CAIUS. Dat is good; by gar, with all my heart.
CAIUS. Diable! Jack Rugby-mine Host de Jarteer-have I
CAIUS. Go home, John Rugby; I come anon.            Exit RUGBY
CAIUS. Ha, do I perceive dat? Have you make-a de sot of us,
CAIUS. I cannot tell vat is dat; but it is tell-a me dat you
CAIUS. I know vat I have to do; adieu.
CAIUS. I pray you, bear witness that me have stay six or
CAIUS. I pray you, let-a me speak a word with your ear.
CAIUS. If there be one or two, I shall make-a the turd.
CAIUS. Jack Rugby!
CAIUS. Me tank you for dat.
CAIUS. Mock-vater! Vat is dat?
CAIUS. Vat be all you, one, two, tree, four, come for?
CAIUS. Vat is de clock, Jack?
CAIUS. Vere is Mistress Page? By gar, I am cozened; I ha'
CAIUS. Vere is mine host de Jarteer?
CAIUS. Villainy, take your rapier.
CASSIO, lieutenant to Othello
CHORUS.      Philomel with melody
CHORUS.      Philomel with melody, etc.       [TITANIA Sleeps]
COBWEB, fairy
COBWEB. And I.
COBWEB. Cobweb.
COBWEB. Hail!
COBWEB. Ready.
Claud. 'Tis even so. Hero and Margaret have by this played their
Claud. 'Tis true indeed. So your daughter says. 'Shall I,' says
Claud. All, all! and moreover, God saw him when he was hid in the
Claud. And Hymen now with luckier issue speeds
Claud. And I take him to be valiant.
Claud. And I'll be sworn upon't that he loves her;
Claud. And I, my lord.
Claud. And never could maintain his part but in the force of his
Claud. And she is exceeding wise.
Claud. And so she doth, cousin.
Claud. And what have I to give you back whose worth
Claud. And when was he wont to wash his face?
Claud. And, in faith, my lord, I spoke mine.
Claud. Another Hero!
Claud. Away! I will not have to do with you.
Claud. Before God! and in my mind, very wise.
Claud. Benedick, didst thou note the daughter of Signior Leonato?
Claud. Can the world buy such a jewel?
Claud. Disloyal?
Claud. Faith, like enough.
Claud. For the which she wept heartily and said she cared not.
Claud. For this I owe you. Here comes other reckonings.
Claud. Give me your hand before this holy friar.
Claud. God bless me from a challenge!
Claud. Good day to both of you.
Claud. Good morrow, masters. Each his several way.
Claud. Hath Leonato any son, my lord?
Claud. He is a very proper man.
Claud. He is then a giant to an ape; but then is an ape a doctor to
Claud. Hearken after their offence, my lord.
Claud. Hero thinks surely she will die; for she says she will die
Claud. How know you he loves her?
Claud. How sweetly you do minister to love,
Claud. I had well hop'd thou wouldst have denied Beatrice, that I
Claud. I have drunk poison whiles he utter'd it.
Claud. I hope he be in love.
Claud. I know not how to pray your patience;
Claud. I know what you would say. If I have known her,
Claud. I pray you leave me.
Claud. I think he thinks upon the savage bull.
Claud. I wish him joy of her.
Claud. I would scarce trust myself, though I had sworn the
Claud. I' faith, I thank him, he hath bid me to a calve's head and
Claud. I'll bring you thither, my lord, if you'll vouchsafe me.
Claud. I'll hold my mind, were she an Ethiope.
Claud. If I see anything to-night why I should not marry her
Claud. If he be not in love with some woman, there is no believing
Claud. If he be, he knows how to turn his girdle.
Claud. If he dote on her upon this, I will never trust my
Claud. If it will not be, I'll leave you.                Exit.
Claud. If my passion change not shortly, God forbid it should be
Claud. If there be any impediment, I pray you discover it.
Claud. If this should ever happen, thou wouldst be horn-mad.
Claud. If this were so, so were it utt'red.
Claud. In mine eye she is the sweetest lady that ever I look'd on.
Claud. In most profound earnest; and, I'll warrant you, for the
Claud. Is she not a modest young lady?
Claud. Is this the monument of Leonato?
Claud. Know you any, Hero?
Claud. Leonato, stand I here?
Claud. Let me but move one question to your daughter,
Claud. Marry, that can Hero!
Claud. Mary, beshrew my hand
Claud. May this be so?
Claud. Most sincerely.
Claud. My liege, your Highness now may do me good.
Claud. My villany?
Claud. Nay then, give him another staff; this last was broke cross.
Claud. Nay, but I know who loves him.
Claud. Nay, but his jesting spirit, which is new-crept into a
Claud. Neither, my lord.
Claud. Never any did so, though very many have been beside their
Claud. Never tell him, my lord. Let her wear it out with good
Claud. No, but the barber's man hath been seen with him, and the
Claud. No.
Claud. No. I pray thee speak in sober judgment.
Claud. Not sad, my lord.
Claud. Not to be married,
Claud. Now unto thy bones good night!
Claud. Now you talk of a sheet of paper, I remember a pretty jest
Claud. Now, signior, what news?
Claud. O Hero! what a Hero hadst thou been
Claud. O mischief strangely thwarting!
Claud. O noble sir!
Claud. O, ay!-[Aside to Pedro] Stalk on, stalk on; the fowl sits.
Claud. O, very well, my lord. The music ended,
Claud. O, what men dare do! what men may do! what men daily do, not
Claud. Out on the seeming! I will write against it.
Claud. Rightly reasoned, and in his own division; and by my troth
Claud. She did indeed.
Claud. Silence is the perfectest herald of joy. I were but little
Claud. Stand thee by, friar. Father, by your leave:
Claud. Sweet Hero, now thy image doth appear
Claud. Sweet Prince, you learn me noble thankfulness.
Claud. That I love her, I feel.
Claud. That's as much as to say, the sweet youth's in love.
Claud. That.
Claud. Then down upon her knees she falls, weeps, sobs, beats her
Claud. Thou thinkest I am in sport. I pray thee tell me truly how
Claud. Thus answer I in name of Benedick
Claud. To make you answer truly to your name.
Claud. To the tuition of God. From my house--if I had it--
Claud. To what end? He would make but a sport of it and torment the
Claud. To-morrow, my lord. Time goes on crutches till love have all
Claud. To-night I'll mourn with Hero.
Claud. We had lik'd to have had our two noses snapp'd off with two
Claud. We have been up and down to seek thee; for we are high-proof
Claud. Well, I will meet you, so I may have good cheer.
Claud. What, courage, man! What though care kill'd a cat, thou hast
Claud. Whither?
Claud. Who wrongs him?
Claud. Who? Hero?
Claud. Why then, she's mine. Sweet, let me see your face.
Claud. Yea, and text underneath, 'Here dwells Benedick, the married
Claud. Yea, my good lord. How still the evening is,
Claud. Yea, the same.
Claud. Yes, and his ill conditions; and in despite of all, dies for
Claud. Yet say I he is in love.
Claud. You know me well. I am he.
Claud. You must hang it first and draw it afterwards.
Claud. You speak this to fetch me in, my lord.
Claud. [aside] Bait the hook well! This fish will bite.
Claud. [aside] He hath ta'en th' infection. Hold it up.
Claud. [reads from a scroll]
Claud.O my lord,
Claudio, a young lord of Florence.
Con. A commodity in question, I warrant you. Come, we'll obey you.
Con. All this I see; and I see that the fashion wears out more
Con. And thought they Margaret was Hero?
Con. Away! you are an ass, you are an ass.
Con. Can you make no use of your discontent?
Con. Here, man. I am at thy elbow.
Con. I am a gentleman, sir, and my name is Conrade.
Con. I will owe thee an answer for that; and now forward with thy
Con. I wonder at it.
Con. If not a present remedy, at least a patient sufferance.
Con. Is it possible that any villany should be so dear?
Con. Marry, sir, we say we are none.
Con. Masters, masters--
Con. Masters--
Con. No; 'twas the vane on the house.
Con. Off, coxcomb!
Con. To the death, my lord.
Con. What the goodyear, my lord! Why are you thus out of measure
Con. Yea, but you must not make the full show of this till you may
Con. Yes, it is apparel.
Con. Yes, the fashion is the fashion.
Con. You should hear reason.
Conrade, follower of Don John.
DEMETRIUS, in love with Hermia
DEMETRIUS. A mote will turn the balance, which Pyramus, which
DEMETRIUS. Abide me, if thou dar'st; for well I wot
DEMETRIUS. An if I could, what should I get therefore?
DEMETRIUS. And then came Pyramus.
DEMETRIUS. And thus she moans, videlicet:-
DEMETRIUS. Are you sure
DEMETRIUS. Ay, and Wall too.
DEMETRIUS. Disparage not the faith thou dost not know,
DEMETRIUS. Do I entice you? Do I speak you fair?
DEMETRIUS. Follow! Nay, I'll go with thee, cheek by jowl.
DEMETRIUS. He dares not come there for the candle; for, you see, it
DEMETRIUS. He should have worn the horns on his head.
DEMETRIUS. I charge thee, hence, and do not haunt me thus.
DEMETRIUS. I had rather give his carcass to my hounds.
DEMETRIUS. I love thee not, therefore pursue me not.
DEMETRIUS. I say I love thee more than he can do.
DEMETRIUS. I will not stay thy questions; let me go;
DEMETRIUS. I would I had your bond; for I perceive
DEMETRIUS. I'll run from thee and hide me in the brakes,
DEMETRIUS. If she cannot entreat, I can compel.
DEMETRIUS. It is the wittiest partition that ever I heard
DEMETRIUS. Lysander, keep thy Hermia; I will none.
DEMETRIUS. Lysander, speak again.
DEMETRIUS. My lord, fair Helen told me of their stealth,
DEMETRIUS. Nay, then, thou mock'st me. Thou shalt buy this dear,
DEMETRIUS. No die, but an ace, for him; for he is but one.
DEMETRIUS. No remedy, my lord, when walls are so wilful to hear
DEMETRIUS. No wonder, my lord: one lion may, when many asses do.
DEMETRIUS. No, no, he will
DEMETRIUS. No, sir, she shall not, though you take her part.
DEMETRIUS. Not so, my lord; for his valour cannot carry his
DEMETRIUS. O, why rebuke you him that loves you so?
DEMETRIUS. Quick, come.
DEMETRIUS. Relent, sweet Hermia; and, Lysander, yield
DEMETRIUS. So should the murdered look; and so should I,
DEMETRIUS. Stay on thy peril; I alone will go.            Exit
DEMETRIUS. Tempt not too much the hatred of my spirit;
DEMETRIUS. The very best at a beast, my lord, that e'er I saw.
DEMETRIUS. There is no following her in this fierce vein;
DEMETRIUS. These things seem small and undistinguishable,
DEMETRIUS. Well roar'd, Lion.
DEMETRIUS. Why, all these should be in the lantern; for all these
DEMETRIUS. Why, then, we are awake; let's follow him;
DEMETRIUS. Yea, art thou there?
DEMETRIUS. You are too officious
DEMETRIUS. You do impeach your modesty too much
DEMETRIUS. You spend your passion on a mispris'd mood:
DEMETRIUS. [Awaking] O Helen, goddess, nymph, perfect, divine!
DESDEMONA, his wife
Dog. A good old man, sir; he will be talking. As they say, 'When
Dog. A marvellous witty fellow, I assure you; but I will go about
Dog. Are you good men and true?
Dog. Come hither, neighbour Seacoal. God hath bless'd you with a
Dog. Come you, sir. If justice cannot tame you, she shall ne'er
Dog. Come, bring away the plaintiffs. By this time our sexton hath
Dog. Come, let them be opinion'd.
Dog. Comparisons are odorous. Palabras, neighbour Verges.
Dog. Dost thou not suspect my place? Dost thou not suspect my
Dog. First, who think you the most desartless man to be constable?
Dog. Five shillings to one on't with any man that knows the
Dog. Flat burglary as ever was committed.
Dog. Gifts that God gives.
Dog. Go, good partner, go get you to Francis Seacoal; bid him bring
Dog. God save the foundation!
Dog. God's my life, where's the sexton? Let him write down the
Dog. Goodman Verges, sir, speaks a little off the matter--an old
Dog. Ha, ah, ha! Well, masters, good night. An there be any matter
Dog. I leave an arrant knave with your worship, which I beseech
Dog. If you meet a thief, you may suspect him, by virtue of your
Dog. Is our whole dissembly appear'd?
Dog. It pleases your worship to say so, but we are the poor Duke's
Dog. It shall be suffigance.
Dog. Marry, sir, I would have some confidence with you that decerns
Dog. Marry, sir, they have committed false report; moreover, they
Dog. Marry, that am I and my partner.
Dog. Marry, this it is, sir.
Dog. Moreover, sir, which indeed is not under white and black, this
Dog. Nay, that were a punishment too good for them if they should
Dog. O villain! thou wilt be condemn'd into everlasting redemption
Dog. One word more, honest neighbours. I pray you watch about
Dog. One word, sir. Our watch, sir, have indeed comprehended two
Dog. Pray thee, fellow, peace. I do not like thy look, I promise
Dog. Pray write down Borachio. Yours, sirrah?
Dog. This is the end of the charge: you, constable, are to present
Dog. True, and they are to meddle with none but the Prince's
Dog. Truly, I would not hang a dog by my will, much more a man who
Dog. Truly, by your office you may; but I think they that touch
Dog. We will spare for no wit, I warrant you. Here's that shall
Dog. Well, stand aside. Fore God, they are both in a tale.
Dog. Why then, depart in peace and let the child wake her with
Dog. Why then, let them alone till they are sober. If they make you
Dog. Why then, take no note of him, but let him go, and presently
Dog. Why, you speak like an ancient and most quiet watchman, for I
Dog. Write down Master Gentleman Conrade. Masters, do you serve
Dog. Write down Prince John a villain. Why, this is flat perjury,
Dog. Write down that they hope they serve God; and write God first,
Dog. Yea, in 'twere a thousand pound more than 'tis; for I hear as
Dog. Yea, marry, let them come before me. What is your name,
Dog. Yea, marry, that's the eftest way. Let the watch come forth.
Dog. You have. I knew it would be your answer. Well, for your
Dog. Your worship speaks like a most thankful and reverent youth,
Dogberry, a Constable.
Don John, his bastard brother.
Don Pedro, Prince of Arragon.
EGEUS, father to Hermia
EGEUS. Enough, enough, my Lord; you have enough;
EGEUS. Full of vexation come I, with complaint
EGEUS. Happy be Theseus, our renowned Duke!
EGEUS. It is, my lord.
EGEUS. My lord, this is my daughter here asleep,
EGEUS. Scornful Lysander, true, he hath my love;
EGEUS. With duty and desire we follow you.
EMILIA, his wife, lady-in-waiting to Desdemona
EVANS.  [Aside to CAIUS]  Pray you use your patience; in
EVANS.  [Aside to CAIUS]  Pray you, let us not be
EVANS. 'Tis one of the best discretions of a oman as ever
EVANS. 'Tis unreasonable. Will you take up your wife's
EVANS. A lousy knave, to have his gibes and his mockeries!
EVANS. And given to fornications, and to taverns, and sack,
EVANS. And leave you your jealousies too, I pray you.
EVANS. And what is 'a stone,' William?
EVANS. As I am a Christians soul, now, look you, this is the
EVANS. Ay.
EVANS. By yea and no, I think the oman is a witch indeed; I
EVANS. Come hither, William; hold up your head; come.
EVANS. Come, will this wood take fire?
EVANS. Fery well; what is it?
EVANS. For shame, oman.
EVANS. Got's will and his passion of my heart! I had as lief
EVANS. Have a care of your entertainments. There is a friend
EVANS. He has no more knowledge in Hibocrates and
EVANS. He is a good sprag memory. Farewell, Mistress Page.
EVANS. He's welcome.                                   [Sings]
EVANS. I most fehemently desire you you will also look that
EVANS. I pray you now, good Master Slender's serving-man,
EVANS. I pray you now, remembrance to-morrow on the
EVANS. I pray you, have your remembrance, child.
EVANS. I will teach the children their behaviours; and I will
EVANS. If there be any pody in the house, and in the
EVANS. If there is one, I shall make two in the company.
EVANS. It is qui, quae, quod; if you forget your qui's, your
EVANS. Leave your prabbles, oman. What is the focative
EVANS. Let us about it. It is admirable pleasures, and fery
EVANS. Master Ford, you must pray, and not follow the
EVANS. No, it is 'lapis'; I pray you remember in your prain.
EVANS. No; Master Slender is let the boys leave to play.
EVANS. Nominativo, hig, hag, hog; pray you, mark: genitivo,
EVANS. Oman, art thou lunatics? Hast thou no understandings
EVANS. Oman, forbear.
EVANS. Peace your tattlings. What is 'fair,' William?
EVANS. Pless my soul, how full of chollors I am, and trempling
EVANS. Pless you from his mercy sake, all of you!
EVANS. Pray you give me my gown; or else keep it in your
EVANS. Pray you, lock hand in hand; yourselves in order set;
EVANS. Remember, William: focative is caret.
EVANS. Seese is not good to give putter; your belly is all
EVANS. Show me now, William, some declensions of your
EVANS. Sir John Falstaff, serve Got, and leave your desires,
EVANS. That is a good William. What is he, William, that
EVANS. There is reasons and causes for it.
EVANS. This is fery fantastical humours and jealousies.
EVANS. This is well; he has made us his vlouting-stog. I
EVANS. Trib, trib, fairies; come; and remember your parts.
EVANS. Well, I will smite his noddles. Pray you follow.
EVANS. What is he?
EVANS. What is your genitive case plural, William?
EVANS. Where is mine host?
EVANS. Where's Pede? Go you, and where you find a maid
EVANS. Why, this is lunatics. This is mad as a mad dog.
EVANS. William, how many numbers is in nouns?
EVANS. You are a very simplicity oman; I pray you, peace.
EVANS. You say he has been thrown in the rivers; and has
EVANS. You suffer for a pad conscience. Your wife is as
Enter Constables [Dogberry and Verges, with the Watch, leading]
Enter Don Pedro, Claudio, Benedick, Balthasar, and John the Bastard.
FAIRY QUEEN. About, about;
FAIRY QUEEN. Corrupt, corrupt, and tainted in desire!
FAIRY QUEEN. Fairies, black, grey, green, and white,
FAIRY QUEEN. With trial-fire touch me his finger-end;
FAIRY.      Over hill, over dale,
FAIRY. And here my mistress. Would that he were gone!
FAIRY. Either I mistake your shape and making quite,
FALSTAFF Marry, she says that the very same man that
FALSTAFF.  [Above]  How now, mine host?
FALSTAFF.  [Aside to MRS. PAGE]  I love thee and none but
FALSTAFF.  [Coming forward]  Let me see 't, let me see 't. O,
FALSTAFF. 'Seese' and 'putter'! Have I liv'd to stand at the
FALSTAFF. 'Tis, 'tis his fortune.
FALSTAFF. And these are not fairies? I was three or four
FALSTAFF. And you, sir! Would you speak with me?
FALSTAFF. Away, I say; time wears; hold up your head, and
FALSTAFF. Ay, marry was it, mussel-shell. What would you
FALSTAFF. Ay, sir, like who more bold?
FALSTAFF. Ay, that there was, mine host; one that hath
FALSTAFF. Bardolph, I say!
FALSTAFF. Brook is his name?
FALSTAFF. By the Lord, a buck-basket! Ramm'd me in with
FALSTAFF. By the Lord, thou art a tyrant to say so; thou
FALSTAFF. Call him in.  [Exit BARDOLPH]  Such Brooks are
FALSTAFF. Come up into my chamber.                      Exeunt
FALSTAFF. Come, let me pour in some sack to the Thames
FALSTAFF. Conceal them, or thou diest.
FALSTAFF. Divide me like a brib'd buck, each a haunch; I
FALSTAFF. Do so. Between nine and ten, say'st thou?
FALSTAFF. Go fetch me a quart of sack; put a toast in 't.
FALSTAFF. Good Master Brook, I desire more acquaintance
FALSTAFF. Good hearts, devise something; any extremity
FALSTAFF. Hang him, mechanical salt-butter rogue! I will
FALSTAFF. Hang him, poor cuckoldly knave! I know him
FALSTAFF. Have I caught thee, my heavenly jewel?
FALSTAFF. Have I laid my brain in the sun, and dried it, that
FALSTAFF. Have you importun'd her to such a purpose?
FALSTAFF. Have you receiv'd no promise of satisfaction at
FALSTAFF. Heavens defend me from that Welsh fairy, lest he
FALSTAFF. I am glad, though you have ta'en a special stand
FALSTAFF. I do begin to perceive that I am made an ass.
FALSTAFF. I marvel I hear not of Master Brook; he sent me
FALSTAFF. I say you shall.
FALSTAFF. I spake with the old woman about it.
FALSTAFF. I think the devil will not have me damn'd, lest the
FALSTAFF. I went to her, Master Brook, as you see, like a
FALSTAFF. I would all the world might be cozen'd, for I have
FALSTAFF. I'll go out then.
FALSTAFF. Is it? I Will then address me to my appointment.
FALSTAFF. Keep in that mind; I'll deserve it.
FALSTAFF. Let the court of France show me such another. I
FALSTAFF. Master Brook, I will be thrown into Etna, as I
FALSTAFF. Master Brook, I will first make bold with your
FALSTAFF. Master Brook, I will not lie to you; I was at her
FALSTAFF. Mistress Ford! I have had ford enough; I was
FALSTAFF. Mistress Ford, I cannot cog, I cannot prate,
FALSTAFF. Mistress Ford, your sorrow hath eaten up my
FALSTAFF. Money is a good soldier, sir, and will on.
FALSTAFF. My doe with the black scut! Let the sky rain
FALSTAFF. Nay, you shall hear, Master Brook, what I have
FALSTAFF. No, I'll come no more i' th' basket. May I not go
FALSTAFF. No. Master Brook; but the peaking cornuto her
FALSTAFF. Now, Master Brook, you come to know what
FALSTAFF. O, sir!
FALSTAFF. Oh, oh, oh!
FALSTAFF. Prithee, no more prattling; go. I'll, hold. This is
FALSTAFF. Say'st thou so, old Jack; go thy ways; I'll make
FALSTAFF. She shall not see me; I will ensconce me behind
FALSTAFF. Simple of itself; I'll no pullet-sperm in my
FALSTAFF. Sir, I know not how I may deserve to be your
FALSTAFF. So did I mine, to build upon a foolish woman's
FALSTAFF. Speak, good Master Brook; I shall be glad to be
FALSTAFF. Take away these chalices. Go, brew me a pottle
FALSTAFF. The Windsor bell hath struck twelve; the minute
FALSTAFF. The devil take one party and his dam the other!
FALSTAFF. There was, mine host, an old fat woman even
FALSTAFF. They are fairies; he that speaks to them shall die.
FALSTAFF. Thou mightst as well say I love to walk by the
FALSTAFF. To have her, or no. Go; say the woman told me
FALSTAFF. To what purpose have you unfolded this to me?
FALSTAFF. Very ill-favouredly, Master Brook.
FALSTAFF. Very well, sir; proceed.
FALSTAFF. Want no Mistress Ford, Master Brook; you shall
FALSTAFF. Well, I Will visit her. Tell her so; and bid her
FALSTAFF. Well, I am your theme; you have the start of me;
FALSTAFF. Well, be gone; I will not miss her.
FALSTAFF. Well, sir.
FALSTAFF. What are they? Let us know.
FALSTAFF. What made me love thee? Let that persuade thee
FALSTAFF. What shall I do? I'll creep up into the chimney.
FALSTAFF. What should this be?
FALSTAFF. What tell'st thou me of black and blue? I was
FALSTAFF. When night-dogs run, all sorts of deer are chas'd.
FALSTAFF. Where is it?
FALSTAFF. While I was there.
FALSTAFF. You shall hear. As good luck would have it, comes
FALSTAFF. You're welcome. What's your will? Give us leave,
FENTON. Both, my good host, to go along with me.
FENTON. Farewell, gentle mistress; farewell, Nan.
FENTON. From time to time I have acquainted you
FENTON. Good Mistress Page, for that I love your daughter
FENTON. I see I cannot get thy father's love;
FENTON. I thank thee; and I pray thee, once to-night
FENTON. Nay, Master Page, be not impatient.
FENTON. No, heaven so speed me in my time to come!
FENTON. Sir, will you hear me?
FENTON. So shall I evermore be bound to thee;
FENTON. Why, thou must be thyself.
FENTON. Yet hear me speak. Assist me in my purpose,
FENTON. You do amaze her. Hear the truth of it.
FIRST FAIRY. Hence away; now all is well.
FIRST FAIRY. You spotted snakes with double tongue,
FIRST SERVANT. Come, come, take it up.
FIRST SERVANT. I hope not; I had lief as bear so much lead.
FLUTE, a bellows-mender
FLUTE. Here, Peter Quince.
FLUTE. If he come not, then the play is marr'd; it goes not
FLUTE. Most radiant Pyramus, most lily-white of hue,
FLUTE. Must I speak now?
FLUTE. Nay, faith, let not me play a woman; I have a beard coming.
FLUTE. No; he hath simply the best wit of any handicraft man in
FLUTE. O sweet bully Bottom! Thus hath he lost sixpence a day
FLUTE. O- As true as truest horse, that y et would never tire.
FLUTE. What is Thisby? A wand'ring knight?
FLUTE. You must say 'paragon.' A paramour is- God bless us!- A
FORD.  [Aside]  I think I shall drink in pipe-wine first with
FORD. 'Tis my fault, Master Page; I suffer for it.
FORD. 'Tis past eight already, sir.
FORD. A buck-basket!
FORD. A witch, a quean, an old cozening quean! Have I not
FORD. Amen.
FORD. And as wicked as his wife?
FORD. And did he search for you, and could not find you?
FORD. And how long lay you there?
FORD. And one that is as slanderous as Satan?
FORD. And sped you, sir?
FORD. Any thing.
FORD. Ay, I do so.
FORD. Ay, and an ox too; both the proofs are extant.
FORD. Ay, ay; I must bear it.
FORD. Ay, but if it prove true, Master Page, have you any
FORD. Ay; and as idle as she may hang together, for want of
FORD. Believe it, for you know it. There is money; spend it,
FORD. Bless you, sir!
FORD. Bless you, sir!
FORD. Buck? I would I could wash myself of the buck!
FORD. Empty the basket, I say.
FORD. Good Sir John, I sue for yours-not to charge you; for I
FORD. Hang her, witch!
FORD. Has Page any brains? Hath he any eyes? Hath he any
FORD. Help to search my house this one time. If I find not
FORD. How so, sir; did she change her determination?
FORD. Hum! ha! Is this a vision? Is this a dream? Do I sleep?
FORD. I am blest in your acquaintance. Do you know Ford,
FORD. I beseech you, heartily, some of you go home with me
FORD. I cannot find him; may be the knave bragg'd of that
FORD. I have long lov'd her, and, I protest to you, bestowed
FORD. I make bold to press with so little preparation upon
FORD. I shall find you anon.
FORD. I will never mistrust my wife again, till thou art able
FORD. I will tell you, sir, if you will give me the hearing.
FORD. I would you knew Ford, sir, that you might avoid him
FORD. I'll prat her.  [Beating him]  Out of my door, you
FORD. In good sadness, sir, I am sorry that for my sake you
FORD. Indeed she is.
FORD. Let it be so. Sir John,
FORD. Like a fair house built on another man's ground; so
FORD. Marry, sir, we'll bring you to Windsor, to one Master
FORD. Master Page, as I am a man, there was one convey'd
FORD. Nay, I'll to him again, in name of Brook;
FORD. Never.
FORD. Never.
FORD. Now, sir, who's a cuckold now? Master Brook,
FORD. O good sir!
FORD. O, understand my drift. She dwells so securely on the
FORD. Old woman? what old woman's that?
FORD. Pardon me, wife. Henceforth, do what thou wilt;
FORD. Pray you come near. If I suspect without cause, why
FORD. Pray you go, Master Page.
FORD. Sir John Falstaff!
FORD. Sir, I am a gentleman that have spent much; my name
FORD. Sir, I hear you are a scholar-I will be brief with you
FORD. So say I too, sir.
FORD. Stand not amaz'd; here is no remedy.
FORD. That will be excellent. I'll go buy them vizards.
FORD. That, indeed, Sir John, is my business.
FORD. The children must
FORD. There is a gentlewoman in this town, her husband's
FORD. There is no better way than that they spoke of.
FORD. This is strange. Who hath got the right Anne?
FORD. Troth, and I have a bag of money here troubles me; if
FORD. True, Master Page. Up, gentlemen, you shall see sport
FORD. Trust me, a good knot; I have good cheer at home,
FORD. Want no money, Sir John; you shall want none.
FORD. Well met, Mistress Page. Whither go you?
FORD. Well said, brazen-face; hold it out. Come forth, sirrah.
FORD. Well said, fairy Hugh.
FORD. Well, I promis'd you a dinner. Come, come, walk in
FORD. Well, he's not here I seek for.
FORD. Went you not to her yesterday, sir, as you told me
FORD. What a damn'd Epicurean rascal is this! My heart is
FORD. What, a hodge-pudding? a bag of flax?
FORD. What, while you were there?
FORD. When I have told you that, I have told you all. Some
FORD. Where had you this pretty weathercock?
FORD. Will you follow, gentlemen? I beseech you follow;
Friar Francis.
Friar. 'Tis well consented. Presently away;
Friar. All this amazement can I qualify,
Friar. And my help.
Friar. Did I not tell you she was innocent?
Friar. Have comfort, lady.
Friar. Hear me a little;
Friar. If either of you know any inward impediment why you should
Friar. Know you any, Count?
Friar. Lady, what man is he you are accus'd of?
Friar. Lady, you come hither to be married to this count?
Friar. Marry, this well carried shall on her behalf
Friar. Pause awhile
Friar. There is some strange misprision in the princes.
Friar. To do what, signior?
Friar. Yea, wherefore should she not?
Friar. You come hither, my lord, to marry this lady?
GRATIANO, nobleman of Venice, brother of Brabantio
HELENA, in love with Demetrius
HELENA. A foolish heart that I leave here behind.
HELENA. And Hippolyta.
HELENA. And I am sick when I look not on you.
HELENA. And even for that do I love you the more.
HELENA. Ay, do- persever, counterfeit sad looks,
HELENA. Ay, in the temple, in the town, the field,
HELENA. Call you me fair? That fair again unsay.
HELENA. Do not say so, Lysander; say not so.
HELENA. Fine, i' faith!
HELENA. Good Hermia, do not be so bitter with me.
HELENA. Have you not set Lysander, as in scorn,
HELENA. How happy some o'er other some can be!
HELENA. I pray you, though you mock me, gentlemen,
HELENA. I will not trust you, I;
HELENA. Lo, she is one of this confederacy!
HELENA. Never did mockers waste more idle breath.
HELENA. None, but your beauty; would that fault were mine!
HELENA. Nor none, in my mind, now you give her o'er.
HELENA. O excellent!
HELENA. O spite! O hell! I see you all are bent
HELENA. O that my prayers could such affection move!
HELENA. O that your frowns would teach my smiles such skill!
HELENA. O weary night, O long and tedious night,
HELENA. O, I am out of breath in this fond chase!
HELENA. O, when she is angry, she is keen and shrewd;
HELENA. O, wilt thou darkling leave me? Do not so.
HELENA. So methinks;
HELENA. Stay, though thou kill me, sweet Demetrius.
HELENA. The more I love, the more he hateth me.
HELENA. The wildest hath not such a heart as you.
HELENA. Wherefore was I to this keen mockery born?
HELENA. With Demetrius.
HELENA. Yes, sooth; and so do you.
HELENA. You do advance your cunning more and more.
HELENA. You draw me, you hard-hearted adamant;
HELENA. Your virtue is my privilege for that:
HERMIA, daughter to Egeus, in love with Lysander
HERMIA. 'Little' again! Nothing but 'low' and 'little'!
HERMIA. 'Lower' hark, again.
HERMIA. 'Puppet!' why so? Ay, that way goes the game.
HERMIA. A privilege never to see me more.
HERMIA. And in the wood where often you and I
HERMIA. Be it so, Lysander: find you out a bed,
HERMIA. Belike for want of rain, which I could well
HERMIA. Dark night, that from the eye his function takes,
HERMIA. Do you not jest?
HERMIA. God speed fair Helena! Whither away?
HERMIA. His folly, Helena, is no fault of mine.
HERMIA. I am amaz'd, and know not what to say.            Exit
HERMIA. I am amazed at your passionate words;
HERMIA. I do entreat your Grace to pardon me.
HERMIA. I frown upon him, yet he loves me still.
HERMIA. I give him curses, yet he gives me love.
HERMIA. I pray thee, tell me then that he is well.
HERMIA. I understand not what you mean by this.
HERMIA. I would my father look'd but with my eyes.
HERMIA. If then true lovers have ever cross'd,
HERMIA. Lysander riddles very prettily.
HERMIA. Lysander, whereto tends all this?
HERMIA. Methinks I see these things with parted eye,
HERMIA. My good Lysander!
HERMIA. Nay, good Lysander; for my sake, my dear,
HERMIA. Never so weary, never so in woe,
HERMIA. Now I but chide, but I should use thee worse,
HERMIA. O cross! too high to be enthrall'd to low.
HERMIA. O hell! to choose love by another's eyes.
HERMIA. O me! you juggler! you cankerblossom!
HERMIA. O spite! too old to be engag'd to young.
HERMIA. Out, dog! out, cur! Thou driv'st me past the bounds
HERMIA. So is Lysander.
HERMIA. So will I grow, so live, so die, my lord,
HERMIA. Sweet, do not scorn her so.
HERMIA. Take comfort: he no more shall see my face;
HERMIA. The more I hate, the more he follows me.
HERMIA. What love could press Lysander from my side?
HERMIA. What! Can you do me greater harm than hate?
HERMIA. What! with Lysander?
HERMIA. What's this to my Lysander? Where is he?
HERMIA. Why are you grown so rude? What change is this,
HERMIA. Why, get you gone! Who is't that hinders you?
HERMIA. With half that wish the wisher's eyes be press'd!
HERMIA. Yea, and my father.
HERMIA. You speak not as you think; it cannot be.
HERMIA. You, mistress, all this coil is long of you.
HERMIA. [Starting] Help me, Lysander, help me; do thy best
HIPPOLYTA, Queen of the Amazons, bethrothed to Theseus
HIPPOLYTA. 'Tis strange, my Theseus, that these lovers speak of.
HIPPOLYTA. Beshrew my heart, but I pity the man.
HIPPOLYTA. But all the story of the night told over,
HIPPOLYTA. Four days will quickly steep themselves in night;
HIPPOLYTA. He says they can do nothing in this kind.
HIPPOLYTA. How chance Moonshine is gone before Thisby comes back
HIPPOLYTA. I am aweary of this moon. Would he would change!
HIPPOLYTA. I love not to see wretchedness o'er-charged,
HIPPOLYTA. I was with Hercules and Cadmus once
HIPPOLYTA. Indeed he hath play'd on this prologue like a child on a
HIPPOLYTA. It must be your imagination then, and not theirs.
HIPPOLYTA. Methinks she should not use a long one for such a
HIPPOLYTA. This is the silliest stuff that ever I heard.
HIPPOLYTA. Well shone, Moon. Truly, the moon shines with a good
HOST.  [Aside]  He is there. See what humour he is in; and
HOST. And I will provoke him to't, or let him wag.
HOST. And, moreover, bully-but first:  [Aside to the others]
HOST. Ay, come; quick.
HOST. Bless thee, bully doctor!
HOST. Disarm them, and let them question; let them keep
HOST. Farewell, my hearts; I will to my honest knight
HOST. For the which I will be thy adversary toward Anne
HOST. Ha! a fat woman? The knight may be robb'd. I'll call.
HOST. He will clapper-claw thee tightly, bully.
HOST. Here's a Bohemian-Tartar tarries the coming down of
HOST. Here, Master Doctor, in perplexity and doubtful
HOST. Hue and cry, villain, go! Assist me, knight; I am
HOST. I will hear you, Master Fenton; and I will, at the least,
HOST. Let him die. Sheathe thy impatience; throw cold water
HOST. Let us wag, then.
HOST. Master Fenton, talk not to me; my mind is heavy; I
HOST. Mockwater, in our English tongue, is valour, bully.
HOST. Pardon, Guest Justice. A word, Mounseur Mockwater.
HOST. Peace, I say, Gallia and Gaul, French and Welsh,
HOST. Peace, I say. Hear mine host of the Garter. Am I
HOST. That is, he will make thee amends.
HOST. There's his chamber, his house, his castle, his
HOST. They are gone but to meet the Duke, villain; do not
HOST. They shall have my horses, but I'll make them pay;
HOST. Thou art a Castalion-King-Urinal. Hector of Greece,
HOST. Thou art clerkly, thou art clerkly, Sir John. Was
HOST. To see thee fight, to see thee foin, to see thee traverse;
HOST. Well, husband your device; I'll to the vicar.
HOST. What duke should that be comes so secretly? I hear
HOST. What is the matter, sir?
HOST. What say you to young Master Fenton? He capers,
HOST. What wouldst thou have, boor? What, thick-skin?
HOST. Where be my horses? Speak well of them, varletto.
HOST. Which means she to deceive, father or mother?
Hero, daughter to Leonato.
Hero. 'True!' O God!
Hero. And bid her come hither.
Hero. And here's another,
Hero. And seem'd I ever otherwise to you?
Hero. And when I liv'd I was your other wife;       [Unmasks.]
Hero. Fie upon thee! art not ashamed?
Hero. God give me joy to wear it! for my heart is exceeding heavy.
Hero. Good Margaret, run thee to the parlour.
Hero. Good Ursula, wake my cousin Beatrice and desire her to rise.
Hero. Good morrow, coz.
Hero. He is of a very melancholy disposition.
Hero. He is the only man of Italy,
Hero. Help to dress me, good coz, good Meg, good Ursula.
Hero. I do.
Hero. I may say so when I please.
Hero. I talk'd with no man at that hour, my lord.
Hero. I will do any modest office, my lord, to help my cousin to a
Hero. If it prove so, then loving goes by haps;
Hero. Indeed he hath an excellent good name.
Hero. Is it not Hero? Who can blot that name
Hero. Is my lord well that he doth speak so wide?
Hero. My cousin means Signior Benedick of Padua.
Hero. My cousin's a fool, and thou art another. I'll wear none but
Hero. No, not to be so odd, and from all fashions,
Hero. No, pray thee, good Meg, I'll wear this.
Hero. No; rather I will go to Benedick
Hero. None, my lord.
Hero. Nothing certainer.
Hero. Now, Ursula, when Beatrice doth come,
Hero. O god of love! I know he doth deserve
Hero. O, God defend me! How am I beset!
Hero. O, that exceeds, they say.
Hero. So says the Prince, and my new-trothed lord.
Hero. So you walk softly and look sweetly and say nothing,
Hero. Then go we near her, that her ear lose nothing
Hero. There thou prick'st her with a thistle.
Hero. These gloves the Count sent me, they are an excellent
Hero. They did entreat me to acquaint her of it;
Hero. They know that do accuse me; I know none.
Hero. When I like your favour, for God defend the lute should be
Hero. Why then, your visor should be thatch'd.
Hero. Why, every day to-morrow! Come, go in.
Hero. Why, how now? Do you speak in the sick tune?
Hero. Why, you speak truth. I never yet saw man,
IAGO, ensign to Othello
IAGO. 'Sblood, but you will not hear me.
IAGO. Despise me, if I do not. Three great ones of the city,
John. A proper squire! And who? and who? which way looks he?
John. A very forward March-chick! How came you to this?
John. And when I have heard it, what blessings brings it?
John. Any bar, any cross, any impediment will be med'cinable to me.
John. Are you not Signior Benedick?
John. Come let us go. These things, come thus to light,
John. Come, come, let us thither. This may prove food to my
John. Come, let us to the banquet.
John. Even she--Leonato's Hero, your Hero, every man's Hero.
John. Fie, fie! they are not to be nam'd, my lord--
John. Grow this to what adverse issue it can, I will put it in
John. I came hither to tell you, and, circumstances short'ned (for
John. I had rather be a canker in a hedge than a rose in his grace,
John. I heard him swear his affection.
John. I know not that, when he knows what I know.
John. I make all use of it, for I use it only.
John. I remember.
John. I thank you. I am not of many words, but I thank you.
John. I will disparage her no farther till you are my witnesses.
John. I will presently go learn their day of marriage.
John. I wonder that thou (being, as thou say'st thou art, born
John. If it please you. Yet Count Claudio may hear, for what I
John. If you dare not trust that you see, confess not that you
John. If your leisure serv'd, I would speak with you.
John. It is so. The Count Claudio shall marry the daughter of
John. Let us to the great supper. Their cheer is the greater that
John. My lord and brother, God save you.
John. O plague right well prevented!
John. Only to despite them I will endeavour anything.
John. Show me briefly how.
John. Signior, you are very near my brother in his love. He is
John. Sir, they are spoken, and these things are true.
John. Sure my brother is amorous on Hero and hath withdrawn her
John. The word is too good to paint out her wickedness. I could say
John. There is no measure in the occasion that breeds; therefore
John. What life is in that to be the death of this marriage?
John. What proof shall I make of that?
John. Who? the most exquisite Claudio?
John. Will it serve for any model to build mischief on?
John. You may think I love you not. Let that appear hereafter, and
John. [to Claudio] Means your lordship to be married tomorrow?
LION. You, ladies, you, whose gentle hearts do fear
LION. [Roaring] O-                           [THISBY runs off]
LODOVICO, nobleman of Venice, kinsman of Brabantio
LYSANDER, in love with Hermia
LYSANDER. A good persuasion; therefore, hear me, Hermia.
LYSANDER. Amen, amen, to that fair prayer say I;
LYSANDER. And he did bid us follow to the temple.
LYSANDER. And so the lion vanish'd.
LYSANDER. Away, you Ethiope!
LYSANDER. Ay me! for aught that I could ever read,
LYSANDER. Ay, by my life!
LYSANDER. Be not afraid; she shall not harm thee, Helena.
LYSANDER. Content with Hermia! No: I do repent
LYSANDER. Demetrius loves her, and he loves not you.
LYSANDER. Demetrius, I will keep my word with thee.
LYSANDER. Fair love, you faint with wand'ring in the wood;
LYSANDER. Get you gone, you dwarf;
LYSANDER. Hang off, thou cat, thou burr; vile thing, let loose,
LYSANDER. He goes before me, and still dares me on;
LYSANDER. He hath rid his prologue like a rough colt; he knows not
LYSANDER. Helen, it is not so.
LYSANDER. Helen, to you our minds we will unfold:
LYSANDER. How now, my love! Why is your cheek so pale?
LYSANDER. I am, my lord, as well deriv'd as he,
LYSANDER. I hod no judgment when to her I swore.
LYSANDER. I will be with thee straight.
LYSANDER. I will, my Hermia. [Exit HERMIA] Helena, adieu;
LYSANDER. If thou say so, withdraw, and prove it too.
LYSANDER. Keep promise, love. Look, here comes Helena.
LYSANDER. Less than an ace, man; for he is dead; he is nothing.
LYSANDER. Lysander's love, that would not let him bide-
LYSANDER. More than to us
LYSANDER. My lord, I shall reply amazedly,
LYSANDER. Now she holds me not.
LYSANDER. O, take the sense, sweet, of my innocence!
LYSANDER. One turf shall serve as pillow for us both;
LYSANDER. Or else it stood upon the choice of friends-
LYSANDER. Or else misgraffed in respect of years-
LYSANDER. Or, if there were a sympathy in choice,
LYSANDER. Pardon, my lord.
LYSANDER. Proceed, Moon.
LYSANDER. She hath spied him already with those sweet eyes.
LYSANDER. She sees not Hermia. Hermia, sleep thou there;
LYSANDER. Stay, gentle Helena; hear my excuse;
LYSANDER. This lion is a very fox for his valour.
LYSANDER. Thou canst compel no more than she entreat;
LYSANDER. Thy love! Out, tawny Tartar, out!
LYSANDER. What, should I hurt her, strike her, kill her dead?
LYSANDER. Where art thou, proud Demetrius? Speak thou now.
LYSANDER. Why should he stay whom love doth press to go?
LYSANDER. Why should you think that I should woo in scorn?
LYSANDER. You are unkind, Demetrius; be not so;
LYSANDER. You have her father's love, Demetrius;
LYSANDER. [Waking] And run through fire I will for thy sweet sake.
Leon. A kind overflow of kindness. There are no faces truer than
Leon. A victory is twice itself when the achiever brings home full
Leon. All this is so; but what of this, my lord?
Leon. All thy tediousness on me, ah?
Leon. Are these things spoken, or do I but dream?
Leon. Are they good?
Leon. Art thou the slave that with thy breath hast kill'd
Leon. As freely, son, as God did give her me.
Leon. Being that I flow in grief,
Leon. Brief, I pray you; for you see it is a busy time with me.
Leon. Brother Anthony--
Leon. Brother--
Leon. But, brother Anthony--
Leon. By my troth, my lord, I cannot tell what to think of it, but
Leon. By my troth, niece, thou wilt never get thee a husband if
Leon. Call her forth, brother. Here's the friar ready.
Leon. Canst thou so daff me? Thou hast kill'd my child.
Leon. Come, Friar Francis, be brief. Only to the plain form of
Leon. Come, cousin, I am sure you love the gentleman.
Leon. Confirm'd, confirm'd! O, that is stronger made
Leon. Count, take of me my daughter, and with her my fortunes. His
Leon. Cousin, you apprehend passing shrewdly.
Leon. Daughter, remember what I told you. If the Prince do solicit
Leon. Dear my lord, if you, in your own proof,
Leon. Did he break out into tears?
Leon. Dost thou look up?
Leon. Drink some wine ere you go. Fare you well.
Leon. Faith, niece, you tax Signior Benedick too much; but he'll
Leon. Friar, it cannot be.
Leon. Go, I discharge thee of thy prisoner, and I thank thee.
Leon. Good morrow, Prince; good morrow, Claudio.
Leon. Hath no man's dagger here a point for me?
Leon. Hath the fellow any wit that told you this?
Leon. He hath an uncle here in Messina will be very much glad of it.
Leon. Hear you, my lords!
Leon. Her mother hath many times told me so.
Leon. How many gentlemen have you lost in this action?
Leon. How now, brother? Where is my cousin your son? Hath he
Leon. I cannot bid you bid my daughter live-
Leon. I charge thee do so, as thou art my child.
Leon. I dare make his answer--none.
Leon. I know not. If they speak but truth of her,
Leon. I learn in this letter that Don Pedro of Arragon comes this
Leon. I must leave you.
Leon. I pray thee cease thy counsel,
Leon. I pray thee peace. I will be flesh and blood;
Leon. I thank thee for thy care and honest pains.
Leon. I would fain know what you have to say.
Leon. I would have sworn it had, my lord--especially against
Leon. I'll wait upon them. I am ready.
Leon. If he do fear God, 'a must necessarily keep peace. If he
Leon. If you swear, my lord, you shall not be forsworn. [To Don
Leon. Indeed he looks younger than he did, by the loss of a beard.
Leon. Indeed, neighbour, he comes too short of you.
Leon. Marry, thou dost wrong me, thou dissembler, thou!
Leon. My heart is with your liking.
Leon. My lord, I am for you, though it cost me ten nights'
Leon. My lord, my lord,
Leon. My lord, my lord--
Leon. My lord, will you .walk? Dinner is ready.
Leon. Nay, that's impossible; she may wear her heart out first.
Leon. Neighbours, you are tedious.
Leon. Never came trouble to my house in the likeness of your Grace;
Leon. Niece, will you look to those things I told you of?
Leon. No, and swears she never will. That's her torment.
Leon. No, no. We will hold it as a dream till it appear itself; but
Leon. No, nor I neither; but most wonderful that she should so dote
Leon. No, not so, villain! thou beliest thyself.
Leon. No, that you shall not till you take her hand
Leon. No? Come, brother, away!--I will be heard.
Leon. Not till Monday, my dear son, which is hence a just
Leon. O Fate, take not away thy heavy hand!
Leon. O God, counterfeit? There was never counterfeit of passion
Leon. O Lord, my lord! if they were but a week married, they would
Leon. O, by no means! She mocks all her wooers out of suit.
Leon. O, my lord, wisdom and blood combating in so tender a body,
Leon. O, she tore the letter into a thousand halfpence, rail'd at
Leon. O, when she had writ it, and was reading it over, she found
Leon. Please it your Grace lead on?
Leon. She died, my lord, but whiles her slander liv'd.
Leon. She doth indeed; my daughter says so. And the ecstasy hath so
Leon. Signior Benedick, no; for then were you a child.
Leon. So are the Prince and Claudio, who accus'd her
Leon. So say I. Methinks you are sadder.
Leon. So, by being too curst, God will send you no horns.
Leon. Some haste, my lord! well, fare you well, my lord.
Leon. Sweet Prince, why speak not you?
Leon. Take their examination yourself and bring it me. I am now in
Leon. That eye my daughter lent her. 'Tis most true.
Leon. The revellers are ent'ring, brother. Make good room.
Leon. The sight whereof I think you had from me,
Leon. Then half Signior Benedick's tongue in Count John's mouth,
Leon. There thou speak'st reason. Nay, I will do so.
Leon. There's for thy pains. [Gives money.]
Leon. There's little of the melancholy element in her, my lord. She
Leon. Thine, Claudio; thine I say.
Leon. This says she now when she is beginning to write to him; for
Leon. To be married to her. Friar, you come to marry her.
Leon. To-morrow then I will expect your coming;
Leon. Tush, tush, man! never fleer and jest at me
Leon. Until to-morrow morning, lords, farewell.
Leon. Was not Count John here at supper?
Leon. We'll have dancing afterward.
Leon. Well then, go you into hell?
Leon. Well, daughter, and you gentlewomen all,
Leon. Well, niece, I hope to see you one day fitted with a husband.
Leon. Were it good, think you?
Leon. What do you mean, my lord?
Leon. What effects, my lord? She will sit you--you heard my
Leon. What is he that you ask for, niece?
Leon. What is it, my good friends?
Leon. What shall become of this? What will this do?
Leon. What would you with me, honest neighbour?
Leon. Where is but a humour or a worm.
Leon. Wherefore? Why, doth not every earthly thing
Leon. Which is the villain? Let me see his eyes,
Leon. You may light on a husband that hath no beard.
Leon. You must not, sir, mistake my niece. There is a kind of merry
Leon. You will never run mad, niece.
Leon. [to the Watch] Bring you these fellows on.--We'll talk with
Leonato, Governor of Messina.
Lord. It is, my lord.
MONTANO, a Cypriot official
MOON. All that I have to say is to tell you that the lanthorn is
MOONSHINE. This lanthorn doth the horned moon present-
MOONSHINE. This lanthorn doth the horned moon present;
MOTH, fairy
MOTH. And I.
MOTH. Hail!
MRS. FORD. 'Tis not so, I hope.
MRS. FORD. A plain kerchief, Sir John; my brows become
MRS. FORD. And till he tell the truth,
MRS. FORD. Are you not asham'd? Let the clothes alone.
MRS. FORD. Believe me, there's no such thing in me.
MRS. FORD. But is my husband coming?
MRS. FORD. Devise but how you'll use him when he comes,
MRS. FORD. Do not betray me, sir; I fear you love Mistress
MRS. FORD. Do so. Go tell thy master I am alone.  [Exit
MRS. FORD. Go to, then; we'll use this unwholesome
MRS. FORD. Go, go, sweet Sir John. Mistress Page and I will
MRS. FORD. Go, sirs, take the basket again on your shoulders;
MRS. FORD. He will seek there, on my word. Neither press,
MRS. FORD. He's a-birding, sweet Sir John.
MRS. FORD. He's too big to go in there. What shall I do?
MRS. FORD. Heaven be my witness, you do, if you suspect
MRS. FORD. Heaven forgive our sins!
MRS. FORD. Heaven make you better than your thoughts!
MRS. FORD. Here, set it down.
MRS. FORD. How might we disguise him?
MRS. FORD. How near is he, Mistress Page?
MRS. FORD. How now, my eyas-musket, what news with
MRS. FORD. I am half afraid he will have need of washing; so
MRS. FORD. I am undone: the knight is here.
MRS. FORD. I ha' told them over and over; they lack no
MRS. FORD. I know not which pleases me better, that my
MRS. FORD. I think my husband hath some special suspicion
MRS. FORD. I warrant. What, Robin, I say!
MRS. FORD. I would my husband would meet him in this
MRS. FORD. I your lady, Sir John? Alas, I should be a pitiful
MRS. FORD. I'll first direct my men what they shall do with
MRS. FORD. I'll warrant they'll have him publicly sham'd;
MRS. FORD. If you find a man there, he shall die a flea's
MRS. FORD. Marry, as I told you before, John and Robert, be
MRS. FORD. Marry, this is our device-
MRS. FORD. Mistress Page is come with me, sweetheart.
MRS. FORD. My Maid's aunt, the fat woman of Brainford, has
MRS. FORD. Nay, I must tell you, so you do; or else I could
MRS. FORD. Nay, by th' mass, that he did not; he beat him
MRS. FORD. Nay, good sweet husband! Good gentlemen, let
MRS. FORD. Nay, he will do it. 'Tis a goodly credit for you.
MRS. FORD. No, certainly.  [Aside to her]  Speak louder.
MRS. FORD. O sweet Sir John!
MRS. FORD. Pray you, do so; she's a very tattling woman.
MRS. FORD. Shall we send that foolish carrion, Mistress
MRS. FORD. Shall we tell our husbands how we have serv'd
MRS. FORD. Sir John! Art thou there, my deer, my male deer.
MRS. FORD. Sir John, we have had ill luck; we could never
MRS. FORD. Step into th' chamber, Sir John.      Exit FALSTAFF
MRS. FORD. That cannot choose but amaze him.
MRS. FORD. The hour draws on. To the oak, to the oak!
MRS. FORD. There they always use to discharge their
MRS. FORD. We'll betray him finely.
MRS. FORD. We'll try that; for I'll appoint my men to carry
MRS. FORD. Well, heaven knows how I love you; and you
MRS. FORD. What cause of suspicion?
MRS. FORD. What shall I do? There is a gentleman, my dear
MRS. FORD. What think you? May we, with the warrant of
MRS. FORD. What's the matter, good Mistress Page?
MRS. FORD. What, John! Robert! John!                Exit ROBIN
MRS. FORD. What, John! what, Robert!
MRS. FORD. What, hoa, Mistress Page! Come you and the old
MRS. FORD. Where is Nan now, and her troop of fairies, and
MRS. FORD. Which way should he go? How should I bestow
MRS. FORD. Why, alas, what's the matter?
MRS. FORD. Why, does he talk of him?
MRS. FORD. Why, it is my maid's aunt of Brainford.
MRS. FORD. Why, man, why?
MRS. FORD. Why, none but mine own people.
MRS. FORD. Why, what have you to do whither they bear it?
MRS. FORD. Why?
MRS. FORD. You use me well, Master Ford, do you?
MRS. FORD. } Away, away.
MRS. PAGE.  [Aside to MRS. FORD]  Heard you that?
MRS. PAGE.  [Aside]  Doctors doubt that; if Anne Page be
MRS. PAGE.  [Within]  What hoa, gossip Ford, what hoa!
MRS. PAGE. A puff'd man?
MRS. PAGE. Adieu, good Sir Hugh.                 Exit SIR HUGH
MRS. PAGE. Against such lewdsters and their lechery,
MRS. PAGE. Alas the day, I know not! There is no woman's
MRS. PAGE. Alas, three of Master Ford's brothers watch the
MRS. PAGE. Alas, what noise?
MRS. PAGE. Are you not asham'd? I think you have kill'd the
MRS. PAGE. Ay, in good sadness is he; and talks of the basket
MRS. PAGE. Be sure of that-two other husbands.
MRS. PAGE. By your leave, sir. I am sick till I see her.
MRS. PAGE. Come on, sirrah; hold up your head; answer your
MRS. PAGE. Come, Mother Prat; come. give me your hand.
MRS. PAGE. Come, come, come.
MRS. PAGE. Come, to the forge with it then; shape it. I
MRS. PAGE. Come, trouble not yourself. Good Master
MRS. PAGE. Creep into the kiln-hole.
MRS. PAGE. Fare you well, sir.  [Exit CAIUS]  My husband
MRS. PAGE. Fear not you that. Go get us properties
MRS. PAGE. For shame, never stand 'you had rather' and 'you
MRS. PAGE. Give your men the charge; we must be brief.
MRS. PAGE. Go, Mistress Ford.
MRS. PAGE. Good George, be not angry. I knew of your
MRS. PAGE. Good Master Fenton, come not to my child.
MRS. PAGE. Hang him, dishonest rascal! I would all of the
MRS. PAGE. Hang him, dishonest varlet! we cannot misuse
MRS. PAGE. Hard by, at street end; he will be here anon.
MRS. PAGE. He is a better scholar than I thought he was.
MRS. PAGE. He, he; I can never hit on's name. There is such
MRS. PAGE. Heaven guide him to thy husband's cudgel; and
MRS. PAGE. Help to cover your master, boy. Call your men,
MRS. PAGE. Here comes little Robin.
MRS. PAGE. How now, sweetheart, who's at home besides
MRS. PAGE. I Will lay a plot to try that, and we will yet have
MRS. PAGE. I cannot tell what the dickens his name is my
MRS. PAGE. I mean it not; I seek you a better husband.
MRS. PAGE. I pray you, come, hold up the jest no higher.
MRS. PAGE. I warrant thee; if I do not act it, hiss me.
MRS. PAGE. I'll be with her by and by; I'll but bring my
MRS. PAGE. I'll have the cudgel hallow'd and hung o'er the
MRS. PAGE. If he be not amaz'd, he will be mock'd; if he be
MRS. PAGE. If you go out in your own semblance, you die,
MRS. PAGE. Indeed?
MRS. PAGE. Is he at Master Ford's already, think'st thou?
MRS. PAGE. Is there not a double excellency in this?
MRS. PAGE. Master Doctor, my daughter is in green; when
MRS. PAGE. My Nan shall be the Queen of all the Fairies,
MRS. PAGE. Nay, but he'll be here presently; let's go dress
MRS. PAGE. Nay, keep your way, little gallant; you were
MRS. PAGE. O Mistress Ford, what have you done? You're
MRS. PAGE. O well-a-day, Mistress Ford, having an honest
MRS. PAGE. O, you are a flattering boy; now I see you'll be a
MRS. PAGE. Of none but him; and swears he was carried out,
MRS. PAGE. On my word, it will serve him; she's as big as he
MRS. PAGE. Peace.
MRS. PAGE. Pray heaven it be not so that you have such a
MRS. PAGE. Prithee hold thy peace.
MRS. PAGE. Quick, quick; we'll come dress you straight. Put
MRS. PAGE. Quickly, quickly! Is the buck-basket-
MRS. PAGE. Sir Hugh, my husband says my son profits
MRS. PAGE. That likewise have we thought upon, and
MRS. PAGE. The spirit of wantonness is sure scar'd out of
MRS. PAGE. The truth being known,
MRS. PAGE. There is an old tale goes that Heme the Hunter,
MRS. PAGE. They are all couch'd in a pit hard by Heme's
MRS. PAGE. Thou 'rt a good boy; this secrecy of thine shall
MRS. PAGE. Truly, I am so glad you have nobody here.
MRS. PAGE. Truly, sir, to see your wife. Is she at home?
MRS. PAGE. Trust me, he beat him most pitifully.
MRS. PAGE. We will do it; let him be sent for to-morrow
MRS. PAGE. Well, I will muse no further. Master Fenton,
MRS. PAGE. What a taking was he in when your husband
MRS. PAGE. What cause of suspicion? Out upon you, how
MRS. PAGE. What, Sir John Falstaff!      [Aside to FALSTAFF]
MRS. PAGE. Why went you not with Master Doctor, maid?
MRS. PAGE. Why, Sir John, do you think, though we would
MRS. PAGE. Why, did you take her in green?
MRS. PAGE. Why, then, you are utterly sham'd, and he's but
MRS. PAGE. Why, woman, your husband is in his old lunes
MRS. PAGE. Within a quarter of an hour.
MRS. PAGE. Yes, by all means; if it be but to scrape the
MRS. PAGE. You do yourself mighty wrong, Master Ford.
MRS. PAGE. You little Jack-a-Lent, have you been true to us?
MRS. PAGE. Your husband's coming hither, woman, with all
MRS. PAGE. } Away, away.                        [They run off]
MUSTARDSEED, fairy
MUSTARDSEED. And I.
MUSTARDSEED. Hail!
MUSTARDSEED. Mustardseed.
MUSTARDSEED. Ready.
MUSTARDSEED. What's your will?
Marg. 'Twill be heavier soon by the weight of a man.
Marg. A maid, and stuff'd! There's goodly catching of cold.
Marg. And God keep him out of my sight when the dance is done!
Marg. And yours as blunt as the fencer's foils, which hit but hurt
Marg. By my troth, 's but a nightgown in respect of yours--
Marg. By my troth, 's not so good, and I warrant your cousin will
Marg. Clap's into 'Light o' love.' That goes without a burden. Do
Marg. Ever since you left it. Doth not my wit become me rarely?
Marg. For a hawk, a horse, or a husband?
Marg. Get you some of this distill'd carduus benedictus and lay it
Marg. Give us the swords; we have bucklers of our own.
Marg. God match me with a good dancer!
Marg. I like the new tire within excellently, if the hair were a
Marg. I say my prayers aloud.
Marg. I'll make her come, I warrant you, presently.    [Exit.]
Marg. Moral? No, by my troth, I have no moral meaning; I meant
Marg. Not a false gallop.
Marg. Nothing I; but God send every one their heart's desire!
Marg. O illegitimate construction! I scorn that with my heels.
Marg. Of what, lady? of speaking honourably? Is not marriage
Marg. So would not I for your own sake, for I have many ill
Marg. To have no man come over me? Why, shall I always keep below
Marg. Troth, I think your other rebato were better.
Marg. Well, I will call Beatrice to you, who I think hath legs.
Marg. Well, an you be not turn'd Turk, there's no more sailing by
Marg. Will you then write me a sonnet in praise of my beauty?
Margaret, waiting gentlewoman attending on Hero.
Mess. A lord to a lord, a man to a man; stuff'd with all honourable
Mess. And a good soldier too, lady.
Mess. But few of any sort, and none of name.
Mess. Don Pedro is approach'd.
Mess. He hath done good service, lady, in these wars.
Mess. He is most in the company of the right noble Claudio.
Mess. He is very near by this. He was not three leagues off when I
Mess. I have already delivered him letters, and there appears much
Mess. I know none of that name, lady. There was none such in the
Mess. I see, lady, the gentleman is not in your books.
Mess. I will hold friends with you, lady.
Mess. In great measure.
Mess. Is't possible?
Mess. Much deserv'd on his part, and equally rememb'red by Don
Mess. My lord, they stay for you to give your daughter to her
Mess. My lord, your brother John is ta'en in flight,
Mess. O, he's return'd, and as pleasant as ever he was.
Messengers, Watch, Attendants, etc.
Mrs. PAGE. You will do it?
OBERON, King of the Fairies
OBERON.       Flower of this purple dye,
OBERON.       Stand aside. The noise they make
OBERON.     Then, my Queen, in silence sad,
OBERON.    Now, until the break of day,
OBERON.    Through the house give glimmering light,
OBERON. About the wood go swifter than the wind,
OBERON. But we are spirits of another sort:
OBERON. Do you amend it, then; it lies in you.
OBERON. Fare thee well, nymph; ere he do leave this grove,
OBERON. Give me that boy and I will go with thee.
OBERON. Having once this juice,
OBERON. How canst thou thus, for shame, Titania,
OBERON. How long within this wood intend you stay?
OBERON. I pray thee give it me.
OBERON. I wonder if Titania be awak'd;
OBERON. Ill met by moonlight, proud Titania.
OBERON. Silence awhile. Robin, take off this head.
OBERON. Sound, music. Come, my Queen, take hands with me,
OBERON. Stand close; this is the same Athenian.
OBERON. Tarry, rash wanton; am not I thy lord?
OBERON. That very time I saw, but thou couldst not,
OBERON. There lies your love.
OBERON. This falls out better than I could devise.
OBERON. This is thy negligence. Still thou mistak'st,
OBERON. Thou seest these lovers seek a place to fight.
OBERON. Well, go thy way; thou shalt not from this grove
OBERON. What hast thou done? Thou hast mistaken quite,
OBERON. What thou seest when thou dost wake,
OBERON. [Advancing] Welcome, good Robin. Seest thou this sweet
OTHELLO, the Moor, general of the Venetian forces
Other Fairies attending their King and Queen
PAGE, SHALLOW, and SLENDER. Adieu, good Master Doctor.
PAGE.  [Aside]  Sir Hugh is there, is he?
PAGE. 'Tis true, Master Shallow.
PAGE. 'Tis well, 'tis well; no more.
PAGE. And as poor as Job?
PAGE. And did he send you both these letters at an instant?
PAGE. And youthful still, in your doublet and hose, this raw
PAGE. Come, come; we'll couch i' th' Castle ditch till we
PAGE. Fie, fie, Master Ford, are you not asham'd? What
PAGE. Good Master Ford, be contented; you wrong yourself
PAGE. Here's no man.
PAGE. How? To send him word they'll meet him in the Park
PAGE. I think you know him: Master Doctor Caius, the
PAGE. I warrant you, he's the man should fight with him.
PAGE. Let's go in, gentlemen; but, trust me, we'll mock him.
PAGE. Let's obey his humour a little further. Come,
PAGE. Master Shallow, you have yourself been a great fighter,
PAGE. My heart misgives me; here comes Master Fenton.
PAGE. Nay, do not fly; I think we have watch'd you now.
PAGE. Nay, follow him, gentlemen; see the issue of his
PAGE. Nay, good Master Parson, keep in your weapon.
PAGE. No, good Master Fenton.
PAGE. No, nor nowhere else but in your brain.
PAGE. Not by my consent, I promise you. The gentleman is
PAGE. Now, Master Slender! Love him, daughter Anne-
PAGE. Now, Mistress, how chance you went not with Master
PAGE. Now, good Master Doctor!
PAGE. Of what, son?
PAGE. Old, cold, wither'd, and of intolerable entrails?
PAGE. Save you, good Sir Hugh!
PAGE. She is no match for you.
PAGE. So think I too.
PAGE. Son, how now! how now, son! Have you dispatch'd'?
PAGE. That silk will I go buy.  [Aside]  And in that time
PAGE. The night is dark; light and spirits will become it well.
PAGE. This passes!
PAGE. Upon my life, then, you took the wrong.
PAGE. We are come to you to do a good office, Master
PAGE. Well, let it not be doubted but he'll come,
PAGE. Well, what remedy? Fenton, heaven give thee joy!
PAGE. Why yet there want not many that do fear
PAGE. Why, this is your own folly. Did not I tell you how
PAGE. Why, this passes, Master Ford; you are not to go loose
PAGE. Why?
PAGE. Yet be cheerful, knight; thou shalt eat a posset
PAGE. Yonder is a most reverend gentleman, who, belike having
PAGE. You have, Master Slender; I stand wholly for you. But
PEASEBLOSSOM, fairy
PEASEBLOSSOM. Hail, mortal!
PEASEBLOSSOM. Peaseblossom.
PEASEBLOSSOM. Ready.
PEASEBLOSSOM. Ready.
PHILOSTRATE, Master of the Revels to Theseus
PHILOSTRATE. A play there is, my lord, some ten words long,
PHILOSTRATE. Hard-handed men that work in Athens here,
PHILOSTRATE. Here, mighty Theseus.
PHILOSTRATE. No, my noble lord,
PHILOSTRATE. SO please your Grace, the Prologue is address'd.
PHILOSTRATE. There is a brief how many sports are ripe;
PISTOL.  [Aside]  This punk is one of Cupid's carriers;
PROLOGUE, PYRAMUS, THISBY, WALL, MOONSHINE, LION are presented by:
PROLOGUE. Gentles, perchance you wonder at this show;
PROLOGUE. If we offend, it is with our good will.
PUCK, or ROBIN GOODFELLOW
PUCK.          On the ground
PUCK.         Captain of our fairy band,
PUCK.         Then will two at once woo one.
PUCK.       Fairy King, attend and mark;
PUCK.       Yet but three? Come one more;
PUCK.      If we shadows have offended,
PUCK.      Now the hungry lion roars,
PUCK.      Through the forest have I gone,
PUCK.      Up and down, up and down,
PUCK. A stranger Pyramus than e'er played here!           Exit
PUCK. A trial, come.
PUCK. Ay, there it is.
PUCK. Believe me, king of shadows, I mistook.
PUCK. Come hither; I am here.
PUCK. Elves, list your names; silence, you airy toys.
PUCK. Fear not, my lord; your servant shall do so.      Exeunt
PUCK. Follow me, then,
PUCK. Follow my voice; we'll try no manhood here.       Exeunt
PUCK. Here, villain, drawn and ready. Where art thou?
PUCK. Ho, ho, ho! Coward, why com'st thou not?
PUCK. How now, spirit! whither wander you?
PUCK. I go, I go; look how I go,
PUCK. I remember.
PUCK. I took him sleeping- that is finish'd too-
PUCK. I'll follow you; I'll lead you about a round,
PUCK. I'll put a girdle round about the earth
PUCK. My fairy lord, this must be done with haste,
PUCK. My mistress with a monster is in love.
PUCK. Now when thou wak'st with thine own fool's eyes peep.
PUCK. The King doth keep his revels here to-night;
PUCK. Then fate o'er-rules, that, one man holding troth,
PUCK. This is the woman, but not this the man.
PUCK. Thou coward, art thou bragging to the stars,
PUCK. Thou speakest aright:
PUCK. Vile worm, thou wast o'erlook'd even in thy birth.
PUCK. What hempen homespuns have we swagg'ring here,
PYRAMUS. I see a voice; now will I to the chink,
PYRAMUS. No, in truth, sir, he should not. Deceiving me is Thisby's
PYRAMUS. Not Shafalus to Procrus was so true.
PYRAMUS. O grim-look'd night! O night with hue so black!
PYRAMUS. O wherefore, Nature, didst thou lions frame?
PYRAMUS. O, kiss me through the hole of this vile wall.
PYRAMUS. Sweet Moon, I thank thee for thy sunny beams;
PYRAMUS. Think what thou wilt, I am thy lover's grace;
PYRAMUS. Wilt thou at Ninny's tomb meet me straightway?
Pedro. Amen, if you love her; for the lady is very well worthy.
Pedro. An he should, it were an alms to hang him! She's an
Pedro. And Benedick is not the unhopefullest husband that I know.
Pedro. And hath challeng'd thee.
Pedro. And so will he do; for the man doth fear God, howsoever it
Pedro. And when please you to say so?
Pedro. And you too, gentle Hero?
Pedro. And, as I wooed for thee to obtain her, I will join with
Pedro. As Hector, I assure you; and in the managing of quarrels you
Pedro. As I am an honest man, he looks pale. Art thou sick or
Pedro. But did my brother set thee on to this?
Pedro. But when shall we set the savage bull's horns on the
Pedro. But, soft you, let me be! Pluck up, my heart, and be sad!
Pedro. By my soul, nor I!
Pedro. By my troth, I speak my thought.
Pedro. By my troth, a good song.
Pedro. By my troth, a pleasant-spirited lady.
Pedro. By this light, he changes more and more. I think he be angry
Pedro. Come, Balthasar, we'll hear that song again.
Pedro. Come, lady, come; you have lost the heart of Signior
Pedro. Come, let us hence and put on other weeds,
Pedro. Come, shall we hear this music?
Pedro. Come, you shake the head at so long a breathing;
Pedro. County Claudio, when mean you to go to church?
Pedro. Do so. Farewell.
Pedro. Dost thou wear thy wit by thy side?
Pedro. Draw it.
Pedro. First, I ask thee what they have done; thirdly, I ask thee
Pedro. For my life, to break with him about Beatrice!
Pedro. Gentlemen both, we will not wake your patience.
Pedro. Good Signior Leonato, are you come to meet your trouble? The
Pedro. Good den, Good den.
Pedro. Good den, brother.
Pedro. Good morrow to this fair assembly.
Pedro. Good morrow, Benedick. Why, what's the matter
Pedro. Good morrow, masters. Put your torches out.
Pedro. Ha, no, no, faith! Thou sing'st well enough for a shift.
Pedro. Hang him, truant! There's no true drop of blood in him to be
Pedro. Hath any man seen him at the barber's?
Pedro. Hath she made her affection known to Benedick?
Pedro. He doth indeed show some sparks that are like wit.
Pedro. He hath indeed a good outward happiness.
Pedro. He is compos'd and fram'd of treachery,
Pedro. He is in earnest.
Pedro. How now? two of my brother's men bound? Borachio one.
Pedro. How then? sick?
Pedro. How, how, I pray you? You amaze me. I would have thought her
Pedro. I charge thee on thy allegiance.
Pedro. I do but stay till your marriage be consummate, and then go
Pedro. I shall see thee, ere I die, look pale with love.
Pedro. I will but teach them to sing and restore them to the owner.
Pedro. I will not hear you.
Pedro. I will not think it.
Pedro. I would she had bestowed this dotage on me. I would have
Pedro. I' faith, lady, I think your blazon to be true; though I'll
Pedro. I'll tell thee how Beatrice prais'd thy wit the other day. I
Pedro. In everything but in loving Benedick.
Pedro. In faith, lady, you have a merry heart.
Pedro. In private?
Pedro. Indeed that tells a heavy tale for him. Conclude, conclude,
Pedro. It is the witness still of excellency
Pedro. It were good that Benedick knew of it by some other, if she
Pedro. Lady Beatrice, I will get you one.
Pedro. Lady, will you walk a bout with your friend?
Pedro. Leonato and his brother. What think'st thou? Had we fought,
Pedro. Let there be the same net spread for her, and that must your
Pedro. Look, here she comes.
Pedro. May be she doth but counterfeit.
Pedro. My love is thine to teach. Teach it but how,
Pedro. My visor is Philemon's roof; within the house is Jove.
Pedro. Nay, 'a rubs himself with civet. Can you smell him out by
Pedro. Nay, do not quarrel with us, good old man.
Pedro. Nay, if Cupid have not spent all his quiver in Venice, thou
Pedro. Nay, pray thee come;
Pedro. Nay, that would be as great a soil in the new gloss of your
Pedro. No child but Hero; she's his only heir.
Pedro. None, but to desire your good company.
Pedro. Nothing, unless you render her again.
Pedro. Now, signior, where's the Count? Did you see him?
Pedro. O day untowardly turned!
Pedro. Officers, what offence have these men done?
Pedro. Runs not this speech like iron through your blood?
Pedro. See you where Benedick hath hid himself?
Pedro. See, see! Here comes the man we went to seek.
Pedro. She cannot endure to hear tell of a husband.
Pedro. She doth well. If she should make tender of her love, 'tis
Pedro. She shall be buried with her face upwards.
Pedro. She were an excellent wife for Benedick.
Pedro. Speak low if you speak love.         [Takes her aside.]
Pedro. That is the sum of all, Leonato. Signior Claudio and Signior
Pedro. That she is worthy, I know.
Pedro. That would I know too. I warrant, one that knows him not.
Pedro. The Lady Beatrice hath a quarrel to you. The gentleman that
Pedro. The former Hero! Hero that is dead!
Pedro. The greatest note of it is his melancholy.
Pedro. The sixth of July. Your loving friend, Benedick.
Pedro. There is no appearance of fancy in him, unless it be a fancy
Pedro. Thou wast ever an obstinate heretic in the despite of
Pedro. Thou wilt be like a lover presently
Pedro. To be whipt? What's his fault?
Pedro. We have some haste, Leonato.
Pedro. We will not fall.
Pedro. Welcome, signior. You are almost come to part almost a fray.
Pedro. Well, as time shall try.
Pedro. Well, if ever thou dost fall from this faith, thou wilt
Pedro. Well, we will hear further of it by your daughter. Let it
Pedro. Well, you will temporize with the hours. In the meantime,
Pedro. What a pretty thing man is when he goes in his doublet and
Pedro. What need the bridge much broader than the flood?
Pedro. What secret hath held you here, that you followed not to
Pedro. What should I speak?
Pedro. What's the matter?
Pedro. What, a feast, a feast?
Pedro. What? sigh for the toothache?
Pedro. Who have you offended, masters, that you are thus bound to
Pedro. Why, how now, Count? Wherefore are you sad?
Pedro. Why, then are you no maiden. Leonato,
Pedro. Why, these are very crotchets that he speaks!
Pedro. Why, what effects of passion shows she?
Pedro. Why, what's the matter?
Pedro. Will you have me, lady?
Pedro. Wilt thou make a trust a transgression? The transgression is
Pedro. With me in your company?
Pedro. Yea, marry. Dost thou hear, Balthasar? I pray thee get us
Pedro. Yea, or to paint himself? for the which I hear what they say
Pedro. Yea, that she did; but yet, for all that, an if she did not
Pedro. You embrace your charge too willingly. I think this is your
Pedro. You have it full, Benedick. We may guess by this what you
Pedro. You have put him down, lady; you have put him down.
Pedro. You know he does.
Pedro. You say not right, old man
Pedro. Your hand, Leonato. We will go together.
Pedro. Your silence most offends me, and to be merry best becomes
QUICKLY. 'Hang-hog' is Latin for bacon, I warrant you.
QUICKLY. Alas the day, good heart, that was not her fault!
QUICKLY. And have not they suffer'd? Yes, I warrant;
QUICKLY. And how does good Master Fenton? Pray you, a
QUICKLY. And that's a good root.
QUICKLY. Blessing of his heart!
QUICKLY. By your leave; I cry you mercy. Give your
QUICKLY. Eight and nine, sir.
QUICKLY. From the two parties, forsooth.
QUICKLY. Hark ye, Master Slender would speak a word
QUICKLY. I will tell her.
QUICKLY. I'll provide you a chain, and I'll do what I can to
QUICKLY. Marry, sir, I come to your worship from Mistress
QUICKLY. Now Heaven send thee good fortune!  [Exit
QUICKLY. Peace be with you, sir.                          Exit
QUICKLY. Polecats! There are fairer things than polecats,
QUICKLY. Sir, let me speak with you in your chamber; you
QUICKLY. Speak to Mistress Page.
QUICKLY. Sure he is by this; or will be presently; but truly
QUICKLY. That's my master, Master Doctor.
QUICKLY. This is my doing now: 'Nay,' said I 'will you cast
QUICKLY. Truly, I thought there had been one number
QUICKLY. Vengeance of Jenny's case; fie on her! Never
QUICKLY. Well, she laments, sir, for it, that it would yearn
QUICKLY. YOU do ill to teach the child such words. He
QUINCE, a carpenter
QUINCE. 'Ninus' tomb,' man! Why, you must not speak that yet; that
QUINCE. 'Odious'- odorous!
QUINCE. A lover, that kills himself most gallant for love.
QUINCE. An you should do it too terribly, you would fright the
QUINCE. Answer, as I call you. Nick Bottom, the weaver.
QUINCE. At the Duke's oak we meet.
QUINCE. Ay, marry, must you; for you must understand he goes but to
QUINCE. Ay; or else one must come in with a bush of thorns and a
QUINCE. Bless thee, Bottom, bless thee! Thou art translated.
QUINCE. Bottom! O most courageous day! O most happy hour!
QUINCE. Flute, you must take Thisby on you.
QUINCE. Francis Flute, the bellows-mender.
QUINCE. Have you sent to Bottom's house? Is he come home yet?
QUINCE. Here is the scroll of every man's name which is thought
QUINCE. If that may be, then all is well. Come, sit down, every
QUINCE. Is all our company here?
QUINCE. It is not possible. You have not a man in all Athens able
QUINCE. It is the lady that Pyramus must love.
QUINCE. Let us hear, sweet Bottom.
QUINCE. Marry, our play is 'The most Lamentable Comedy and most
QUINCE. No, no, you must play Pyramus; and, Flute, you Thisby.
QUINCE. O monstrous! O strange! We are haunted. Pray, masters! fly,
QUINCE. Pat, pat; and here's a marvellous convenient place for our
QUINCE. Robin Starveling, the tailor.
QUINCE. Robin Starveling, you must play Thisby's mother.
QUINCE. Some of your French crowns have no hair at all, and then
QUINCE. Speak, Pyramus. Thisby, stand forth.
QUINCE. That's all one; you shall play it in a mask, and you may
QUINCE. Well, it shall be so. But there is two hard things- that
QUINCE. Well, we will have such a prologue; and it shall be written
QUINCE. What sayest thou, bully Bottom?
QUINCE. Why, what you will.
QUINCE. Yea, and the best person too; and he is a very paramour for
QUINCE. Yes, it doth shine that night.
QUINCE. You can play no part but Pyramus; for Pyramus is a
QUINCE. You may do it extempore, for it is nothing but roaring.
QUINCE. You, Nick Bottom, are set down for Pyramus.
QUINCE. You, Pyramus' father; myself, Thisby's father; Snug, the
ROBIN.  [Within]  Mistress Ford, Mistress Ford! here's
ROBIN. Ay, I'll be sworn. My master knows not of your
ROBIN. I had rather, forsooth, go before you like a man than
ROBIN. My Master Sir John is come in at your back-door,
ROBIN. Sir John Falstaff.
ROBIN]  Mistress Page, remember you your cue.
RODERIGO, rejected suitor of Desdemona
RODERIGO. Thou told'st me thou didst hold him in thy hate.
RODERIGO. Tush, never tell me! I take it much unkindly
RUGBY. 'Tis past the hour, sir, that Sir Hugh promis'd to
RUGBY. Alas, sir, I cannot fence!
RUGBY. Forbear; here's company.
RUGBY. He is wise, sir; he knew your worship would kill
RUGBY. Sir?
SECOND FAIRY.  Weaving spiders, come not here;
SECOND SERVANT. Pray heaven it be not full of knight again.
SERVANT. To the laundress, forsooth.
SHALLOW, PAGE, &C. Well met, Master Ford.
SHALLOW.  [Aside]  We will do it.
SHALLOW. Be not dismay'd.
SHALLOW. Bodykins, Master Page, though I now be old, and
SHALLOW. Break their talk, Mistress Quickly; my kinsman
SHALLOW. By my fidelity, this is not well, Master Ford; this
SHALLOW. He is the wiser man, Master Doctor: he is a curer
SHALLOW. He will maintain you like a gentlewoman.
SHALLOW. He will make you a hundred and fifty pounds
SHALLOW. How now, Master Parson! Good morrow, good
SHALLOW. I have lived fourscore years and upward; I never
SHALLOW. I must excuse myself, Master Ford.
SHALLOW. Indeed, Master Ford, this is not well, indeed.
SHALLOW. It appears so, by his weapons. Keep them asunder;
SHALLOW. It will be found so, Master Page. Master Doctor
SHALLOW. Marry, I thank you for it; I thank you for that
SHALLOW. Mistress Anne, my cousin loves you.
SHALLOW. Save you, Master Doctor Caius!
SHALLOW. She's coming; to her, coz. O boy, thou hadst a
SHALLOW. So do you, good Master Doctor.
SHALLOW. That's good too; but what needs either your mum
SHALLOW. Trust me, a mad host. Follow, gentlemen, follow.
SHALLOW. We have linger'd about a match between Anne
SHALLOW. Well, fare you well; we shall have the freer
SHALLOW. What, the sword and the word! Do you study
SIMPLE. And what says she, I pray, sir?
SIMPLE. I may not conceal them, sir.
SIMPLE. I will, Sir.                                      Exit
SIMPLE. I would I could have spoken with the woman
SIMPLE. Marry, sir, I come to speak with Sir John Falstaff
SIMPLE. Marry, sir, the pittie-ward, the park-ward; every
SIMPLE. May I be bold to say so, sir?
SIMPLE. My master, sir, my Master Slender, sent to her,
SIMPLE. No weapons, sir. There comes my master, Master
SIMPLE. Pray you, sir, was't not the wise woman of
SIMPLE. There's an old woman, a fat woman, gone up into
SIMPLE. What sir?
SIMPLE. Yonder he is, coming this way, Sir Hugh.
SIMPLE., I thank your worship; I shall make my master glad
SLENDER.  [Aside]  Ah, sweet Anne Page!
SLENDER.  [Aside]  O sweet Anne Page!
SLENDER.  [Aside]  O sweet Anne Page!
SLENDER. And so must I, sir; we have appointed to dine with
SLENDER. Ay, forsooth; I have spoke with her, and we have
SLENDER. Ay, that I do; as well as I love any woman in
SLENDER. Ay, that I will come cut and longtail, under the
SLENDER. Dispatch'd! I'll make the best in Gloucestershire
SLENDER. Give you good morrow, sir.
SLENDER. I came yonder at Eton to marry Mistress Anne
SLENDER. I had a father, Mistress Anne; my uncle can tell
SLENDER. I hope I have your good will, father Page.
SLENDER. I went to her in white and cried 'mum' and she
SLENDER. I'll make a shaft or a bolt on 't; 'slid, 'tis but
SLENDER. My Will! 'Od's heartlings, that's a pretty jest
SLENDER. No, she shall not dismay me. I care not for that,
SLENDER. Now, good Mistress Anne-
SLENDER. Truly, for mine own part I would little or nothing
SLENDER. What need you tell me that? I think so, when I
SLENDER. Whoa, ho, ho, father Page!
SNOUT, a tinker
SNOUT. By'r lakin, a parlous fear.
SNOUT. Doth the moon shine that night we play our play?
SNOUT. Here, Peter Quince.
SNOUT. O Bottom, thou art chang'd! What do I see on thee?
SNOUT. Therefore another prologue must tell he is not a lion.
SNOUT. Will not the ladies be afeard of the lion?
SNOUT. You can never bring in a wall. What say you, Bottom?
SNUG, a joiner
SNUG. Have you the lion's part written? Pray you, if it be, give it
SNUG. Masters, the Duke is coming from the temple; and there is two
STARVELING, a tailor
STARVELING. He cannot be heard of. Out of doubt he is transported.
STARVELING. Here, Peter Quince.
STARVELING. I believe we must leave the killing out, when all is
STARVELING. I fear it, I promise you.
Senators, Sailors, Messengers, Officers, Gentlemen, Musicians, and
Sex. And this is more, masters, than you can deny. Prince John is
Sex. But which are the offenders that are to be examined? let them
Sex. Master Constable, you go not the way to examine. You must call
Sex. What else, fellow?
Sex. What else?
Sex. What heard you him say else?
Sex. Which be the malefactors?
THE DUKE OF VENICE
THE SONG.
THESEUS, Duke of Athens
THESEUS. 'The battle with the Centaurs, to be sung
THESEUS. A very gentle beast, and of a good conscience.
THESEUS. And we will hear it.
THESEUS. Come now; what masques, what dances shall we have,
THESEUS. Either to die the death, or to abjure
THESEUS. Fair lovers, you are fortunately met;
THESEUS. Go, Philostrate,
THESEUS. Go, bid the huntsmen wake them with their horns.
THESEUS. Go, one of you, find out the forester;
THESEUS. He is no crescent, and his horns are invisible within the
THESEUS. Here come the lovers, full of joy and mirth.
THESEUS. His discretion, I am sure, cannot carry his valour; for
THESEUS. His speech was like a tangled chain; nothing im paired,
THESEUS. I must confess that I have heard so much,
THESEUS. I pray you all, stand up.
THESEUS. I will hear that play;
THESEUS. I wonder if the lion be to speak.
THESEUS. If we imagine no worse of them than they of themselves,
THESEUS. In himself he is;
THESEUS. It appears, by his small light of discretion, that he is
THESEUS. Let him approach.              [Flourish of trumpets]
THESEUS. Moonshine and Lion are left to bury the dead.
THESEUS. More strange than true. I never may believe
THESEUS. My hounds are bred out of the Spartan kind,
THESEUS. No doubt they rose up early to observe
THESEUS. No epilogue, I pray you; for your play needs no excuse.
THESEUS. Now is the moon used between the two neighbours.
THESEUS. Now, fair Hippolyta, our nuptial hour
THESEUS. Pyramus draws near the wall; silence.
THESEUS. Rather your eyes must with his judgment look.
THESEUS. Say, what abridgment have you for this evening?
THESEUS. She will find him by starlight. Here she comes; and her
THESEUS. Take time to pause; and by the next new moon-
THESEUS. Thanks, good Egeus; what's the news with thee?
THESEUS. The best in this kind are but shadows; and the worst are
THESEUS. The kinder we, to give them thanks for nothing.
THESEUS. The wall, methinks, being sensible, should curse again.
THESEUS. This fellow doth not stand upon points.
THESEUS. This is the greatest error of all the rest; the man should
THESEUS. This passion, and the death of a dear friend, would go
THESEUS. True; and a goose for his discretion.
THESEUS. Well mous'd, Lion.
THESEUS. Well run, Thisby.
THESEUS. What are they that do play it?
THESEUS. What say you, Hermia? Be advis'd, fair maid.
THESEUS. Why, gentle sweet, you shall see no such thing.
THESEUS. With the help of a surgeon he might yet recover and yet
THESEUS. Would you desire lime and hair to speak better?
THISBY.      Asleep, my love?
THISBY. And I like Helen, till the Fates me kill.
THISBY. As Shafalus to Procrus, I to you.
THISBY. I kiss the wall's hole, not your lips at all.
THISBY. My love! thou art my love, I think.
THISBY. O wall, full often hast thou beard my moans,
THISBY. This is old Ninny's tomb. Where is my love?
THISBY. Tide life, tide death, I come without delay.
TITANIA, Queen of the Fairies
TITANIA.      First, rehearse your song by rote,
TITANIA.    Come, my lord; and in our flight,
TITANIA. Be kind and courteous to this gentleman;
TITANIA. Come now, a roundel and a fairy song;
TITANIA. Come, sit thee down upon this flow'ry bed,
TITANIA. Come, wait upon him; lead him to my bower.
TITANIA. How came these things to pass?
TITANIA. I have a venturous fairy that shall seek
TITANIA. I pray thee, gentle mortal, sing again.
TITANIA. Music, ho, music, such as charmeth sleep!
TITANIA. My Oberon! What visions have I seen!
TITANIA. Not for thy fairy kingdom. Fairies, away.
TITANIA. Or say, sweet love, what thou desirest to eat.
TITANIA. Out of this wood do not desire to go;
TITANIA. Perchance till after Theseus' wedding-day.
TITANIA. Set your heart at rest;
TITANIA. Sleep thou, and I will wind thee in my arms.
TITANIA. Then I must be thy lady; but I know
TITANIA. These are the forgeries of jealousy;
TITANIA. Thou art as wise as thou art beautiful.
TITANIA. What angel wakes me from my flow'ry bed?
TITANIA. What, jealous Oberon! Fairies, skip hence;
TITANIA. What, wilt thou hear some music, my sweet love?
Urs. And did they bid you tell her of it, madam?
Urs. But are you sure
Urs. Come, come, do you think I do not know you by your excellent
Urs. His excellence did earn it ere he had it.
Urs. I know you by the waggling of your head.
Urs. I know you well enough. You are Signior Antonio.
Urs. I pray you be not angry with me, madam,
Urs. I will, lady.
Urs. Madam, withdraw. The Prince, the Count, Signior Benedick, Don
Urs. Madam, you must come to your uncle. Yonder's old coil at home.
Urs. O, do not do your cousin such a wrong!
Urs. She's lim'd, I warrant you! We have caught her, madam.
Urs. Sure I think so;
Urs. Sure, sure, such carping is not commendable.
Urs. The pleasant'st angling is to see the fish
Urs. Well.                                             [Exit.]
Urs. Why did you so? Doth not the gentleman
Urs. Yet tell her of it. Hear what she will say.
Urs. You could never do him so ill-well unless you were the very
Ursula, waiting gentlewoman attending on Hero.
Verg. 'Tis very true.
Verg. And so am I.
Verg. And we must do it wisely.
Verg. By'r lady, I think it be so.
Verg. Here, here comes Master Signior Leonato, and the sexton too.
Verg. If he will not stand when he is bidden, he is none of the
Verg. If you hear a child cry in the night, you must call to the
Verg. Let them be in the hands--
Verg. Marry, sir, our watch to-night, excepting your worship's
Verg. Nay, by'r lady, that I think 'a cannot.
Verg. Nay, that's certain. We have the exhibition to examine.
Verg. O, a stool and a cushion for the sexton.
Verg. Well, give them their charge, neighbour Dogberry.
Verg. Yea, by th' mass, that it is.
Verg. Yea, or else it were pity but they should suffer salvation,
Verg. Yes, I thank God I am as honest as any man living that is an
Verg. Yes, in truth it is, sir.
Verg. You have been always called a merciful man, partner.
Verges, a Headborough.
WALL. In this same interlude it doth befall
WALL. Thus have I, Wall, my part discharged so;
WILLIAM. A pebble.
WILLIAM. A stone.
WILLIAM. Accusativo, hinc.
WILLIAM. Articles are borrowed of the pronoun, and be
WILLIAM. Forsooth, I have forgot.
WILLIAM. Genitive case?
WILLIAM. Genitive: horum, harum, horum.
WILLIAM. Lapis.
WILLIAM. O-vocativo, O.
WILLIAM. Pulcher.
WILLIAM. Two.
Watchmen. This is all.
Exit
Exit
Exit
1596
1599
1605
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM
A Room in Leonato's house.
A church.
A churchyard.
A field near Frogmore
A field near Windsor
A hall in Leonato's house.
A hall in Leonato's house.
A prison.
A room in Leonato's house.
A room in Leonato's house.
A street leading to the Park
A street.
A wood near Athens
ACT I. SCENE I.
ACT I. SCENE I.
ACT I. Scene I.
ACT II. SCENE I.
ACT II. Scene I.
ACT III SCENE 1.
ACT III. SCENE I.
ACT III. Scene I.
ACT IV. SCENE I.
ACT IV. SCENE I.
ACT IV. Scene I.
ACT V. SCENE 1.
ACT V. SCENE I.
ACT V. Scene I.
An orchard before Leonato's house.
Another part of the Park
Another part of the wood
Another part of the wood
Another room in Leonato's house.]
Athens and a wood near it
Athens. QUINCE'S house
Athens. QUINCE'S house
Athens. The palace of THESEUS
Athens. The palace of THESEUS
Before PAGE'S house
Benedick, Hero, Beatrice, [and Attendants].
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DRAMATIS PERSONAE
Dramatis Personae
Dramatis Personae
Enter Benedick alone.
Enter Benedick and Margaret [meeting].
Enter CAIUS and RUGBY
Enter Claudio, Don Pedro, and three or four with tapers,
Enter Dogberry and his compartner [Verges], with the Watch.
Enter Don Pedro, Claudio, Benedick, and Leonato.
Enter Don Pedro, [John the] Bastard, Leonato, Friar [Francis], Claudio,
Enter FALSTAFF and BARDOLPH
Enter FALSTAFF and MISTRESS FORD
Enter FALSTAFF and MISTRESS QUICKLY
Enter FALSTAFF disguised as HERNE
Enter FENTON and ANNE PAGE
Enter FENTON and HOST
Enter HOST and BARDOLPH
Enter HOST and SIMPLE
Enter Hero and two Gentlewomen, Margaret and Ursula.
Enter Hero, and Margaret and Ursula.
Enter Leonato (Governor of Messina), Hero (his Daughter),
Enter Leonato and his brother [ Antonio].
Enter Leonato and the Constable [Dogberry] and the Headborough [verges].
Enter Leonato, Benedick, [Beatrice,] Margaret, Ursula, Antonio,
Enter Leonato, [Antonio] his Brother, Hero his Daughter,
Enter MISTRESS FORD and MISTRESS PAGE
Enter MISTRESS PAGE and ROBIN
Enter MISTRESS PAGE, MISTRESS FORD, and DOCTOR CAIUS
Enter MISTRESS PAGE, MISTRESS QUICKLY, and WILLIAM
Enter OBERON
Enter PAGE, FORD, MISTRESS PAGE, MISTRESS FORD, and SIR HUGH EVANS
Enter PAGE, SHALLOW, and SLENDER
Enter QUINCE, FLUTE, SNOUT, and STARVELING
Enter QUINCE, SNUG, BOTTOM FLUTE, SNOUT, and STARVELING
Enter QUINCE, SNUG, BOTTOM, FLUTE, SNOUT, and STARVELING
Enter Roderigo and Iago.
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS and SIMPLE
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS like a satyr, with OTHERS as fairies
Enter Sir John the Bastard and Conrade, his companion.
Enter THESEUS, HIPPOLYTA, PHILOSTRATE, LORDS, and ATTENDANTS
Enter THESEUS, HIPPOLYTA, PHILOSTRATE, and ATTENDANTS
Enter TITANIA and Bottom; PEASEBLOSSOM, COBWEB, MOTH, MUSTARDSEED,
Enter TITANIA, with her train
Enter [Don] John and Borachio.
Enter [at one door] Leonato and [at another door, Antonio] an old man,
Enter a FAIRY at One door, and PUCK at another
Enter the Constables [Dogberry and Verges] and the Sexton, in gowns,
Exit
Exit.
FORD'S house
FORD'S house
FORD'S house
Friar [Francis], Hero.
Leonato's orchard.
Leonato's orchard.
Leonato's orchard.
MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
SCENE 2.
SCENE 2.
SCENE 2.
SCENE 3.
SCENE 3.
SCENE 3.
SCENE 3.
SCENE 4
SCENE 4.
SCENE 4.
SCENE 5.
SCENE 5.
SCENE 5.
SCENE 6.
SCENE II.
SCENE II.
SCENE II.
SCENE II.
SCENE.--Messina.
SCENE:
SCENE: Venice and Cyprus
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
Scene II.
Scene II.
Scene II.
Scene II.
Scene II.
Scene III.
Scene III.
Scene III.
Scene III.
Scene IV
Scene IV.
Scene V.
THE END
THE END
THE END
THE TRAGEDY OF OTHELLO, MOOR OF VENICE
The Garter Inn
The Garter Inn
The Garter Inn
The Garter Inn
The Garter Inn
The hall in Leonato's house.
The hall in Leonato's house.
The street in Windsor
The street, near Leonato's house.
The wood. LYSANDER, DEMETRIUS, HELENA, and HERMIA, lying asleep
The wood. TITANIA lying asleep
Venice. A street.
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
Windsor Park
Windsor Park
Windsor. A street
[and the Watch, with Conrade and] Borachio.
[followed by Musicians].
and Beatrice (his Niece), with a Messenger.
and Beatrice his Niece, and a Kinsman; [also Margaret and Ursula].
and other FAIRIES attending;
brother to Leonato.
by William Shakespeare
by William Shakespeare
by William Shakespeare
