











'Goneril.'
Exeunt
Exeunt
Music.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
He dies.
Descends.
Exit MOTH
Exit MOTH
Hautboys.
Exit BOYET
Stabs him.
Exit ARMADO
They fight.
Exit COSTARD
Storm still.
A bell rings.
Exit [Edgar].
Exit [Edgar].
[Steps aside]
[Steps aside]
Exit Attendant.
Exit Murtherer.
Hecate retires.
Opens the gate.
Witches vanish.
[Oswald falls.]
A drum afar off.
Exeunt Marching.
Knocking within.
Exit [Gentleman].
[Exit Gentleman.]
[The LADIES mask]
Exeunt Murtherers.
Exit [Gloucester].
[Exit Regan, led.]
[Exit an Officer.]
[Exit an Officer.]
[Showing his shoe]
[ Giving him money]
[Edgar interposes.]
Exit with attendants
[Climbs into a tree]
[HOLOFERNES retires]
[Servants bind him.]
DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO.
They set upon Banquo.
[They converse apart]
[They converse apart]
Exeunt BOYET and MARIA
[Edmund is borne off.]
"Come away, come away."
DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO.'
Exeunt MOTH and COSTARD
Exeunt [all but Edgar].
Trumpet answers within.
[Giving him a shilling]
[MOTH sings Concolinel]
[Trumpet sounds within]
Exit Sergeant, attended.
Music and a song within,
[Exeunt other Servants.]
then vanish with Hecate.
Exeunt with a dead march.
[Gathering up the pieces]
[Regan plucks his beard.]
Exeunt Macbeth and Lennox.
[BEROWNE tears the letter]
[Draws out his table-book]
Exeunt Banquo. and Fleance.
Exit BEROWNE. LADIES Unmask
Exit [one] with Gloucester.
Lady Macbeth is carried out.
Music. The Witches dance and
[The LADIES-IN-WAITING mask]
Exeunt COSTARD and JAQUENETTA
Exeunt COSTARD and JAQUENETTA
Exeunt ROSALINE and KATHARINE
Exit [Cornwall, led by Regan].
He falls [forward and swoons].
[Exeunt some of the Servants.]
Alarums. Fight. [Edmund falls.]
Exeunt Murtherers, following her.
Exeunt [all but Albany and Edgar].
Exeunt. Manent Kent and Gentleman.
Exit running. [Attendants follow.]
Music and a song, "Black spirits."
Enter Kent.
Enter Macbeth.
Exeunt KING, LONGAVILLE, and DUMAIN
Exeunt KING, LORDS, and BLACKAMOORS
Enter Albany.
Enter All
Enter Edmund.
Exit Lady Macduff, crying "Murther!"
[The LADIES turn their backs to him]
Enter Messenger.
Enter a Captain.
Enter a Herald.
Exeunt Goneril, [Edmund, and Oswald].
Exeunt all but Malcolm and Donalbain.
Enter BEROWNE
Enter BOYET
Enter COSTARD
Enter Gloucester.
Enter a Gentleman.
Re-enter ARMADO
and ATTENDANTS
Enter ARMADO
Exeunt all but Macbeth and Lady Macbeth.
Exeunt all but Macbeth and an Attendant.
She takes a sword and runs at him behind.
and others following].
in their proper habits
Enter COSTARD
Enter Macduff and Lennox.
Enter Ross.
Enter Seyton.
Enter a Servant.
Re-enter BOYET
Re-enter MOTH with COSTARD
Enter DUMAIN, with a paper
Enter Macbeth,
Enter Macbeth.
Enter Murtherers.
Enter the KING, with a paper
MARIA, and KATHARINE
Re-enter Macduff.
SPRING
Ut, re, sol, la, mi, fa.
Enter Banquo.
Enter Lady Macbeth.
Enter Lady Macbeth.
Enter Macduff.
Enter [Oswald the] Steward.
Enter [Oswald the] Steward.
Enter [Oswald the] Steward.
Enter a Doctor.
Enter a Messenger.
Re-enter Ghost.
Enter JAQUENETTA and COSTARD
Enter Lennox.
Enter Macbeth.
Enter Macbeth.
Enter Ross.
Enter a Messenger.
WINTER
Banquo's Ghost following.
Chi non ti vede, non ti pretia.
Enter ARMADO, for HECTOR
Enter COSTARD, armed for POMPEY
Re-enter Lady Macbeth.
Venetia, Venetia,
Enter LONGAVILLE, with a paper
Thine in the dearest design of industry,
Enter ARMADO, MOTH, and COSTARD
Enter Gloucester, led by an Old Man.
Enter JAQUENETTA and COSTARD
Enter Lady Macbeth.
Enter Macbeth and Banquo.
Enter SIR NATHANIEL, for ALEXANDER
Enter a Gentleman [with Attendants].
Enter as messenger, MONSIEUR MARCADE
Exeunt PRINCESS, ROSALINE, KATHARINE, and MARIA
The bodies of Goneril and Regan are brought in.
Enter DULL, COSTARD, and JAQUENETTA
Enter Lady Macbeth with a taper.
Enter Malcolm and Donalbain.
Enter Ross and Angus.
Enter a Gentleman with a bloody knife.
Enter first Murtherer to the door.
Alarum and retreat within. Enter Edgar,
And fears by pale white shown.
By this you shall not know;
Her faults will ne'er be known;
Which native she doth owe.
with a tree in his hand.
'Cuckoo;
'Cuckoo;
'Tu-who;
'Tu-who;
Enter Banquo, and Fleance with a torch.
Enter Lear in a chair carried by Servants.
And she must not speak
Come o'er the bourn, Bessy, to me.
Enter KING, LONGAVILLE, DUMAIN, BEROWNE,
Enter Macbeth, Banquo, Ross, and Angus.
For blushing cheeks by faults are bred,
For still her cheeks possess the same
Then if she fear, or be to blame,
An I cannot, another can.
Enter Gloucester, brought in by two or three.
Enter Hecate to the other three Witches.
Thou canst not hit it, hit it, hit it,
Thou canst not hit it, my good man.
Thunder. First Apparition: an armed Head.
Thy sheep be in the corn;
Thy sheep shall take no harm.
'Your (wife, so I would say) affectionate servant,
And stay'd the odds by adding four.
Be thy mouth or black or white,
Bobtail tyke or trundle-tall-
Dogs leap the hatch, and all are fled.
Enter Macbeth and a Servant with a torch.
For, with throwing thus my head,
Hound or spaniel, brach or lym,
Mastiff, greyhound, mongrel grim,
Staying the odds by adding four.
The fox, the ape, and the humble-bee,
The fox, the ape, and the humble-bee,
Tom will make them weep and wail;
Tooth that poisons if it bite;
Were still at odds, being but three.
Were still at odds, being but three.
Were still at odds, being but three.
Why she dares not come over to thee.
[Converses apart with the KING, and delivers a paper]
And for one blast of thy minikin mouth
Enter BLACKAMOORS music, MOTH as Prologue, the
Fie, foh, and fum!
Flourish. Enter Albany, Goneril, Regan, Soldiers.
I smell the blood of a British man.
Re-enter Macbeth and Lennox, with Ross.
Sleepest or wakest thou, jolly shepherd?
Thunder. Second Apparition: a bloody Child.
[As they are going out,] enter Edgar [disguised].
[BEROWNE steps forth, and speaks to COSTARD]
And Dick the shepherd blows his nail,
And Marian's nose looks red and raw,
And Tom bears logs into the hall,
And birds sit brooding in the snow,
And coughing drowns the parson's saw,
And cuckoo-buds of yellow hue
And lady-smocks all silver-white
And maidens bleach their summer smocks;
And merry larks are ploughmen's clocks;
And milk comes frozen home in pail,
Cuckoo, cuckoo'- O word of fear,
Cuckoo, cuckoo'- O word of fear,
Do paint the meadows with delight,
Enter HOLOFERNES, for JUDAS; and MOTH, for HERCULES
Enter Lear, mad, [fantastically dressed with weeds].
Mocks married men, for thus sings he:
Mocks married men, for thus sings he:
Re-enter the KING, BEROWNE, LONGAVILLE, and DUMAIN,
The cuckoo then on every tree
The cuckoo then on every tree
Then nightly sings the staring owl:
Then nightly sings the staring owl:
Tu-whit, To-who'- A merry note,
Tu-whit, Tu-who'- A merry note,
Unpleasing to a married ear!
Unpleasing to a married ear!
When all aloud the wind doth blow,
When blood is nipp'd, and ways be foul,
When daisies pied and violets blue
When icicles hang by the wall,
When roasted crabs hiss in the bowl,
When shepherds pipe on oaten straws,
When turtles tread, and rooks and daws,
While greasy Joan doth keel the pot.
While greasy Joan doth keel the pot.
"Air," quoth he "thy cheeks may blow;
'On a day-alack the day!-
Air, would I might triumph so!
All unseen, can passage find;
And deny himself for Jove,
But, alack, my hand is sworn
Do not call it sin in me
Juno but an Ethiope were;
Love, whose month is ever May,
Ne'er to pluck thee from thy thorn;
Playing in the wanton air.
Re-enter Attendant, with two Murtherers.
Re-enter the PRINCESS, ushered by BOYET; ROSALINE,
Spied a blossom passing fair
That I am forsworn for thee;
That the lover, sick to death,
Thou for whom Jove would swear
Through the velvet leaves the wind,
Turning mortal for thy love."'
Vow, alack, for youth unmeet,
Wish'd himself the heaven's breath.
Youth so apt to pluck a sweet.
he is
heart,
rights;
sister,
twain
wisdom
'Let our reciprocal vows be rememb'red. You have many
Enter, with Drum and Colours, Albany, Goneril, Soldiers.
Thunder. Third Apparition: a Child crowned,
"Murther!"
'Did not the heavenly rhetoric of thine eye,
'Gainst whom the world cannot hold argument,
'So sweet a kiss the golden sun gives not
A woman I forswore; but I will prove,
And they thy glory through my grief will show.
As doth thy face through tears of mine give light.
As thy eye-beams, when their fresh rays have smote
But do not love thyself; then thou wilt keep
Do but behold the tears that swell in me,
Enter DULL, a constable, with a letter, and COSTARD
Exhal'st this vapour-vow; in thee it is.
If broken, then it is no fault of mine;
If by me broke, what fool is not so wise
My tears for glasses, and still make me weep.
My vow was earthly, thou a heavenly love;
No drop but as a coach doth carry thee;
No thought can think nor tongue of mortal tell.'
Nor shines the silver moon one half so bright
O queen of queens! how far dost thou excel
Persuade my heart to this false perjury?
Sennet sounds. Enter Macbeth as King, Lady Macbeth
So ridest thou triumphing in my woe.
The Ghost of Banquo enters and sits in Macbeth's place.
The night of dew that on my cheeks down flows;
Then thou, fair sun, which on my earth dost shine,
Thou being a goddess, I forswore not thee:
Thou shin'st in every tear that I do weep;
Through the transparent bosom of the deep,
Thy grace being gain'd cures all disgrace in me.
To lose an oath to win a paradise?'
To those fresh morning drops upon the rose,
Vows are but breath, and breath a vapour is;
Vows for thee broke deserve not punishment.
a book;
agree;
away.
be-
catch'd,
crown me
day.                             Exeunt PRINCESS and TRAIN
face.
fructify in us more than he.
hard
know;
l'envoy.
letter?
love?
of mine.
our fate,
pains.
pricket.
spoke;
sweat;
to do me shame.
yet?
'Alack, why does he so?'
'Enough, enough,' and die. That thing you speak of,
'The fiend, the fiend'- he led me to that place.
'Tis from your sister.
'Tis past, and so am I.- But what art thou
'Tis she is subcontracted to this lord,
'Tis wonder that thy life and wits at once
'Twixt two extremes of passion, joy and grief,
'no' too was no good divinity. When the rain came to wet me
'tis by a vortnight. Nay, come not near th' old man. Keep out,
(Alack, too weak the conflict to support!)
(Be brief in't) to the castle; for my writ
(If you dare venture in your own behalf)
A father, and a gracious aged man,
A man, a prince, by him so benefited!
A mistress's command. Wear this.          [Gives a favour.]
A most toad-spotted traitor. Say thou 'no,'
A plot upon her virtuous husband's life,
A royal nobleness. I must embrace thee.
A troop of horse with felt. I'll put't in proof,
A woman's shape doth shield thee.
Above the rest, be gone.
Adultery?
Affliction till it do cry out itself
Against my fire; and wast thou fain, poor father,
All cruels else subscrib'd. But I shall see
All hearts against us. Edmund, I think, is gone,
All levied in my name, have in my name
All my reports go with the modest truth;
All you unpublish'd virtues of the earth,
Allows itself to anything.
Almost too small for sight. The murmuring surge
Along with me.                                      Exeunt.
Am pregnant to good pity. Give me your hand;
An unknown opposite. Thou art not vanquish'd,
And I'll appear again.
And I'll repair the misery thou dost bear
And I, her husband, contradict your banes.
And after slew herself.
And ask of thee forgiveness. So we'll live,
And bosom'd with her, as far as we call hers.
And bring him to our eye. [Exit an Officer.] What can man's
And bring some covering for this naked soul,
And call itself your brother.
And clamour moisten'd. Then away she started
And come to deadly use.
And desperately are dead.
And dizzy 'tis to cast one's eyes so low!
And drive towards Dover, friend, where thou shalt meet
And each man have enough. Dost thou know Dover?
And every measure fail me.
And fire us hence like foxes. Wipe thine eyes.
And follow me, that will to some provision
And fortune led you well. You have the captives
And from th' extremest upward of thy head
And frustrate his proud will.
And give the letters which thou find'st about me
And hardly shall I carry out my side,
And hold your hands in benediction o'er me.
And in the end meet the old course of death,
And leave you to attend him. Some dear cause
And machination ceases. Fortune love you!
And more convenient is he for my hand
And more, much more. The time will bring it out.
And my heart breaks at it.
And not from one oppos'd.
And now and then an ample tear trill'd down
And of the loyal service of his son
And pray, and sing, and tell old tales, and laugh
And quench'd the steeled fires.
And quit the house on purpose, that their punishment
And read out this.
And self-reproving. Bring his constant pleasure.
And shall perchance do good; but speak you on;
And take upon 's the mystery of things,
And that thy tongue some say of breeding breathes,
And the best quarrels, in the heat, are curs'd
And the exchange my brother! Here in the sands
And the strong lance of justice hurtless breaks;
And there I left him tranc'd.
And these same crosses spoil me. Who are you?
And thou no breath at all? Thou'lt come no more,
And to revenge thine eyes. Come hither, friend.
And told me I had turn'd the wrong side out.
And top extremity.
And turn our impress'd lances in our eyes
And when 'tis told, O that my heart would burst!
And when I have stol'n upon these sons-in-law,
And when your mistress hears thus much from you,
And woes by wrong imaginations lose
And yet I know not how conceit may rob
And, like a scurvy politician, seem
And, to deal plainly,
Ang'ring itself and others.- Bless thee, master!
Appear like mice; and yond tall anchoring bark,
Are as the time is. To be tender-minded
Are gone with him towards Dover, where they boast
Are many simples operative, whose power
Are not the question here.
Are of the adder. Which of them shall I take?
Arm it in rags, a pygmy's straw does pierce it.
Arms, arms! sword! fire! Corruption in the place!
As I have set it down.
As badness would desire.
As duteous to the vices of thy mistress
As flies to wanton boys are we to th' gods.
As he'd burst heaven; threw him on my father;
As if we were God's spies; and we'll wear out,
As mad as the vex'd sea, singing aloud,
As pearls from diamonds dropp'd. In brief,
As this instructs thee, thou dost make thy way
As we shall find their merits and our safety
At gilded butterflies, and hear poor rogues
Ay, and laying autumn's dust.
Back do I toss those treasons to thy head;
Bad is the trade that must play fool to sorrow,
Be not familiar with her.
Because he does not feel, feel your pow'r quickly;
Began to crack. Twice then the trumpets sounded,
Behold yond simp'ring dame,
Behold, it is the privilege of mine honours,
Bemonster not thy feature! Were't my fitness
Bench by his side. [To Kent] You are o' th' commission,
Beneath is all the fiend's.
Bid me farewell, and let me hear thee going.
Blows in your face! I fear your disposition.
Bore the commission of my place and person,
Both welcome and protection. Take up thy master.
Both? one? or neither? Neither can be enjoy'd,
Briefly thyself remember. The sword is out
Bring me but to the very brim of it,
Burn itself out. If Edgar live, O, bless him!
Burst smilingly.
But being widow, and my Gloucester with her,
But better service have I never done you
But cozen'd and beguil'd.
But in my garments.
But lately, very late. I lov'd him, friend-
But love, dear love, and our ag'd father's right.
But not without that harmful stroke which since
But since thy outside looks so fair and warlike,
But that thy strange mutations make us hate thee,
But then the mind much sufferance doth o'erskip
But to the girdle do the gods inherit,
But who comes here?
But who comes here?
By diligent discovery; but your haste
By her is poisoned; she hath confess'd it.
By me invested, he compeers the best.
By rule of knighthood, I disdain and spurn.
By th' law of arms thou wast not bound to answer
By this had thought been past.- Alive or dead?
By those that feel their sharpness.
By treason's tooth bare-gnawn and canker-bit.
By your eyes' anguish.
Call by thy trumpet. He that dares approach,
Came then into my mind, and yet my mind
Cannot be bordered certain in itself.
Cannot be heard so high. I'll look no more,
Cannot be seen or heard. Do but look up.
Come hither, herald. Let the trumpet sound,
Come hizzing in upon 'em-
Come on't what will.                                  Exit.
Come, father, I'll bestow you with a friend.        Exeunt.
Come.                  Exeunt [Lear and Cordelia, guarded].
Conceive, and fare thee well.
Conspirant 'gainst this high illustrious prince;
Cordelia, Cordelia! stay a little. Ha!
Cost him his eyes.
Could my good brother suffer you to do it?
Cried 'Sisters, sisters! Shame of ladies! Sisters!
Crown'd with rank fumiter and furrow weeds,
Cure this great breach in his abused nature!
Dar'st thou support a publish'd traitor? Hence!
Darnel, and all the idle weeds that grow
Decline your head. This kiss, if it durst speak,
Desire him to go in. Trouble him no more
Despite of mine own nature. Quickly send
Despite thy victor sword and fire-new fortune,
Detains him from Cordelia.
Did hate thee, or thy father!
Diminish'd to her cock; her cock, a buoy
Dispose of them, of me; the walls are thine.
Do as I bid thee, or rather do thy pleasure.
Do de, de, de. Sessa! Come, march to wakes and fairs and market
Do scald like molten lead.
Do you not love my sister?
Do you see this? Look on her! look! her lips!
Does lecher in my sight.
Does not become a sword. Thy great employment
Down from the waist they are Centaurs,
During the life of this old Majesty,
Each jealous of the other, as the stung
Edmund, enkindle all the sparks of nature
Edmund.]- [To Edmund]. Hold, sir.
Else one self mate and mate could not beget
Ere I taste bread, thou art in nothing less
Ere they have done their mischief. Where's thy drum?
Ere they shall make us weep! We'll see 'em starv'd first.
Ere you had spoke so far. He led our powers,
Exasperates, makes mad her sister Goneril;
False justicer, why hast thou let her scape?
False to thy gods, thy brother, and thy father;
Far off methinks I hear the beaten drum.
Fare you well, sir.                                 [Exit.]
Farewell, dear sister; farewell, my Lord of Gloucester.
Filths savour but themselves. What have you done?
Flew on him, and amongst them fell'd him dead;
Followed his enemy king and did him service
Fools do those villains pity who are punish'd
For (as I am a man) I think this lady
For I am almost ready to dissolve,
For him that brought it. Wretched though I seem,
For thee, oppressed king, am I cast down;
For these domestic and particular broils
For which thou whip'st her. The usurer hangs the cozener.
For your good host. Pray that the right may thrive.
Forc'd to cry out. Where I could not be honest,
Fourscore and upward, not an hour more nor less;
France spreads his banners in our noiseless land,
From a full-flowing stomach. General,
From her material sap, perforce must wither
Gentle, and low- an excellent thing in woman.
Give it the Captain.
Give me an ounce of civet, good apothecary, to sweeten my
Give me some help!- O cruel! O ye gods!
Give me thy hand! come on!
Give thee quick conduct.
Gloucester.
Go seek the traitor Gloucester,
Got 'tween the lawful sheets.
Had I your tongues and eyes, I'ld use them so
Had challeng'd pity of them. Was this a face
Had not concluded all.- He wakes. Speak to him.
Hangs one that gathers sampire- dreadful trade!
Hark, do you hear the sea?
Hast heavy substance; bleed'st not; speak'st; art sound.
Hasten his musters and conduct his pow'rs.
Hath pluck'd him after.
Have followed your sad steps.
Have humbled to all strokes. That I am wretched
Have in thy reverence made!
Have more than merited.- All friends shall taste
Have, as I do remember, done me wrong.
He but usurp'd his life.
He childed as I fathered! Tom, away!
He fastened on my neck, and bellowed out
He had no other deathsman. Let us see.
He said it would be thus- poor banish'd man!
He smil'd at it. I told him you were coming:
He that helps him take all my outward worth.
He that parts us shall bring a brand from heaven
He'll strike, and quickly too. He's dead and rotten.
Hear me one word.
Hearing of this.
Her army is mov'd on.
Her delicate cheek. It seem'd she was a queen
Her husband being alive. Now then, we'll use
Here is the guess of their true strength and forces
Here, friend, is another purse; in it a jewel
His answer was, 'The worse.' Of Gloucester's treachery
His countenance for the battle, which being done,
His daughters seek his death. Ah, that good Kent!
His grief grew puissant, and the strings of life
His master thus.
His mind so venomously that burning shame
His nighted life; moreover, to descry
His speedy taking off. As for the mercy
His way to Dover.
His word was still
Ho you, sir! friend! Hear you, sir? Speak!-
Hoppedance cries in Tom's belly for two white herring. Croak
Horns whelk'd and wav'd like the enridged sea.
Hot questrists after him, met him at gate;
How have you known the miseries of your father?
How is't, my lord? How look you?
How light and portable my pain seems now,
How near's the other army?
How now? Where's the King?
Humanity must perforce prey on itself,
I am a very foolish fond old man,
I am almost mad myself. I had a son,
I am cut to th' brains.
I am mightily abus'd. I should e'en die with pity,
I am no less in blood than thou art, Edmund;
I am sure of that; and at her late being here
I am the King himself.
I am worse than e'er I was.
I ask'd his blessing, and from first to last
I bar it in the interest of my wife.
I can produce a champion that will prove
I come to cope.
I do beseech your Grace-
I do forgive thee.
I doubt not of his temperance.
I fear I am not in my perfect mind.
I feel this pin prick. Would I were assur'd
I have been your tenant, and your father's tenant,
I have o'erheard a plot of death upon him.
I have seen the day, with my good biting falchion
I have serv'd you ever since I was a child;
I hold you but a subject of this war,
I kill'd the slave that was a-hanging thee.
I know thee well enough; thy name is Gloucester.
I know when one is dead, and when one lives.
I know you do not love me; for your sisters
I might have sav'd her; now she's gone for ever!
I must change arms at home and give the distaff
I never yet was valiant. For this business,
I pardon that man's life. What was thy cause?
I pray desire her call her wisdom to her.
I prithee put them off.
I shall no leading need.
I stumbled when I saw. Full oft 'tis seen
I told him of the army that was landed:
I took it for a man. Often 'twould say
I will be jovial. Come, come, I am a king;
I will keep still with my philosopher.
I will not swear these are my hands. Let's see.
I would have made them skip. I am old now,
I' th' last night's storm I such a fellow saw,
I' th' sway of your own will. Is he array'd?
I' th' way toward Dover, do it for ancient love;
I'ld say I had eyes again!
I'ld shake it on this quarrel.
I'll bring you comfort.
I'll lead you to some biding.
If I could bear it longer and not fall
If all could so become it.
If both remain alive. To take the widow
If ever I return to you again,
If ever thou wilt thrive, bury my body,
If it be man's work, I'll do't.                       Exit.
If more, the more th' hast wrong'd me.
If none appear to prove upon thy person
If that her breath will mist or stain the stone,
If that the heavens do not their visible spirits
If this man come to good.
If thou shouldst dally half an hour, his life,
If wolves had at thy gate howl'd that stern time,
If you do chance to hear of that blind traitor,
If you do find him, pray you give him this;
If you have poison for me, I will drink it.
If you have victory, let the trumpet sound
If you will marry, make your loves to me;
Improper for a slave.
In a wall'd prison, packs and sects of great ones
In better phrase and matter than thou didst.
In expectation of them. O dear father,
In hell-black night endur'd, would have buoy'd up
In his anointed flesh stick boarish fangs.
In his own grace he doth exalt himself
In our sustaining corn. A century send forth.
In pity of his misery, to dispatch
In short and musty straw? Alack, alack!
In the good man's distress! Seek, seek for him!
In the most terrible and nimble stroke
In the restoring his bereaved sense?
In thy just proof repeals and reconciles thee.
Into a madman's rags, t' assume a semblance
Into my husband's hands. This trusty servant
Is done to cure it.
Is general woe. [To Kent and Edgar] Friends of my soul, you
Is he not here?
Is now urg'd on you.
Is on the life of Lear and on Cordelia.
Is wretchedness depriv'd that benefit
Is't not the King?
It came even from the heart of- O! she's dead!
It is a chance which does redeem all sorrows
It is the cowish terror of his spirit,
It is thy business that I go about.
It toucheth us as France invades our land,
It was great ignorance, Gloucester's eyes being out,
It was some fiend. Therefore, thou happy father,
It were a delicate stratagem to shoe
It will come,
KING and his LORDS as maskers, in the guise of Russians
Kent! father! sisters! What, i' th' storm? i' th' night?
Kind gods, forgive me that, and prosper him!
King Lear hath lost, he and his daughter ta'en.
Know'st thou this paper?
Late footed in the kingdom?
Leave, gentle wax; and, manners, blame us not.
Leaving free things and happy shows behind;
Led him, begg'd for him, sav'd him from despair;
Lending me this acquaintance. I pray you go
Lest his ungovern'd rage dissolve the life
Lest my brain turn, and the deficient sight
Lest that th' infection of his fortune take
Let copulation thrive; for Gloucester's bastard son
Let her who would be rid of him devise
Let me unseal the letter.
Let not my worser spirit tempt me again
Let pity not be believ'd!' There she shook
Let sorrow split my heart if ever I
Let the superfluous and lust-dieted man,
Let's see his pockets; these letters that he speaks of
Life would not yield to age.
Like hold on thee. Let go his arm.
Like monsters of the deep.
Look there, look there!                            He dies.
Look up a-height. The shrill-gorg'd lark so far
Look with thine ears. See how yond justice rails upon yond
Looks fearfully in the confined deep.
Lose he his other eye?
Lurk, lurk.                                         [Exit.]
Make instruments to scourge us.
Makes thee the happier. Heavens, deal so still!
Mark the high noises, and thyself bewray
Mark- I say, instantly; and carry it so
Maugre thy strength, youth, place, and eminence,
May all the building in my fancy pluck
May be my friends. He's dead. I am only sorry
May blame, but not control.
May equally determine.
May prove effects. Back, Edmund, to my brother.
Met I my father with his bleeding rings,
Methinks I should know you, and know this man;
Methinks he seems no bigger than his head.
Methinks our pleasure might have been demanded
Methinks thy voice is alter'd, and thou speak'st
Might I but live to see thee in my touch,
Might have the freer course.
Mine eyes are not o' th' best. I'll tell you straight.
More than in your addition.
Most barbarous, most degenerate, have you madded.
Most honourably doth uphold his word.
Most just and heavy causes make oppose.
My boon I make it that you know me not
My father, poorly led? World, world, O world!
My fool usurps my body.
My lady charg'd my duty in this business.
My lady is bespoke.
My lord and master.
My lord is dead; Edmund and I have talk'd,
My master calls me; I must not say no.
My masters, know you that?
My mourning and important tears hath pitied.
My name is Edgar and thy father's son.
My oath, and my profession. I protest-
My reason all the same; and they are ready
My snuff and loathed part of nature should
My truth and honour firmly.
Myself could else outfrown false Fortune's frown.
Nay, send in time.
Never (O fault!) reveal'd myself unto him
Never, never, never, never, never!
No blown ambition doth our arms incite,
No father his son dearer. True to tell thee,
No tearing, lady! I perceive you know it.
No, do thy worst, blind Cupid! I'll not love. Read thou this
No, sir, you must not kneel.
Noble philosopher, your company.
None does offend, none- I say none! I'll able 'em.
Nor more nor clipp'd, but so.
Not as a brother.
Not bolds the King, with others whom, I fear,
Not met us on the way.
Not sure, though hoping of this good success,
Now marry in an instant.
Now outlaw'd from my blood. He sought my life
Now, fellow, fare thee well.
Now, where's your master?
O indistinguish'd space of woman's will!
O, the difference of man and man!
Of men's impossibility, have preserv'd thee.
Of murtherous lechers; and in the mature time
Of my condition!
Of my huge sorrows! Better I were distract.
Of quick cross lightning? to watch- poor perdu!-
Of th' extreme verge. For all beneath the moon
Of the death-practis'd Duke, For him 'tis well
Of this child-changed father!
On capital treason; and, in thine attaint,
On him, on you, who not? I will maintain
One of them we behold.
One step I have advanc'd thee. If thou dost
Oppos'd against the act, bending his sword
Or thrive by other means.
Or well or ill, as this day's battle's fought.        Exit.
Or whether since he is advis'd by aught
Or with this paper shall I stop it. [Shows her her letter to
Our foster nurse of nature is repose,
Our means secure us, and our mere defects
Over her passion, who, most rebel-like,
Owes nothing to thy blasts.
Pantingly forth, as if it press'd her heart;
Past speaking of in a king! Thou hast one daughter
Pinion him like a thief, bring him before us.
Pluck out his poor old eyes; nor thy fierce sister
Poor Tom shall lead thee.
Pray you now, forget and forgive. I am old and foolish.
Pray you undo this button. Thank you, sir.
Preferment falls on him that cuts him off.
Proper deformity seems not in the fiend
Prosper it with thee! Go thou further off;
Prove our commodities. Ah dear son Edgar,
Pull off my boots. Harder, harder! So.
Purr! the cat is gray.
Put strength enough to't.
Rather than die at once!) taught me to shift
Reason, in madness!
Remembers not these garments; nor I know not
Repair those violent harms that my two sisters
Requires a fitter place.
Ripeness is all. Come on.
Robes and furr'd gowns hide all. Plate sin with gold,
Rule in this realm, and the gor'd state sustain.
Search every acre in the high-grown field
Seek out where thy father is, that he may be ready for our
Seest thou this object, Kent?
Send quickly down to tame these vile offences,
Shake patiently my great affliction off.
Shall be applied. For us, we will resign,
Shall do a court'sy to our wrath, which men
Shall never see his pardon; for my state
Shall never see so much, nor live so long.
Shall pass between us. Ere long you are like to hear
Shall so wear out to naught. Dost thou know me?
Shall we not see these daughters and these sisters?
She and the Duke her husband!
She gave strange eliads and most speaking looks
She that herself will sliver and disbranch
She's dead as earth. Lend me a looking glass.
Should loosen him and me.
Show scarce so gross as beetles. Halfway down
Shunn'd my abhorr'd society; but then, finding
Sir, this I hear: the King is come to his daughter,
Sit you too.
Slain by his servant, going to put out
So distribution should undo excess,
So farewell.
So horrid as in woman.
So long as we can say 'This is the worst.'
So many fadom down precipitating,
So should my thoughts be sever'd from my griefs,
So speedily can venge! But O poor Gloucester!
So, so, so. We'll go to supper i' th' morning. So, so, so.
Some five or six and thirty of his knights,
Something- I know not what- I'll love thee much-
Soon may I hear and see him!
Sorrow would be a rarity most belov'd,
Sought to be king o'er her.
Spare speech.
Speak what we feel, not what we ought to say.
Speak, Edmund, where's the King? and where's Cordelia?
Speak.
Spring with my tears! be aidant and remediate
Stand in assured loss. Take up, take up!
Stand in hard cure. [To the Fool] Come, help to bear thy master.
Stands on me to defend, not to debate.                Exit.
Stands on the hourly thought.
Stands still in esperance, lives not in fear.
Stretch him out longer.
Such different issues. You spoke not with her since?
Sunshine and rain at once: her smiles and tears
Take that of me, my friend, who have the power
Take thou my soldiers, prisoners, patrimony;
Take thou this note [gives a paper]. Go follow them to prison.
Talk of court news; and we'll talk with them too-
Tell me what more thou know'st.
Tell me- but truly- but then speak the truth-
Ten masts at each make not the altitude
Th' untun'd and jarring senses, O, wind up
Than I have here proclaim'd thee.
Than for your lady's. You may gather more.
Than now to bid you hold.
Than still contemn'd and flatter'd. To be worst,
That I stand up, and have ingenious feeling
That are to censure them.
That bear'st a cheek for blows, a head for wrongs;
That dares not undertake. He'll not feel wrongs
That ebb and flow by th' moon.
That ever I have felt.
That ever ear receiv'd; which in recounting
That eye that told you so look'd but asquint.
That eyeless head of thine was first fram'd flesh
That follow'd me so near (O, our lives' sweetness!
That hast this fortune on me? If thou'rt noble,
That heaven's vault should crack. She's gone for ever!
That made the overture of thy treasons to us;
That minces virtue, and does shake the head
That must destroy thee.
That names me traitor, villain-like he lies.
That nature which contemns it origin
That of thy death and business I can tell.
That on th' unnumb'red idle pebble chafes
That play'd on her ripe lip seem'd not to know
That she fordid herself.
That slaves your ordinance, that will not see
That stripp'd her from his benediction, turn'd her
That very dogs disdain'd; and in this habit
That very manners urges.
That wants the means to lead it.
That we may wake the King? He hath slept long.
That we present us to him.
That with the pain of death would hourly die
That would upon the rack of this tough world
That you so oft have boasted to retain?
That, if my speech offend a noble heart,
The British pow'rs are marching hitherward.
The battle done, and they within our power,
The bloody proclamation to escape
The bounty and the benison of heaven
The crows and choughs that wing the midway air
The cup of their deservings.- O, see, see!
The dark and vicious place where thee he got
The fishermen that walk upon the beach
The fitchew nor the soiled horse goes to't
The food of thy abused father's wrath!
The gods are just, and of our pleasant vices
The gods reward your kindness!
The gods themselves throw incense. Have I caught thee?
The goodyears shall devour 'em, flesh and fell,
The grief hath craz'd my wits. What a night 's this!
The holy water from her heavenly eyes,
The knowledge of themselves.
The lamentable change is from the best;
The lowest and most dejected thing of fortune,
The natural fool of fortune. Use me well;
The news is not so tart.- I'll read, and answer.
The oldest have borne most; we that are young
The one the other poisoned for my sake,
The other eye of Gloucester.
The question of Cordelia and her father
The safer sense will ne'er accommodate
The sea, with such a storm as his bare head
The stars above us, govern our conditions;
The strength o' th' enemy.
The time will not allow the compliment
The treasury of life when life itself
The wages of their virtue, and all foes
The ways are dangerous.
The wheel is come full circle; I am here.
The which he lacks. That to provoke in him
The which immediacy may well stand up
The winged vengeance overtake such children.
The worst returns to laughter. Welcome then,
The wren goes to't, and the small gilded fly
The wretch that thou hast blown unto the worst
Thee I'll rake up, the post unsanctified
Thee they may hurt.
Their going hence, even as their coming hither;
Their papers, is more lawful.             Reads the letter.
Their precious stones new lost; became his guide,
Then kill, kill, kill, kill, kill, kill!
There is a litter ready; lay him in't
There is my pledge [throws down a glove]! I'll prove it on thy
There's hell, there's darkness, there's the sulphurous pit;
Therefore I do advise you take this note.
Therefore great France
These fourscore years.
These hairs which thou dost ravish from my chin
These weeds are memories of those worser hours.
They are apt enough to dislocate and tear
They kill us for their sport.
They'll mar my counterfeiting.
Thine honour from thy suffering; that not know'st
Think that the clearest gods, who make them honours
This gilded serpent [points to Goneril]. For your claim, fair
This is the letter he spoke of, which approves him an
This judgement of the heavens, that makes us tremble
This letter, madam, craves a speedy answer.
This present summons?
This rest might yet have balm'd thy broken senses,
This sword of mine shall give them instant way
This sword, this arm, and my best spirits are bent
This world I do renounce, and, in your sights,
Thou art a soul in bliss; but I am bound
Thou call'st on him that hates thee. It was he
Thou hotly lusts to use her in that kind
Thou know'st, the first time that we smell the air
Thou liest.
Thou must be patient. We came crying hither;
Thou must not stay behind.
Thou rascal beadle, hold thy bloody hand!
Thou say'st the King grows mad: I'll tell thee, friend,
Thou shalt not die. Die for adultery? No.
Thou shouldst have said, 'Good porter, turn the key.'
Thou unsubstantial air that I embrace!
Thou wilt o'ertake us hence a mile or twain
Thou'dst shiver'd like an egg; but thou dost breathe;
Though he had bit me, should have stood that night
Though well we may not pass upon his life
Though women all above.
Through tatter'd clothes small vices do appear;
Thus might he pass indeed. Yet he revives.
Thy arm may do thee justice. Here is mine.
Thy comforts can do me no good at all;
Thy flesh and bones. Howe'er thou art a fiend,
Thy heinous, manifest, and many treasons,
Thy life is a miracle. Speak yet again.
Thy medicine on my lips, and let this kiss
Thy token of reprieve.
Thy valour and thy heart- thou art a traitor;
Tigers, not daughters, what have you perform'd?
Till further settling.
Till time and I think meet.
To Edmund Earl of Gloucester. Seek him out
To amplify too much, would make much more,
To apply to his bleeding face. Now heaven help him!
To be my child Cordelia.
To be oppos'd against the warring winds?
To bid my king and master aye good night.
To boot, and boot!
To change the course. He's full of alteration
To deal with grief alone.
To die before you please!
To end itself by death? 'Twas yet some comfort
To foreign casualties, gave her dear rights
To hang Cordelia in the prison and
To have well-armed friends.
To hear of pleasure's name.
To him our absolute power; [to Edgar and Kent] you to your
To his dog-hearted daughters- these things sting
To his great master; who, thereat enrag'd,
To hovel thee with swine and rogues forlorn,
To know our enemies' minds, we'ld rip their hearts;
To lay the blame upon her own despair
To lead him where he would. His roguish madness
To let him live. Where he arrives he moves
To let these hands obey my blood,
To make him even o'er the time he has lost.
To match thy goodness? My life will be too short
To noble Edmund. I know you are of her bosom.
To noble fortunes. Know thou this, that men
To pluck me by the beard.
To pluck the common bosom on his side
To prove upon thy heart, whereto I speak,
To quarrel with your great opposeless wills,
To quit this horrid act.
To raise my fortunes. Thou old unhappy traitor,
To seal th' accuser's lips. Get thee glass eyes
To see another thus. I know not what to say.
To see some mischief on him. O!                     He dies.
To see the things thou dost not. Now, now, now, now!
To send the old and miserable King
To some retention and appointed guard;
To stand against the deep dread-bolted thunder?
To such as love not sorrow; but another,
To thank thee for the love thou show'dst the King,
To the descent and dust beneath thy foot,
To the forfended place?
To thee a woman's services are due;
To this great stage of fools. This' a good block.
To use his eyes for garden waterpots,
To't, luxury, pell-mell! for I lack soldiers.
To-morrow, or at further space, t' appear
Told him my pilgrimage. But his flaw'd heart
Told the most piteous tale of Lear and him
Took their discharge.
Topple down headlong.
Touches us not with pity. O, is this he?
Transport her purposes by word? Belike,
Tray, Blanch, and Sweetheart, see, they bark at me.
Turn out that eyeless villain. Throw this slave
Until some half hour past, when I was arm'd,
Until their greater pleasures first be known
Untimely comes this hurt. Give me your arm.
Up- so. How is't? Feel you your legs? You stand.
Upon a wheel of fire, that mine own tears
Upon my hateful life. Another way
Upon the British party. O, untimely death! Death!
Upon the crown o' th' cliff what thing was that
Upon the dunghill. Regan, I bleed apace.
Upon these eyes of thine I'll set my foot.
Upon this call o' th' trumpet.
Was kinder to his father than my daughters
Was then scarce friends with him. I have heard more since.
We do require them of you, so to use them
We put fresh garments on him.
We scarcely think our miseries our foes.
We sweat and bleed: the friend hath lost his friend;
We two alone will sing like birds i' th' cage.
We wawl and cry. I will preach to thee. Mark.
Well worth a poor man's taking. Fairies and gods
Were like, a better way. Those happy smilets
Were two full moons; he had a thousand noses,
What are you, sir?
What comfort to this great decay may come
What guests were in her eyes, which parted thence
What is avouched there. If you miscarry,
What is't thou say'st, Her voice was ever soft,
What like, offensive.
What most he should dislike seems pleasant to him;
What party I do follow.
What place this is; and all the skill I have
What safe and nicely I might well delay
What store her heart is made on. Stop her there!
What we are come about, and by no means
What will hap more to-night, safe scape the King!
When I am known aright, you shall not grieve
When I do stare, see how the subject quakes.
When I inform'd him, then he call'd me sot
When false opinion, whose wrong thought defiles thee,
When grief hath mates, and bearing fellowship.
When misery could beguile the tyrant's rage
When that which makes me bend makes the King bow,
When thou dost ask me blessing, I'll kneel down
When time shall serve, let but the herald cry,
Where I did lodge last night. Do not laugh at me;
Where is thy lustre now?
Where they shall rest for ever. Trumpets, speak!
Where you shall hold your session. At this time
Whether the three Worthies shall come in or no?
Which came from one that's of a neutral heart,
Which can distinguish sound.
Which do command them. With him I sent the Queen,
Which he intends to Lear and to Cordelia-
Which made me think a man a worm. My son
Which parted from you?
Which thou hast perpendicularly fell.
Which tie him to an answer. Our wishes on the way
Which twain have brought her to.
Which, if convenience will not allow,
Which- for they yet glance by and scarcely bruise-
Whiles thou, a moral fool, sit'st still, and criest
Whilst I was big in clamour, came there a man,
Who 'twas that so endur'd, with his strong arms
Who I'll entreat to lead me.
Who alone suffers suffers most i' th' mind,
Who can arraign me for't?
Who hast not in thy brows an eye discerning
Who is too good to pity thee.
Who loses and who wins; who's in, who's out-
Who redeems nature from the general curse
Who should express her goodliest. You have seen
Who sometime, in his better tune, remembers
Who were the opposites of this day's strife.
Who with best meaning have incurr'd the worst.
Who's there? the traitor?
Who, by the art of known and feeling sorrows,
Who, having seen me in my worst estate,
Who, with some other of the lord's dependants,
Whose age has charms in it, whose title more,
Whose face between her forks presageth snow,
Whose reverence even the head-lugg'd bear would lick,
Why dost thou lash that whore? Strip thine own back.
Why should a dog, a horse, a rat, have life,
Why, then she lives.
Why, this would make a man a man of salt,
Will close the eye of anguish.
Will in concealment wrap me up awhile.
Will not bear question. Either say thou'lt do't,
Will quicken, and accuse thee. I am your host.
Will yield to see his daughter.
Will you lie down and rest upon the cushions?
With a more riotous appetite.
With boot, and Such addition as your honours
With hardocks, hemlock, nettles, cuckoo flow'rs,
With others whom the rigour of our state
With plumed helm thy state begins to threat,
With robber's hands my hospitable favours
With something rich about me. From that place
With th' ancient of war on our proceeding.
With the hell-hated lie o'erwhelm thy heart;
With thine, and all that offer to defend him,
With this thin helm? Mine enemy's dog,
With this ungracious paper strike the sight
Without the form of justice, yet our power
Witness the world that I create thee here
Women will all turn monsters.
Would I not leap upright.
Would stretch thy spirits up into the air.
Yet I am doubtful; for I am mainly ignorant
Yet am I noble as the adversary
Yet to be known shortens my made intent.
Yet, poor old heart, he holp the heavens to rain.
Yields to the theft. Had he been where he thought,
You are my guests. Do me no foul play, friends.
You are not worth the dust which the rude wind
You have some cause, they have not.
You justicers, that these our nether crimes
You know the goodness I intend upon you.
You look as you had something more to say.
You lords and noble friends, know our intent.
You see is kill'd in him; and yet it is danger
You shall have ransom. Let me have a surgeon;
You should not ruffle thus. What will you do?
Your business of the world hath so an end,
Your eldest daughters have fordone themselves,
Your most dear daughter-
Your name, your quality? and why you answer
Your servant Kent. Where is your servant Caius?
Your sister is the better soldier.
[To Edgar] Come, sit thou here, most learned justicer.
[To Edgar] Thou, robed man of justice, take thy place.
[To Goneril] Thou worse than any name, read thine own evil.
[To the Fool] And thou, his yokefellow of equity,
[To the Fool] Thou, sapient sir, sit here. Now, you she-foxes!
a clothier's yard. Look, look, a mouse! Peace, peace; this piece
and Messengers
and told me I had white hairs in my beard ere the black ones
apprehension.
are going, to a most festinate preparation. We are bound to the
awork by a reproveable badness in himself.
bless thee, master!
burning, scalding, stench, consumption. Fie, fie, fie! pah, pah!
business in hand.
by running. Sa, sa, sa, sa!
challenge; mark but the penning of it.
che vore ye, or Ise try whether your costard or my ballow be the
coming forth is thought of, which imports to the kingdom so much
company. The revenges we are bound to take upon your traitorous
continually; 'tis her command.
disposition made him seek his death; but a provoking merit, set
everything. 'Tis a lie- I am not ague-proof.
farmer's dog bark at a beggar?
father are not fit for your beholding. Advise the Duke where you
father in my love.
fear and danger that his personal return was most required and
grief?
ha' bin zwagger'd out of my life, 'twould not ha' bin zo long as
hanged.
harder. Chill be plain with you.
health, a boy's love, or a whore's oath.
heart. Is there any cause in nature that makes these hard
hearts? [To Edgar] You, sir- I entertain you for one of my
hundred; only I do not like the fashion of your garments. You'll
imagination. There's money for thee.
in Germany.
in a light. Yet you see how this world goes.
intelligent party to the advantages of France. O heavens! that
it.
jail; from the loathed warmth whereof deliver me, and supply the
lake of darkness. Pray, innocent, and beware the foul fiend.
like. Our posts shall be swift and intelligent betwixt us.
long from you.
loyalty, something fears me to think of.
lust, as Obidicut; Hobbididence, prince of dumbness; Mahu, of
mad yeoman that sees his son a gentleman before him.
madam?
money in your purse? Your eyes are in a heavy case, your purse
money. That fellow handles his bow like a crow-keeper. Draw me
mowing, who since possesses chambermaids and waiting women. So,
necessary.
not peace at my bidding; there I found 'em, there I smelt 'em
not, black angel; I have no food for thee.
of the trumpet. He is bold in his defence.'
of toasted cheese will do't. There's my gauntlet; I'll prove it
on a giant. Bring up the brown bills. O, well flown, bird! i'
once, and the wind to make me chatter; when the thunder would
opportunities to cut him off. If your will want not, time and
out. Go to, they are not men o' their words! They told me I was
piece out the comfort with what addition I can. I will not be
place for your labour.
place will be fruitfully offer'd. There is nothing done, if he
reason?
return the conqueror. Then am I the prisoner, and his bed my
say they are Persian attire; but let them be chang'd.
scar'd out of his good wits. Bless thee, good man's son, from
simple thief. Hark in thine ear. Change places and, handy-dandy,
stealing; Modo, of murder; Flibbertigibbet, of mopping and
suspicion more fully.- I will persever in my course of loyalty,
th' clout, i' th' clout! Hewgh! Give the word.
that he is a manifold traitor, let him appear by the third sound
the army will maintain upon Edmund, supposed Earl of Gloucester,
the foul fiend! Five fiends have been in poor Tom at once: of
the great image of authority: a dog's obeyed in office.
the kingdom approach apace.
this honourable assembly, she kicked the poor King her father.
this letter. The army of France is landed.- Seek out the traitor
this treason were not- or not I the detector!
though the conflict be sore between that and my blood.
towns. Poor Tom, thy horn is dry.
were there. To say 'ay' and 'no' to everything I said! 'Ay' and
which is the justice, which is the thief? Thou hast seen a
yeoman.
"Aroint thee, witch!" the rump-fed ronyon cries.
"Fear not, Macbeth; no man that's born of woman
"Glamis hath murther'd sleep, and therefore Cawdor
'A can carve too, and lisp; why this is he
'Ay me!' says one. 'O Jove!' the other cries.
'For' quoth the King 'an angel shalt thou see;
'Gainst my captivity. Hail, brave friend!
'Gainst thee, thou lamb, that standest as his prey;
'No point' quoth I; my servant straight was mute.
'Thus dost thou hear the Nemean lion roar
'Thus must thou speak' and 'thus thy body bear,'
'Tis deadly sin to keep that oath, my lord,
'Tis given with welcome. To feed were best at home;
'Tis hard to reconcile.
'Tis not for you to hear what I can speak:
'Tis safer to be that which we destroy
'Tis won as towns with fire- so won, so lost.
'Twixt this and supper. Go not my horse the better,
'What's the price of this inkle?'- 'One penny.'- 'No, I'll give
'det' when he should pronounce 'debt'- d, e, b, t, not d, e, t.
'leven-pence farthing better; most sweet gardon! I will do it,
'nebour'; 'neigh' abbreviated 'ne.' This is abhominable- which he
'tis yours.
(As upon thee, Macbeth, their speeches shine)
(Howeer you come to know it) answer me:
-me. Thus expecting thy reply, I profane my lips on thy foot, my
A better speech was never spoke before.
A caudle, ho!
A critic, nay, a night-watch constable;
A dagger of the mind, a false creation,
A dangerous rhyme, master, against the reason of white and red.
A deed of dreadful note.
A deep repentance. Nothing in his life
A domineering pedant o'er the boy,
A falcon towering in her pride of place
A fellow to it.
A gait, a state, a brow, a breast, a waist,
A giving hand, though foul, shall have fair praise.
A good and virtuous nature may recoil
A green goose a goddess- pure, pure idolatry.
A heavy heart bears not a nimble tongue.
A heavy summons lies like lead upon me,
A huge translation of hypocrisy,
A hundred thousand crowns; and not demands,
A hundred thousand more, in surety of the which,
A jest's prosperity lies in the ear
A lady wall'd about with diamonds!
A leg, a limb-
A limbeck only. When in swinish sleep
A little water clears us of this deed.
A lover's ear will hear the lowest sound,
A lover's eyes will gaze an eagle blind.
A man in all the world's new fashion planted,
A man of complements, whom right and wrong
A man of fire-new words, fashion's own knight.
A man of sovereign parts, peerless esteem'd,
A man so breathed that certain he would fight ye,
A mean most meanly; and in ushering,
A mess of Russians left us but of late.
A mild of grace and complete majesty-
A modern ecstasy. The dead man's knell
A most miraculous work in this good King,
A phantasime, a Monarcho, and one that makes sport
A prosperous gentleman; and to be King
A show of eight Kings, the last with a glass in his hand;
A stanchless avarice that, were I King,
A stand where you may make the fairest shoot.
A third is like the former. Filthy hags!
A true man or a thief that gallops so?
A twelvemonth shall you spend, and never rest,
A very beadle to a humorous sigh;
A whitely wanton with a velvet brow,
A wife of such wood were felicity.
A wife?
A wither'd hermit, five-score winters worn,
A woman's story at a winter's fire,
A woman, that is like a German clock,
A world of torments though I should endure,
A yielding 'gainst some reason in my breast,
Abate throw at novum, and the whole world again
About surrender up of Aquitaine
Above the sense of sense; so sensible
Above their functions and their offices.
Above this world; adding thereto, moreover,
According to the gift which bounteous nature
Accounted dangerous folly. Why then, alas,
Acquaint you with the perfect spy o' the time,
Acting it many ways. Nay, had I power, I should
Action and accent did they teach him there:
Add thereto a tiger's chawdron,
Adder's fork and blind-worm's sting,
Adieu,
Advise him to a caution, to hold what distance
After life's fitful fever he sleeps well.
After these ways; so, it will make us mad.
Again to sleep.
Against my near'st of life; and though I could
Against the churches, though the yesty waves
Against the steep uprising of the hill?
Against the undivulged pretense I fight
Against the use of nature? Present fears
Against those honors deep and broad wherewith
Against your peace. Love doth approach disguis'd,
Ah, good my liege, I pray thee pardon me.
Ah, heavens, it is a most pathetical nit!
Ah, never faith could hold, if not to beauty vowed!
Alarum'd by his sentinel, the wolf,
Alexander.
Alexander; Arinado's page, Hercules; the pedant, Judas
Alisander- alas! you see how 'tis- a little o'erparted. But there
All by the name of dogs. The valued file
All causes shall give way. I am in blood
All causes to the purpose of his speed;
All continent impediments would o'erbear
All ignorant that soul that sees thee without wonder;
All is but toys; renown and grace is dead,
All is the fear and nothing is the love;
All liberal reason I will yield unto.
All mortal consequences have pronounced me thus:
All senses to that sense did make their repair,
All swol'n and ulcerous, pitiful to the eye,
All that impedes thee from the golden round,
All the particulars of vice so grafted
All the quarters that they know
All three of you, to be thus much o'ershot?
All unity on earth.
All wanton as a child, skipping and vain;
All which we pine for now. And this report
Almost afraid to know itself! It cannot
Already are i' the court.
Already at a point, was setting forth.
Although not valued to the money's worth.
An absolute trust.
An if my face were but as fair as yours,
An older and a better soldier none
An you give him for my sake but one loving kiss.
An your waist, mistress, were as slender as my wit,
And 'tis not done. The attempt and not the deed
And Fortune, on his damned quarrel smiling,
And I shall find you empty of that fault,
And I to be a corporal of his field,
And I to sigh for her! to watch for her!
And I will have you and that fault withal.
And I will put that business in your bosoms
And I will use him for my minstrelsy.
And I will wish thee never more to dance,
And I'll request your presence.
And I, the mistress of your charms,
And Lord Berowne, I thank him, is my dear.
And Nestor play at push-pin with the boys,
And Rosaline they call her. Ask for her,
And abstinence engenders maladies.
And all thing unbecoming.
And all to all.
And an eternal curse fall on you! Let me know.
And at the pit of Acheron
And bade them speak to him; then prophet-like
And bear't before him; thereby shall we shadow
And beauty's crest becomes the heavens well.
And beggar'd yours forever?
And betimes I will, to the weird sisters.
And bid my will avouch it, yet I must not,
And bide the penance of each three years' day.
And bind us further to you.
And braggart with my tongue! But, gentle heavens,
And but one meal on every day beside,
And by these badges understand the King.
And champion me to the utterance! Who's there?
And change you favours too; so shall your loves
And chastise with the valor of my tongue
And choke their art. The merciless Macdonwald-
And consciences that will not die in debt
And critic Timon laugh at idle toys!
And damn'd all those that trust them! I did hear
And dare me to the desert with thy sword.
And dash'd the brains out had I so sworn as you
And do not know ourselves; when we hold rumor
And does blaspheme his breed? Thy royal father
And even that falsehood, in itself a sin,
And ever and anon they made a doubt
And every godfather can give a name.
And every one his love-feat will advance
And everyone shall share i' the gains.
And fall of many kings. But fear not yet
And falls on the other.
And fan our people cold.
And fill me from the crown to the toe top-full
And fix'd his head upon our battlements.
And give him light that it was blinded by.
And gives the crutch the cradle's infancy.
And gives to every power a double power,
And go we, lords, to put in practice that
And go well satisfied to France again.
And guardian of their bones.
And hath been from his youth. Pray you, keep seat.
And have the money by our father lent,
And he and his competitors in oath
And he ended the market.
And he from forage will incline to play.
And he that breaks them in the least degree
And health on both!
And here from gracious England have I offer
And his gash'd stabs look'd like a breach in nature
And his great love, sharp as his spur, hath holp him
And his page a t' other side, that handful of wit!
And hold fair friendship with his Majesty.
And hold thee to my heart.
And hums, as who should say, "You'll rue the time
And if these four Worthies in their first show thrive,
And in her train there is a gentle lady;
And in his commendations I am fed;
And in that vow we have forsworn our books.
And justice always whirls in equal measure.
And keep the natural ruby of your cheeks
And last the hearty welcome.
And laugh upon the apple of her eye?
And lay my arms before the legs of this sweet lass of France.
And leap for joy, though they are lame with blows;
And let us not be dainty of leave-taking,
And live a coward in thine own esteem,
And look on death itself! Up, up, and see
And make a dark night too of half the day-
And make him proud to make me proud that jests!
And make my seated heart knock at my ribs,
And make our faces vizards to our hearts,
And make us heirs of all eternity.
And many miles, the Princess bids you tell
And many unrough youths that even now
And mark'd you both, and for you both did blush.
And meet i' the hall together.
And mingle with the English epicures!
And mock for mock is only my intent.
And mounch'd, and mounch'd, and mounch'd. "Give me," quoth I.
And much too little of that good I saw
And my more-having would be as a sauce
And never going aright, being a watch,
And none serve with him but constrained things
And not a man of them shall have the grace,
And not be seen to wink of all the day-
And now about the cauldron sing,
And often at his very loose decides
And oftentimes, to win us to our harm,
And on thy blade and dudgeon gouts of blood,
And one day in a week to touch no food,
And overcome us like a summer's cloud,
And overheard what you shall overhear-
And pall thee in the dunnest smoke of hell
And pity, like a naked new-born babe
And plant in tyrants mild humility.
And play the humble host.
And points at them for his. What, is this so?
And pour'd them down before him.
And prodigally gave them all to you.
And profound Solomon to tune a jig,
And prophesying with accents terrible
And purge it to a sound and pristine health,
And push us from our stools. This is more strange
And put a barren sceptre in my gripe,
And question this most bloody piece of work
And quite divorce his memory from his part.
And raught not to five weeks when he came to five-score.
And say it is not so.
And say which grain will grow and which will not,
And set me up in hope? But hush, no more.
And shall continue our graces towards him.
And shape his service wholly to my hests,
And shape to win grace though he had no wit.
And shooting well is then accounted ill;
And show the best of our delights.
And show us to be watchers. Be not lost
And sin to break it.
And sleep in spite of thunder.
And so I do commend you to their backs.
And so adieu, sweet Jude! Nay, why dost thou stay?
And so may you; for a light heart lives long.
And so she died. Had she been light, like you,
And so to study three years is but short.
And something from the palace (always thought
And spend his prodigal wits in bootless rhymes,
And stand between her back, sir, and the fire,
And stay here in your court for three years' space.
And still keep eyes upon her. So good night.
And study too, the causer of your vow;
And such an instrument I was to use.
And such barren plants are set before us that we thankful should
And suddenly resolve me in my suit.         [Giving a paper]
And sundry blessings hang about his throne
And take a bond of fate: thou shalt not live,
And take my milk for gall, your murthering ministers,
And take the present horror from the time,
And talk'd apace; and in that hour, my lord,
And thank us for your trouble.
And that distill'd by magic sleights
And that which rather thou dost fear to do
And that which should accompany old age,
And the huge army of the world's desires-
And the late dignities heap'd up to them,
And the rich East to boot.
And the right valiant Banquo walk'd too late,
And the very ports they blow,
And their rough carriage so ridiculous,
And then 'twill end.
And then grace us in the disgrace of death;
And then the King will court thee for his dear;
And then to sleep but three hours in the night
And there an end; but now they rise again,
And therefore is she born to make black fair.
And therefore red that would avoid dispraise
And therefore, finding barren practisers,
And thereupon thou speak'st the fairest shoot.
And therewithal to win me, if you please,
And these are of them. Whither are they vanish'd?
And they well mock'd depart away with shame.
And though I have for barbarism spoke more
And though the mourning brow of progeny
And thrice again, to make up nine.
And to her white hand see thou do commend
And to our dear friend Banquo, whom we miss.
And to the strictest decrees I'll write my name.
And top of sovereignty?
And train our intellects to vain delight.
And travelling along this coast, I bere am come by chance,
And trow you what he call'd me?
And utters it again when God doth please.
And wait the season, and observe the times,
And wakes it now, to look so green and pale
And wash this filthy witness from your hand.
And we that sell by gross, the Lord doth know,
And we'll not fail. When Duncan is asleep-
And wear his colours like a tumbler's hoop!
And wears upon his baby brow the round
And what in us hath seem'd ridiculous,
And what will you do now? How will you live?
And when Love speaks, the voice of all the gods
And when be was a babe, a child, a shrimp,
And when it hath the thing it hunteth most,
And when we have our naked frailties hid,
And where my liege's? All about the breast.
And where we are our learning likewise is;
And who can sever love from charity?
And wit's own grace to grace a learned fool.
And with him pour we, in our country's purge,
And with his former title greet Macbeth.
And with some sweet oblivious antidote
And with thy bloody and invisible hand
And wonder what they were, and to what end
And would afford my speechless vizard half.
And would not take their part? Sinful Macduff,
And wretched fools' secrets heedfully o'er-eye.
And wrong the reputation of your name,
And yet I would not sleep. Merciful powers,
And yet are on't? Live you? or are you aught
And yet dark night strangles the traveling lamp.
And yet seem cold, the time you may so hoodwink.
And yet the eighth appears, who bears a glass
And yet wouldst wrongly win. Thou'ldst have, great Glamis,
And yet your beards forbid me to interpret
And you all know security
And you whose places are the nearest, know
And younger hearings are quite ravished;
And, among three, to love the worst of all,
And, by this virgin palm now kissing thine,
And, gentle Longaville, where lies thy pain?
And, if you prove it, I'll repay it back
And, in our maiden council, rated them
And, like a rat without a tail,
And, out of question, so it is sometimes:
And, to be more than what you were, you would
And, to begin, wench- so God help me, law!-
And, to that dauntless temper of his mind,
And, where that you you have vow'd to study, lords,
And, which is worse, all you have done
Angels are bright still, though the brightest fell.
Another with his finger and his thumb
Another yet! A seventh! I'll see no more!
Approach thou like the rugged Russian bear,
Are angels vailing clouds, or roses blown.
Are but as pictures; 'tis the eye of childhood
Are counselors to fear. What soldiers, whey-face?
Are less than horrible imaginings:
Are made, not mark'd; where violent sorrow seems
Are not you the chief woman? You are the thickest here.
Are numb'red in the travel of one mile?
Are pick-purses in love, and we deserve to die.
Are register'd where every day I turn
Are stol'n away and fled, which puts upon them
Are these the breed of wits so wondered at?
Are to your throne and state, children and servants,
Are we betrayed thus to thy over-view?
Are with a most indissoluble tie
Are ye fantastical or that indeed
Arm, wenches, arm! Encounters mounted are
Armado a th' t'one side- O, a most dainty man!
Armed in arguments; you'll be surpris'd.
Art not without ambition, but without
Art thou not, fatal vision, sensible
As 'twere a careless trifle.
As I for praise alone now seek to spill
As I shall find the time to friend, I will.
As Nature was in making graces dear,
As bombast and as lining to the time;
As breath into the wind. Would they had stay'd!
As bright Apollo's lute, strung with his hair.
As broad and general as the casing air;
As by the strength of their illusion
As cannons overcharged with double cracks,
As fool'ry in the wise when wit doth dote,
As from your graves rise up, and walk like sprites
As gravity's revolt to wantonness.
As happy prologues to the swelling act
As honor, love, obedience, troops of friends,
As honour, without breach of honour, may
As hounds and greyhounds, mongrels, spaniels, curs,
As if it felt with Scotland and yell'd out
As is the razor's edge invisible,
As jewels in crystal for some prince to buy;
As justice, verity, temperance, stableness,
As little is the wisdom, where the flight
As love is full of unbefitting strains,
As motion and long-during action tires
As much in private, and I'll bid adieu.
As one that had been studied in his death,
As our best-moving fair solicitor.
As painfully to pore upon a book
As precious eyesight, and did value me
As seemeth by his plight, of the revolt
As she is troubled with thick-coming fancies,
As sparrows eagles, or the hare the lion.
As the unsullied lily, I protest,
As the weird women promised, and I fear
As they had seen me with these hangman's hands.
As this which now I draw.
As thou art in desire? Wouldst thou have that
As thou didst leave it.
As thou wilt win my favour, good my knave,
As thus: to study where I well may dine,
As to rejoice at friends but newly found.
As true we are as flesh and blood can be.
As two spent swimmers that do cling together
As we shall make our griefs and clamor roar
As will to greatness dedicate themselves,
As wit turn'd fool; folly, in wisdom hatch'd,
As would be cramm'd up in a sheet of paper
As you shall deem yourself lodg'd in my heart,
As, an't please heaven, he shall not -they should find
As: not to see a woman in that term,
Assisted by that most disloyal traitor
At Christmas I no more desire a rose
At courtship, pleasant jest, and courtesy,
At no time broke my faith, would not betray
At one fell swoop?
At our great bidding?
At the first op'ning of the gorgeous east,
At the south entry. Retire we to our chamber.
At wakes, and wassails, meetings, markets, fairs;
At what it did so freely? From this time
Attend his Majesty!
Attend the true event, and put we on
Augures and understood relations have
Authorized by her grandam. Shame itself!
Awake, awake!
Away, and mock the time with fairest show:
Ay, and since too, murthers have been perform'd
Ay, and, by heaven, one that will do the deed,
Balm of hurt minds, great nature's second course,
Banquo and Donalbain! Malcolm, awake!
Be bright and jovial among your guests tonight.
Be call'd our mother, but our grave. Where nothing,
Be large in mirth; anon we'll drink a measure
Be like our warranted quarrel! Why are you silent?
Be not found here; hence, with your little ones.
Be now as prodigal of all dear grace
Be so much more the man. Nor time nor place
Beauteous and swift, the minions of their race,
Beauty doth varnish age, as if new-born,
Beauty is bought by judgment of the eye,
Became him like the leaving it; he died
Before I came. Marry, thus much I have learnt:
Before I saw you; and the world's large tongue
Before the birds have any cause to sing?
Before we enter his forbidden gates,
Began a fresh assault.
Behold the window of my heart, mine eye,
Being but the one half of an entire sum
Berowne they call him; but a merrier man,
Besides the Thane of Cawdor. But 'tis strange;
Best half of our affair.
Bestride our downfall'n birthdom. Each new morn
Between Lord Perigort and the beauteous heir
Beware the Thane of Fife. Dismiss me. Enough.
Blessing upon you!
Bloody instructions, which being taught return
Blow like sweet roses in this summer air.
Boil thou first i' the charmed pot.
Bold of your worthiness, we single you
Both more and less have given him the revolt,
Both sides are even; here I'll sit i' the midst.
Bounty, perseverance, mercy, lowliness,
Bows not his vassal head and, strucken blind,
Boyet, you can produce acquittances
Break the neck of the wax, and every one give ear.
Break up this capon.
Bring thou this fiend of Scotland and myself;
Bruise me with scorn, confound me with a flout,
But I a beam do find in each of three.
But I am faint; my gashes cry for help.
But I believe, although I seem so loath,
But I must also feel it as a man.
But I protest I love to hear him lie,
But are you not ashamed? Nay, are you not,
But as a thing of custom. 'Tis no other,
But be the serpent under it. He that's coming
But being watch'd that it may still go right!
But certain issue strokes must arbitrate.
But come, the bow. Now mercy goes to kill,
But cruel are the times when we are traitors
But float upon a wild and violent sea
But go at once.
But here without you shall be so receiv'd
But here, upon this bank and shoal of time,
But how of Cawdor? The Thane of Cawdor lives,
But if they will not, throw away that spirit,
But if thou strive, poor soul, what are thou then?
But in a sieve I'll thither sail,
But in it shares some woe, though the main part
But is there no quick recreation granted?
But let the frame of things disjoint, both the worlds suffer,
But like of each thing that in season grows;
But love, first learned in a lady's eyes,
But make amends now. Get you gone,
But mine own safeties. You may be rightly just,
But more devout than this in our respects
But no more sights! -Where are these gentlemen?
But now I am cabin'd, cribb'd, confin'd, bound in
But now to task the tasker: good Boyet,
But pardon me, I am too sudden bold;
But say that he or we, as neither have,
But screw your courage to the sticking-place
But seek the weary beds of people sick.
But shift away. There's warrant in that theft
But signs of nobleness, like stars, shall shine
But that it bear this trial, and last love,
But that myself should be the root and father
But that one half which is unsatisfied,
But that thou interruptest our merriment.
But that, it seems, he little purposeth,
But the Norweyan lord, surveying vantage,
But there are other strict observances,
But they did say their prayers and address'd them
But to be safely thus. Our fears in Banquo.
But treasons capital, confess'd and proved,
But under heavy judgement bears that life
But what is not.
But while 'tis spoke each turn away her face.
But who knows nothing, is once seen to smile;
But will you hear? The King is my love sworn.
But with the aid of use.
But with the motion of all elements
But yet 'tis one.
But yet I'll make assurance double sure,
But, Rosaline, you have a favour too?
But, omne bene, say I, being of an old father's mind:
But, peace! For from broad words, and 'cause he fail'd
Buttress, nor coign of vantage, but this bird
By Sinel's death I know I am Thane of Glamis;
By adding a tongue which I know will not lie.
By being once false for ever to be true
By each at once her choppy finger laying
By east, west, north, and south, I spread my conquering might.
By favours several which they did bestow.
By fixing it upon a fairer eye;
By him that shall succeed.
By his loved mansionry that the heaven's breath
By his own interdiction stands accursed
By light we lose light; your capacity
By maggot pies and choughs and rooks brought forth
By many of these trains hath sought to win me
By the heart's still rhetoric disclosed with eyes,
By the name of most kind hostess, and shut up
By the worst means, the worst. For mine own good
By this white glove- how white the hand, God knows!-
By thy favour, sweet welkin, I must sigh in thy face;
By your leave, hostess.                              Exeunt.
Came post with post, and every one did bear
Can any face of brass hold longer out?
Can tell so much, shall Banquo's issue ever
Can touch him further.
Can you still dream, and pore, and thereon look?
Cancel and tear to pieces that great bond
Cannot be ill, cannot be good. If ill,
Cannot conceive nor name thee.
Cannot pick out five such, take each one in his vein.
Canst thou not minister to a mind diseased,
Celestial as thou art, O, pardon love this wrong,
Change not your offer made in heat of blood,
Chief nourisher in life's feast-
Child of integrity, hath from my soul
Clamor'd the livelong night. Some say the earth
Clean from my hand? No, this my hand will rather
Cleanse the stuff'd bosom of that perilous stuff
Climb o'er the house to unlock the little gate.
Come in, without there!
Come like shadows, so depart!
Come when the King doth to my lady come;
Come, bring me where they are.                       Exeunt.
Come, challenge me, challenge me by these deserts;
Come, go we to the King; our power is ready,
Come, put mine armor on; give me my staff.
Come, sir, dispatch. If thou couldst, doctor, cast
Come,sisters, cheer we up his sprites,
Command me any service to her thither?
Command upon me, to the which my duties
Commencing in a truth? I am Thane of Cawdor.
Commends the ingredients of our poison'd chalice
Compell'd these skipping kerns to trust their heels,
Conduct me to mine host. We love him highly,
Confound and swallow navigation up,
Confounds us. Hark! I laid their daggers ready;
Confronted him with self-comparisons,
Consider what you first did swear unto:
Consider who the King your father sends,
Contending 'gainst obedience, as they would make
Convert to anger; blunt not the heart, enrage it.
Convey your pleasures in a spacious plenty
Costard; she deserves well.
Could trammel up the consequence, and catch,
Courage to make 's love known?
Courses as swift as thought in every power,
Cousins, a word, I pray you.
Craving us jointly. Hie you to horse; adieu,
Cried 'Via! we will do't, come what will come.'
Cupid's butt-shaft is too hard for Hercules' club, and therefore
Curbing his lavish spirit; and, to conclude,
Curses, not loud but deep, mouth-honor, breath,
Curtsy, sweet hearts; and so the measure ends.
Cut me to pieces with thy keen conceit;
Cut short all intermission; front to front
Cutting a smaller hair than may be seen,
DUMAIN. Now the number is even.
Dares look upon the heaven of her brow
Days and nights has thirty-one
Deaf'd with the clamours of their own dear groans,
Deal between thee and me! For even now
Dear Duff, I prithee, contradict thyself,
Dear Princess, were not his requests so far
Death of thy soul! Those linen cheeks of thine
Deceive me not now, Navarre is infected.
Delivers in such apt and gracious words
Desire his jewels and this other's house,
Despite of suit, to see a lady's face.
Destroying them for wealth.
Devise, wit; write, pen; for I am for whole volumes in folio.
Devotion, patience, courage, fortitude,
Did never sonnet for her sake compile;
Did not you speak?
Did point you to buy them, along as you pass'd.
Did stumble with haste in his eyesight to be;
Did then adhere, and yet you would make both.
Did you say all? O hell-kite! All?
Die when you will, a smock shall be your shroud.
Died every day she lived. Fare thee well!
Dies in the zeal of that which it presents.
Disbursed by my father in his wars.
Discomfort swells. Mark, King of Scotland, mark.
Disdaining Fortune, with his brandish'd steel,
Disfigure not his slop.
Disguis'd like Muscovites, in shapeless gear;
Disguising what they are.
Dismask'd, their damask sweet commixture shown,
Distinguishes the swift, the slow, the subtle,
Ditch-deliver'd by a drab,
Do I put up that womanly defense,
Do breed unnatural troubles; infected minds
Do call it valiant fury; but, for certain,
Do faithful homage, and receive free honors-
Do meet, as at a fair, in her fair cheek,
Do mock their charge with snores. I have drugg'd their possets
Do not muse at me, my most worthy friends.
Do not you know my lady's foot by th' squier,
Do one thing for me that I shall entreat.
Do swarm upon him -from the Western Isles
Do we not likewise see our learning there?
Does unmake you. I have given suck and know
Doth falsely blind the eyesight of his look.
Doth noise abroad Navarre hath made a vow,
Doth ravish like enchanting harmony;
Doubly redoubled strokes upon the foe.
Dread prince of plackets, king of codpieces,
Due to some single breast?
Dumain transformed! Four woodcocks in a dish!
Dumain?
Duncan comes here tonight.
Dying or ere they sicken.
Each corporal agent to this terrible feat.
Each drop of us.
Each minute teems a new one.
Each way and move. I take my leave of you;
Else none at all in aught proves excellent.
Enchanting all that you put in.
Enter Edgar, armed, at the third sound, a Trumpet before him.
Enter Lear, with Cordelia [dead] in his arms, [Edgar, Captain,
Ere humane statute purged the gentle weal;
Ere we will eat our meal in fear and sleep
Ergo I come with this apology.
Err in report of us.
Esteem him as a lamb, being compared
Even like the deed that's done. On Tuesday last
Even till destruction sicken, answer me
Even to the disposition that I owe
Even to the opposed end of our intents;
Except they meant to bathe in reeking wounds,
Excite the mortified man.
Excuse me so, coming too short of thanks
Expire before the flowers in their caps,
Eye of newt and toe of frog,
Fair is foul, and foul is fair.
Fair payment for foul words is more than due.
Faith infringed which such zeal did swear?
False face must hide what the false heart doth know.
Farewell.                                       Exit Banquo.
Fat paunches have lean pates; and dainty bits
Feed, and regard him not-Are you a man?
Fell over the threshold and broke my shin.
Fell slaughter on their souls. Heaven rest them now!
Fie, painted rhetoric! O, she needs it not!
Figures pedantical- these summer-flies
Finding it so inclined.
Finely put off!
Finely put on indeed!
Finely put on!
Finger of birth-strangled babe
Fire burn and cauldron bubble.
Fire burn and cauldron bubble.
Fire burn and cauldron bubble.
First, as I am his kinsman and his subject,
Flat treason 'gainst the kingly state of youth.
Fleance his son, that keeps him company,
Fleance is 'scaped.
Fleeter than arrows, bullets, wind, thought, swifter things.
Fly to the court of England and unfold
Following the signs, woo'd but the sign of she.
Food for his rage, repasture for his den.'
For 'tis my limited service.                           Exit.
For 'twould have anger'd any heart alive
For Banquo's issue have I filed my mind,
For Fleance fled. Men must not walk too late.
For a charm of powerful trouble,
For a dark hour or twain.
For a few words.
For all the wealth that ever I did see,
For all your fair endeavours, and entreat,
For as it would ill become me to be vain, indiscreet, or a fool,
For brave Macbeth -well he deserves that name-
For certain friends that are both his and mine,
For charity itself fulfils the law,
For every man with his affects is born,
For every object that the one doth catch
For every one pursents three.
For fear their colours should be wash'd away.
For goodness dare not check thee. Wear thou thy wrongs;
For he hath been five thousand year a boy.
For he hath wit to make an ill shape good,
For here he doth demand to have repaid
For in my way it lies. Stars, hide your fires;
For interim to our studies shall relate,
For it is thine.
For it must seem their guilt.         Exit. Knocking within.
For my great suit so easily obtain'd.
For my heart speaks they are welcome.
For native blood is counted painting now;
For none offend where all alike do dote.
For revels, dances, masks, and merry hours,
For ruin's wasteful entrance; there, the murtherers,
For strangers to my nature. I am yet
For such a sum from special officers
For sundry weighty reasons.
For that I saw the tyrant's power afoot.
For the Lord's tokens on you do I see.
For the blood-bolter'd Banquo smiles upon me,
For the ingredients of our cawdron.
For the remembrance of my father's death.
For the whole space that's in the tyrant's grasp
For them the gracious Duncan have I murther'd,
For thy undaunted mettle should compose
For valour, is not Love a Hercules,
For virtue's office never breaks men's troth.
For well you know here comes in embassy
For when would you, my liege, or you, or you,
For when would you, my lord, or you, or you,
For where is author in the world
For where there is advantage to be given,
For wisdom's sake, a word that all men love;
For you'll prove perjur'd if you make me stay.
For your fair sakes have we neglected time,
For, ladies, we will every one be mask'd;
Forbid the smiling courtesy of love
Forerun fair Love, strewing her way with flowers.
Forestall our sport, to make us thus untrue?
Forever knit.
Form'd by the eye and therefore, like the eye,
Free from our feasts and banquets bloody knives,
From morn till night out of his pavilion.
From over-credulous haste. But God above
From reason's yielding, your fair self should make
From tawny Spain lost in the world's debate.
From the murtherer's gibbet throw
From thence the sauce to meat is ceremony;
From what it purpos'd; since to wail friends lost
From what we fear, yet know not what we fear,
From whence doth spring the true Promethean fire.
From whence himself does fly? He loves us not;
From whom this tyrant holds the due of birth,
From women's eyes this doctrine I derive.
From women's eyes this doctrine I derive:
Full of comparisons and wounding flouts,
Full of dear guiltiness; and therefore this,
Full of strange shapes, of habits, and of forms,
Gall of goat and slips of yew
Gate, he should have old turning the key. [Knocking within.]
Gave Hector a gift, the heir of Ilion;
Gave Hector a gift-
Gentle my lord, sleek o'er your rugged looks;
Get on your nightgown, lest occasion call us
Give me my armor.
Give me my sword.
Give me the daggers. The sleeping and the dead
Give me the paper; let me read the same;
Give solely sovereign sway and masterdom.
Give sorrow words. The grief that does not speak
Give to our tables meat, sleep to our nights,
Given to the common enemy of man,
Gives way to in repose!
Glamis thou art, and Cawdor, and shalt be
Glory grows guilty of detested crimes,
God amend us, God amend! We are much out o' th' way.
God, God, forgive us all! Look after her;
Golden opinions from all sorts of people,
Good heart, what grace hast thou thus to reprove
Good things of day begin to droop and drowse,
Grace!
Grant us your loves.
Grapples you to the heart and love of us,
Great Birnam Wood to high Dunsinane Hill
Great Glamis! Worthy Cawdor!
Great business must be wrought ere noon:
Great tyranny, lay thou thy basis sure,
Greater than both, by the all-hail hereafter!
Guilty, my lord, guilty! I confess, I confess.
Had he been Adam, he had tempted Eve.
Hang loose about him, like a giant's robe
Hang me by the neck, if horns that year miscarry.
Hang those that talk of fear. Give me mine armor.
Hang upon his penthouse lid;
Hanging a golden stamp about their necks
Hark! I am call'd; my little spirit, see,
Hark, slave, it is but this:
Haste, signify so much; while we attend,
Hath been but for a wayward son,
Hath borne his faculties so meek, hath been
Hath in him closed, whereby he does receive
Hath left you unattended. [Knocking within.] Hark, more knocking.
Hath made his pendant bed and procreant cradle;
Hath much deformed us, fashioning our humours
Hath nature that in time will venom breed,
Hath not yet lighted, and our safest way
Hath rung night's yawning peal, there shall be done
Hath so exasperate the King that he
Hath this brave manage, this career, been run.
Hath trifled former knowings.
Hath wisdom's warrant and the help of school,
Have at you, then, affection's men-at-arms.
Have banish'd me from Scotland. O my breast,
Have blown me full of maggot ostentation.
Have brought about the annual reckoning.
Have chose as umpire of their mutiny.
Have done to this.
Have found the ground of study's excellence
Have misbecom'd our oaths and gravities,
Have no more profit of their shining nights
Have not the grace to grace it with such show.
Have overthrown him.
Have pluck'd my nipple from his boneless gums
Have so incensed that I am reckless what
Have sworn for three years' term to live with me
Have theirs, themselves, and what is theirs, in compt,
Have we not been; and therefore met your loves
Have you consider'd of my speeches? Know
He bade me, from him, call thee Thane of Cawdor.
He brings great news.                        Exit Messenger.
He cannot buckle his distemper'd cause
He clepeth a calf 'cauf,' half 'hauf'; neighbour vocatur
He could not miss 'em. Had he not resembled
He finds thee in the stout Norweyan ranks,
He has borne all things well; and I do think
He hath a heavenly gift of prophecy,
He hath a wisdom that doth guide his valor
He hath been in unusual pleasure and
He hath honor'd me of late, and I have bought
He hath not eat paper, as it were; he hath not drunk ink; his
He hath not touch'd you yet. I am young, but something
He is noble, wise, Judicious, and best knows
He is wit's pedlar, and retails his wares
He labor'd in his country's wreck, I know not;
He rather means to lodge you in the field,
He reputes me a cannon; and the bullet, that's he;
He shall live a man forbid.
He shall spurn fate, scorn death, and bear
He throws upon the gross world's baser slaves;
He wants the natural touch; for the poor wren,
He was a gentleman on whom I built
He will again be well. If much you note him,
He, he, and you- and you, my liege!- and I
Hear his speech, but say thou nought.
Hear it not, Duncan, for it is a knell
Hear not my steps, which way they walk, for fear
Heaven forgive him too!
Heaven knows what she has known.
Hector of Troy; the swain, Pompey the Great; the parish curate,
Hector.
Hence hermit then, my heart is in thy breast.
Henceforth my wooing mind shall be express'd
Her favour turns the fashion of the days;
Her feet were much too dainty for such tread!
Her husband's to Aleppo gone, master the Tiger;
Her nine farrow; grease that's sweaten
Her shoulder is with child.
Her young ones in her nest, against the owl.
Here comes Navarre.
Here comes the good Macduff.
Here stand I, lady- dart thy skill at me,
Here, good my glass, take this for telling true:
Hid in an auger hole, may rush and seize us?
Himself best knows; but strangely-visited people,
His cloister'd flight, ere to black Hecate's summons
His eye begets occasion for his wit,
His face's own margent did quote such amazes
His flight was madness. When our actions do not,
His heart, like an agate, with your print impressed,
His hopes 'bove wisdom, grace, and fear.
His loving bosom, to keep down his heart.
His mansion, and his titles, in a place
His message ere he come, that a swift blessing
His pester'd senses to recoil and start,
His presence at the tyrant's feast, I hear,
His secret murthers sticking on his hands,
His silver skin laced with his golden blood,
His spongy officers, who shall bear the guilt
His tongue, all impatient to speak and not see,
His uncle Siward, and the good Macduff.
His wife, his babes, and all unfortunate souls
His wisdom can provide. Some holy angel
His wonders and his praises do contend
Hold fast the mortal sword, and like good men
Hold, Rosaline, this favour thou shalt wear,
Hold, take thou this, my sweet, and give me thine,
Holding a trencher, jesting merrily?
Horace says in his- What, my soul, verses?
Horrible sight! Now I see 'tis true;
Hours dreadful and things strange, but this sore night
Hover through the fog and filthy air.                Exeunt.
How I would make him fawn, and beg, and seek,
How does your patient, doctor?
How easy is it then! Your constancy
How goes the world, sir, now?
How is't with me, when every noise appals me?
How it did grieve Macbeth! Did he not straight,
How many inches doth fill up one mile.
How now, my lord? Why do you keep alone,
How now, what news?
How shall she know my griefs? I'll drop the paper-
How tender 'tis to love the babe that milks me-
How will he scorn, how will he spend his wit!
How will he triumph, leap, and laugh at it!
How you delight, my lords, I know not, I;
How you shall bid God 'ield us for your pains,
How you were borne in hand, how cross'd, the instruments,
Huge!
I am a man again. Pray you sit still.
I am afraid to think what I have done;
I am as I have spoken.
I am betrayed by keeping company
I am compar'd to twenty thousand fairs.
I am for the air; this night I'll spend
I am forsworn on mere necessity.
I am in this earthly world, where to do harm
I am less proud to hear you tell my worth
I am that flower-
I am the last that will last keep his oath.
I cannot but remember such things were
I cannot taint with fear. What's the boy Malcolm?
I cannot tell-
I dare abide no longer.                                Exit.
I dare do all that may become a man;
I dare not call them fools; but this I think,
I do forswear them; and I here protest,
I do to spite the world.
I doubt some danger does approach you nearly.
I dreamt last night of the three weird sisters:
I drink to the general joy o' the whole table,
I go, and it is done; the bell invites me.
I had lived a blessed time, for from this instant
I had most need of blessing, and "Amen"
I have a strange infirmity, which is nothing
I have almost slipp'd the hour.
I have been closely shrouded in this bush,
I have begun to plant thee, and will labor
I have done no harm. But I remember now
I have lived long enough. My way of life
I have no relish of them, but abound
I have seen him do. How he solicits heaven,
I have thee not, and yet I see thee still.
I hear your Grace hath sworn out house-keeping.
I heard your guilty rhymes, observ'd your fashion,
I hope it is not so.
I hope, sir, three times thrice, sir-
I keep a servant feed. I will tomorrow,
I knew her by this jewel on her sleeve.
I made a little fault in Great.
I must become a borrower of the night
I must not look to have; but in their stead,
I never spent an hour's talk withal.
I never swore this lady such an oath.
I only have made a mouth of his eye,
I only swore to study with your Grace,
I pray you, school yourself. But for your husband,
I put myself to thy direction and
I saw him at the Duke Alencon's once;
I see the trick on't: here was a consent,
I see thee yet, in form as palpable
I shall be counsel'd.
I shall be forsworn- which is a great argument of falsehood- if I
I shoot thee at the swain.
I should cut off the nobles for their lands,
I should have fear'd her had she been a devil.'
I speak not as in absolute fear of you.
I stole into a neighbour thicket by,
I take my leave at once.                               Exit.
I that am honest, I that hold it sin
I think our country sinks beneath the yoke;
I think, but dare not speak.
I thought to close mine eyes some half an hour;
I were the fairest goddess on the ground.
I will advise you where to plant yourselves,
I will be thine; and, till that instant, shut
I will drain him dry as hay:
I will example it:
I will forward with my device. [To the PRINCESS] Sweet royalty,
I will not be afraid of death and bane
I will say nothing. I thank God I have as little patience as
I would applaud thee to the very echo,
I would be glad to see it.
I would not be the villain that thou think'st
I would not have him know so much by me.
I would not yield to be your house's guest;
I would, while it was smiling in my face,
I' the shipman's card.
I'll be myself the harbinger, and make joyful
I'll catch it ere it come to ground.
I'll change my black gown for a faithful friend.
I'll charm the air to give a sound,
I'll come to you anon.
I'll do, I'll do, and I'll do.
I'll find a fairer face not wash'd to-day.
I'll gild the faces of the grooms withal,
I'll give you Aquitaine and all that is his,
I'll jest a twelvemonth in an hospital.
I'll leave it by degrees. Soft, let us see-
I'll mark no words that smooth-fac'd wooers say.
I, Costard, running out, that was safely within,
If I break faith, this word shall speak for me:
If I say sooth, I must report they were
If charnel houses and our graves must send
If fairings come thus plentifully in.
If for my love, as there is no such cause,
If frosts and fasts, hard lodging and thin weeds,
If good, why do I yield to that suggestion
If it find heaven, must find it out tonight.           Exit.
If knowledge be the mark, to know thee shall suffice;
If over-boldly we have borne ourselves
If so, our copper buys no better treasure.            Exeunt
If sore be sore, then L to sore makes fifty sores o' sorel.
If study's gain be thus, and this be so,
If that she learn not of her eye to look.
If then the King your father will restore
If they do speak our language, 'tis our will
If they return in their own shapes to woo?
If this austere insociable life
If this thou do deny, let our hands part,
If trembling I inhabit then, protest me
If virtue's gloss will stain with any soil,
If wounding, then it was to show my skill,
If you are arm'd to do as sworn to do,
If you can look into the seeds of time,
If you will take a homely man's advice,
If you would grant the time.
If your ladyship would say 'Thanks, Pompey,' I had done.
Immediately they will again be here
Implored your Highness' pardon, and set forth
Importunes personal conference with his Grace.
Impose some service on me for thy love.
Impostors to true fear, would well become
In England and in Ireland, not confessing
In Normandy, saw I this Longaville.
In Russian habit; here they stayed an hour
In an imperial charge. But I shall crave your pardon;
In borrow'd robes?
In conflict, that you get the sun of them.
In courtesy gives undeserving praise.
In deepest consequence-
In doing it, pays itself. Your Highness' part
In drops of sorrow. Sons, kinsmen, thanes,
In every point twice done, and then done double,
In evils to top Macbeth.
In high-born words, the worth of many a knight
In honourable terms; nay, he can sing
In leaden contemplation have found out
In measureless content.
In my most ill-composed affection such
In my voluptuousness. Your wives, your daughters,
In nature is a tyranny; it hath been
In our last conference, pass'd in probation with you:
In pious rage, the two delinquents tear
In pruning me? When shall you hear that I
In restless ecstasy. Duncan is in his grave;
In riddles and affairs of death,
In russet yeas, and honest kersey noes.
In seeking to augment it, but still keep
In so unseeming to confess receipt
In spending your wit in the praise of mine.
In that each of you have forsworn his book,
In the affliction of these terrible dreams
In the cauldron boil and bake;
In the converse of breath- your gentleness
In the division of each several crime,
In the great hand of God I stand, and thence
In the poison'd entrails throw.
In their own fashion, like a merriment.
In their own shapes; for it can never be
In this day's council; but we'll take tomorrow.
In thunder, lightning, or in rain?
In viewing o'er the rest o' the selfsame day,
In which addition, hail, most worthy Thane,
In your rich wisdom to excuse or hide
Industrious soldiership.
Into his power, and modest wisdom plucks me
Into the flame.
Is a sharp wit match'd with too blunt a will,
Is added to her wounds. I think withal
Is fall'n into the sear, the yellow leaf,
Is gone to pray the holy King, upon his aid
Is he dispatch'd?
Is heavy in my tongue. The King your father-
Is in one mile? If they have measured many,
Is left this vault to brag of.
Is likewise yours. We to ourselves prove false,
Is mortals' chiefest enemy.
Is my report to his great worthiness.
Is not by much so wholesome-profitable
Is not lead a metal heavy, dull, and slow?
Is not thy master with him? who, were't so,
Is of that nature that to your huge store
Is often laudable, to do good sometime
Is ripe for shaking, and the powers above
Is smother'd in surmise, and nothing is
Is stopped, the very source of it is stopp'd.
Is that lead slow which is fir'd from a gun?
Is the initiate fear that wants hard use.
Is there scarce ask'd for who, and good men's lives
Is thine and my poor country's to command.
Is this a dagger which I see before me,
Is to avoid the aim. Therefore to horse;
Is to receive our duties, and our duties
Is't far you ride'!
Is't night's predominance, or the day's shame,
It adds a precious seeing to the eye:
It cannot be; it is impossible;
It doth forget to do the thing it should;
It had been as a gap in our great feast
It is a banquet to me. Let's after him,
It is a peerless kinsman.                  Flourish. Exeunt.
It is concluded: Banquo, thy soul's flight,
It is religion to be thus forsworn;
It is the bloody business which informs
It is too full o' the milk of human kindness
It is writ to Jaquenetta.
It mourns that painting and usurping hair
It shall make honor for you.
It should none spare that come within his power.
It should not stand in thy posterity,
It was for Malcolm and for Donalbain
It was the owl that shriek'd, the fatal bellman,
It weeps, it bleeds, and each new day a gash
It were a fault to snatch words from my tongue.
It were done quickly. If the assassination
It would be my disgrace and your discomfort.
Itself for being there?
Jack hath not Jill. These ladies' courtesy
Jaquenetta's, and that 'a wears next his heart for a favour.
Judas I am, ycliped Maccabaeus.
Judas I am-
Keep it not from me, quickly let me have it.
Keep some state in thy exit, and vanish.      [MOTH retires]
Keeps still in Dunsinane and will endure
King, who all-hailed me 'Thane of Cawdor'; by which title,
King. 'with a child of our grandmother Eve, a female; or, for thy
Kisses the base ground with obedient breast?
Knock, knock, knock! Who's there, i' the name of Belzebub? Here's
Know Banquo was your enemy.
Know what they would.
Knowing aforehand of our merriment,
Lady Rosaline.
Lamentings heard i' the air, strange screams of death,
Latin word for three farthings. Three farthings- remuneration.
Lays blame upon his promise. Please't your Highness
Learning is but an adjunct to ourself,
Leave all the rest to me.                            Exeunt.
Led you to Duncan. O, these flaws and starts,
Lend me the flourish of all gentle tongues-
Lent us good Siward and ten thousand men;
Lest our old robes sit easier than our new!
Let every man be master of his time
Let me see: a fat l'envoy; ay, that's a fat goose.
Let not light see my black and deep desires.
Let not my jealousies be your dishonors,
Let not the cloud of sorrow justle it
Let the mark have a prick in't, to mete at, if it may be.
Let us complain to them what fools were here,
Let us once lose our oaths to find ourselves,
Let your remembrance apply to Banquo;
Let's away,
Let's make us medicines of our great revenge,
Let's mock them still, as well known as disguis'd.
Letting "I dare not" wait upon "I would"
Liege of all loiterers and malcontents,
Light wenches may prove plagues to men forsworn;
Light, seeking light, doth light of light beguile;
Like Muscovites or Russians, as I guess.
Like Valor's minion carved out his passage
Like a demigod here sit I in the sky,
Like a hell-broth boil and bubble.
Like elves and fairies in a ring,
Like humble-visag'd suitors, his high will.
Like one that comes here to besiege his court,
Like our strange garments, cleave not to their mould
Like syllable of dolor.
Like the poor cat i' the adage?
Listening their fear, I could not say "Amen,"
Live regist'red upon our brazen tombs,
Liver of blaspheming Jew,
Lives in the English court and is received
Lives not alone immured in the brain,
Lizard's leg and howlet's wing,
Lo you, here she comes! This is her very guise, and, upon my
Look like the time; bear welcome in your eye,
Look on't again I dare not.
Look what I have.
Look you what I have from the loving King.
Lord, Lord! how the ladies and I have put him down!
Lords o'er their lords?
Love is a familiar; Love is a devil. There is no evil angel but
Love's feeling is more soft and sensible
Love's tongue proves dainty Bacchus gross in taste.
Love. Yet was Samson so tempted, and he had an excellent
Loves for his own ends, not for you.
Loyal and neutral, in a moment? No man.
Luxurious, avaricious, false, deceitful,
Macbeth does murther sleep" -the innocent sleep,
Macbeth doth come.
Macbeth shall never vanquish'd be until
Maccabaeus.
Macduff is fled to England.
Macduff lives in disgrace. Sir, can you tell
Make heaven drowsy with the harmony.
Make it their walk.
Make rich the ribs, but bankrupt quite the wits.
Make tender of to thy true worthiness.
Make the gruel thick and slab.
Make we our march towards Birnam.           Exeunt marching.
Makes us hear something.
Makes wing to the rooky wood;
Making the bold wag by their praises bolder.
Making the green one red.
Malcolm and Donalbain, the King's two sons,
Malice domestic, foreign levy, nothing,
Many can brook the weather that love not the wind.
Mark Antony's was by Caesar. He chid the sisters
Masking the business from the common eye
Matchless Navarre; the plea of no less weight
May read strange matters. To beguile the time,
May soon return to this our suffering country
May they not be my oracles as well
Meantime receive such welcome at my hand
Meet me i' the morning. Thither he
Meet we the medicine of the sickly weal,
Meeting were bare without it.
Mend him who can. The ladies call him sweet;
Metheglin, wort, and malmsey; well run dice!
Methought all his senses were lock'd in his eye,
Might be the be-all and the end-all -here,
Might have been mine! Only I have left to say,
Might shake off fifty, looking in her eye.
Might well have made our sport a comedy.
Might yet enkindle you unto the crown,
Mine eyes are made the fools o' the other senses,
Mirth cannot move a soul in agony.
More fairer than fair, beautiful than beauteous, truer than truth
More is thy due than more than all can pay.
More needs she the divine than the physician.
More potent than the first.
More sacks to the mill! O heavens, I have my wish!
More shall they speak; for now I am bent to know,
More suffer and more sundry ways than ever,
Most power to do most harm, least knowing ill,
Most rude melancholy, valour gives thee place.
Most sacrilegious murther hath broke ope
Moves like a ghost. Thou sure and firm-set earth,
Much upon this it is; [To BOYET] and might not you
Must be provided for; and you shall put
Must lave our honors in these flattering streams,
Must minister to himself.
Muster your wits; stand in your own defence;
My Lord Berowne, see him delivered o'er;
My bosom franchised and allegiance clear,
My father as he slept, I had done't.
My father is not dead, for all your saying.
My favour were as great: be witness this.
My fellow-scholars, and to keep those statutes
My genius is rebuked, as it is said
My herald is return'd.
My husband!
My lady, to the manner of the days,
My lips are no common, though several they be.
My love to thee is sound, sans crack or flaw.
My love, her mistress, is a gracious moon;
My mind she has mated and amazed my sight.
My red dominical, my golden letter:
My scutcheon plain declares that I am Alisander-
My thought, whose murther yet is but fantastical,
My wife kill'd too?
My woeful self up in a mournful house,
Nathaniel?
Nature seems dead, and wicked dreams abuse
Navarre shall be the wonder of the world;
Nay, I have verses too, I thank Berowne;
Nay, to be perjur'd, which is worst of all;
Needs not the painted flourish of your praise.
Neither intitled in the other's heart.
Never durst poet touch a pen to write
New hatch'd to the woeful time. The obscure bird
New widows howl, new orphans cry, new sorrows
Nimbly and sweetly recommends itself
Nip not the gaudy blossoms of your love,
No face is fair that is not full so black.
No less in truth than life. My first false speaking
No less to have done so; let me infold thee
No more than to be Cawdor. Say from whence
No sheep, sweet lamb, unless we feed on your lips.
No son of mine succeeding. If't be so,
No sooner justice had, with valor arm'd,
No teeth for the present. Get thee gone. Tomorrow
No woman may approach his silent court.
No, no, my lord, your Grace is perjur'd much,
No, not to live. O nation miserable!
Nor God, nor I, delights in perjur'd men.
Nor heaven peep through the blanket of the dark
Nor never come in vizard to my friend,
Nor never lay his wreathed arms athwart
Nor never more in Russian habit wait.
Nor to the motion of a school-boy's tongue,
Nor to their penn'd speech render we no grace;
Nor woo in rhyme, like a blind harper's song.
Nor would we deign him burial of his men
Norway himself, with terrible numbers,
Nose of Turk and Tartar's lips,
Not a word with him but a jest.
Not bear the knife myself. Besides, this Duncan
Not by might mast'red, but by special grace.
Not cast aside so soon.
Not for their own demerits, but for mine,
Not i' the worst rank of manhood, say it,
Not pay thee.
Not to behold-
Not to see ladies, study, fast, not sleep!
Not unaccompanied invest him only,
Not utt'red by base sale of chapmen's tongues;
Not wounding, pity would not let me do't;
Not yet? No dance! Thus change I like the moon.
Nothing afeard of what thyself didst make,
Nothing becomes him ill that he would well.
Nothing but males. Will it not be received,
Nothing in love. Now does he feel his title
Now by my maiden honour, yet as pure
Now go to the door, and stay there till we call.
Now good digestion wait on appetite,
Now if you have a station in the file,
Now is the time of help; your eye in Scotland
Now minutely revolts upbraid his faith-breach;
Now spurs the lated traveler apace
Now we'll together, and the chance of goodness
Now will I begin your moral, and do you follow with my l'envoy.
Now will I look to his remuneration. Remuneration! O, that's the
Now, for not looking on a woman's face,
Now, to our perjury to add more terror,
O Banquo, Banquo!
O heresy in fair, fit for these days!
O short-liv'd pride! Not fair? Alack for woe!
O sweet Maria, empress of my love!
O that I knew he were but in by th' week!
O that your face were not so full of O's!
O thou monster Ignorance, how deformed dost thou look!
O worthiest cousin!
O' my troth, most sweet jests, most incony vulgar wit!
O, 'tis the sun that maketh all things shine!
O, but for my love, day would turn to night!
O, dismiss this audience, and I shall tell you more.
O, he hath drawn my picture in his letter!
O, if in black my lady's brows be deckt,
O, me, with what strict patience have I sat,
O, never will I trust to speeches penn'd,
O, sir, plantain, a plain plantain; no l'envoy, no l'envoy; no
O, then his lines would ravish savage ears,
O, these are barren tasks, too hard to keep,
O, we have made a vow to study, lords,
O, what a scene of fool'ry have I seen,
O, who can give an oath? Where is a book?
O, would the King, Berowne and Longaville,
Of Birnam rise, and our high-placed Macbeth
Of Charles his father.
Of Jaques Falconbridge, solemnized
Of all complexions the cull'd sovereignty
Of all perfections that a man may owe,
Of all that virtue love for virtue loved;
Of all the gentry. There is Seward's son
Of beauty's tutors have enrich'd you with?
Of dire combustion and confused events
Of direst cruelty! Make thick my blood,
Of goodly thousands. But for all this,
Of heavenly oaths, vowed with integrity.
Of him that hears it, never in the tongue
Of him that makes it; then, if sickly ears,
Of his almighty dreadful little might.
Of his fair mistress. In the afternoon
Of his own chamber and used their very daggers,
Of horrid hell can come a devil more damn'd
Of kerns and gallowglasses is supplied;
Of many kings. If there come truth from them
Of many weary miles you have o'ergone
Of many worthy fellows that were out,
Of nature's germaines tumble all together
Of noble having and of royal hope,
Of one sore I an hundred make by adding but one more L.
Of our great quell?
Of sighs, of groans, of sorrow, and of teen!
Of sorriest fancies your companions making,
Of such a merry, nimble, stirring spirit,
Of that dark hour. Resolve yourselves apart;
Of that which hath so faithfully been paid.
Of the imperial theme-I thank you, gentlemen.
Of the most pious Edward with such grace
Of the old rage; bear with me, I am sick;
Of the ravin'd salt-sea shark,
Of treasonous malice.
Of trotting paritors. O my little heart!
Of your mere own. All these are portable,
Oftener upon her knees than on her feet,
Old Mantuan, old Mantuan! Who understandeth thee not,
Old Siward, with ten thousand warlike men
On Navarre and his book-men, for here 'tis abused.
On Saturday we will return to France.
On all deservers. From hence to Inverness,
On payment of a hundred thousand crowns,
On serious business, craving quick dispatch,
On the tabor to the Worthies, and let them dance the hay.
On which I must fall down, or else o'erleap,
One o' these maids' girdles for your waist should be fit.
One of my fellows had the speed of him,
One part of Aquitaine is bound to us,
One rubb'd his elbow, thus, and fleer'd, and swore
One who the music of his own vain tongue
One, her hairs were gold; crystal the other's eyes.
Only for praise sake, when they strive to be
Only for them, and mine eternal jewel
Only it spoils the pleasure of the time.
Only to herald thee into his sight,
Open, locks,
Or else we lose ourselves to keep our oaths.
Or else worth all the rest. I see thee still,
Or ever but in vizards show their faces?
Or for Love's sake, a word that loves all men;
Or for men's sake, the authors of these women;
Or from our masters'?
Or groan for Joan? or spend a minute's time
Or have we eaten on the insane root
Or hide your heads like cowards, and fly hence.
Or memorize another Golgotha,
Or pricket sore, or else sorel; the people fall a-hooting.
Or show the glory of our art?
Or study where to meet some mistress fine,
Or vainly comes th' admired princess hither.
Or wear it on my sword, yet my poor country
Or women's sake, by whom we men are men-
Or yield up Aquitaine.
Or, having sworn too hard-a-keeping oath,
Or, keeping what is sworn, you will prove fools.
Other slow arts entirely keep the brain;
Our bosom interest. Go pronounce his present death,
Our captains, Macbeth and Banquo.?
Our chimneys were blown down, and, as they say,
Our court shall be a little Academe,
Our duties did his welcome pay.
Our duty is so rich, so infinite,
Our eldest, Malcolm, whom we name hereafter
Our fears do make us traitors.
Our free hearts each to other.
Our hostess keeps her state, but in best time
Our innocent self? This I made good to you
Our knocking has awaked him; here he comes.
Our lack is nothing but our leave. Macbeth
Our late edict shall strongly stand in force:
Our love being yours, the error that love makes
Our loving lawful, and our faith not torn.
Our offices and what we have to do
Our person misdoubts it: 'twas treason, he said.
Our pleasure?
Our point of second meeting. Do you find
Our royal master's murther'd.
Our setting down before't.
Our tears are not yet brew'd.
Our will became the servant to defect,
Out of a new-sad soul, that you vouchsafe
Out-
Outrun the pauser reason. Here lay Duncan,
Paints itself black, to imitate her brow.
Pale Hecate's offerings; and wither'd Murther,
Particular addition, from the bill
Pay him the due of 'honey-tongued Boyet.'
Peace! The charm's wound up.
Pell-mell, down with them! be first advis'd,
Perform what you command us.
Pertains to you alone.
Play'd foul play with our oaths; your beauty, ladies,
Pluck from the memory a rooted sorrow,
Point against point rebellious, arm 'gainst arm,
Pompey is uncasing for the combat? What mean you? You will lose
Pompey surnam'd the Great,
Posters of the sea and land,
Pour the sweet milk of concord into hell,
Prepares for some attempt of war.
Presence majestical would put him out;
Present him eminence, both with eye and tongue:
Princess, sweet chuck, with some delightful ostentation, or show,
Proceeding from the heat-oppressed brain?
Proclaims you for a man replete with mocks,
Profit again should hardly draw me here.             Exeunt.
Promised no less to them?
Protest their first of manhood.
Proud with his form, in his eye pride expressed;
Put on by us, if in your heavenly eyes
Put on their instruments. Receive what cheer you may,
Put on with holy prayers; and 'tis spoken,
Put rancors in the vessel of my peace
Quarrels unjust against the good and loyal,
Queen Guinever of Britain was a little wench, as touching the hit
Question enrages him. At once, good night.
Quoniam he seemeth in minority,
Raining the tears of lamentation
Rather than so, come, Fate, into the list,
Raze out the written troubles of the brain,
Rebellion's head, rise never till the Wood
Receiv'd that sum, yet there remains unpaid
Regent of love-rhymes, lord of folded arms,
Reign in this kingdom?
Reigns in my blood, and will rememb'red be.
Reigns that which would be fear'd. 'Tis much he dares,
Remains in danger of her former tooth.
Remote from all the pleasures of the world;
Remove from her the means of all annoyance,
Restrain in me the cursed thoughts that nature
Returning were as tedious as go o'er.
Revenges burn in them, for their dear causes
Right joyful of your reformation.
Ring the alarum bell. Murther and treason!
Root of hemlock digg'd i' the dark,
Ruminat-
Run away, I pray you!                                  Dies.
Safe toward your love and honor.
Saucy and overbold? How did you dare
Savagely slaughter'd. To relate the manner
Save base authority from others' books.
Saw sighs reek from you, noted well your passion.
Say to the King the knowledge of the broil
Say, "Thus did Banquo."
Say, can you fast? Your stomachs are too young,
Scarce show a harvest of their heavy toil;
Scarcely have coveted what was mine own,
Scarf up the tender eye of pitiful day,
Scotland hath foisons to fill up your will
Sea-sick, I think, coming from Muscovy.
See, and then speak yourselves.
Seemeth their conference; their conceits have wings,
Seize upon Fife, give to the edge o' the sword
Send out more horses, skirr the country round,
Sent forth great largess to your offices.
Seyton!
Seyton, send out. Doctor, the Thanes fly from me.
Seyton-I am sick at heart,
Shake my fell purpose nor keep peace between
Shake off this downy sleep, death's counterfeit,
Shakes so my single state of man that function
Shall be a fume and the receipt of reason
Shall be the maws of kites.                      Exit Ghost.
Shall blow the horrid deed in every eye,
Shall come against him.                            Descends.
Shall draw him on to his confusion.
Shall e'er have power upon thee." Then fly, false Thanes,
Shall harm Macbeth.                                Descends.
Shall have more vices than it had before,
Shall he dwindle, peak, and pine;
Shall keep us both the safer. Where we are
Shall live the lease of nature, pay his breath
Shall never sag with doubt nor shake with fear.
Shall never tremble. Or be alive again,
Shall not be long but I'll be here again.
Shall raise such artificial sprites
Shall sleep no more. Macbeth shall sleep no more."
Shall sun that morrow see!
Shall we resolve to woo these girls of France?
Shall we well meet them; that way are they coming.
She is a most sweet lady.
She is an heir of Falconbridge.
She might 'a been a grandam ere she died.
She must lie here on mere necessity.
She passes praise; then praise too short doth blot.
She strike upon the bell. Get thee to bed.     Exit Servant.
She'll close and be herself, whilst our poor malice
She, an attending star, scarce seen a light.
Shipwrecking storms and direful thunders break,
Shoughs, waterrugs, and demi-wolves are clept
Should be presented at our tent to us.
Should be without regard. What's done is done.
Should ravish doters with a false aspect;
Show'd like a rebel's whore. But all's too weak;
Since all the power thereof it doth apply
Since that the truest issue of thy throne
Since you can cog, I'll play no more with you.
Sir Nathaniel, as concerning some entertainment of time, some
Sir, your pennyworth is good, an your goose be fat.
Sirrah, a word with you. Attend those men
Sirrah, come on.
Sits in a foggy cloud and stays for me.                Exit.
Sleep shall neither night nor day
Sleep that knits up the ravel'd sleave of care,
Sliver'd in the moon's eclipse,
Small have continual plodders ever won,
Smells wooingly here. No jutty, frieze,
So all hail, Macbeth and Banquo!
So all men do -from hence to the palace gate
So brainsickly of things. Go, get some water
So clear in his great office, that his virtues
So from that spring whence comfort seem'd to come
So humbly take my leave.
So much I hate a breaking cause to be
So much, dear liege, I have already sworn,
So pertaunt-like would I o'ersway his state
So poorly in your thoughts.
So runs against all reason.
So shall Berowne take me for Rosaline.
So shall we stay, mocking intended game,
So sweet and voluble is his discourse.
So they
So to the laws at large I write my name;        [Subscribes]
So under fortune, which you thought had been
So weary with disasters, tugg'd with fortune,
So were their daggers, which unwiped we found
So wither'd and so wild in their attire,
So you, to study now it is too late,
So, ere you find where light in darkness lies,
So, prithee, go with me.                             Exeunt.
So, were there a patch set on learning, to see him in a school.
Sola, sola!                                     Exit COSTARD
Sole imperator, and great general
Some carry-tale, some please-man, some slight zany,
Some entertainment for them in their tents.
Some fair excuse.
Some men must love my lady, and some Joan.              Exit
Some mumble-news, some trencher-knight, some Dick,
Some obscure precedence that hath tofore been sain.
Some say a sore; but not a sore till now made sore with shooting.
Some say he's mad; others, that lesser hate him,
Some thousand verses of a faithful lover;
Some tricks, some quillets, how to cheat the devil!
Something wicked this way comes.
Soundly invite him- his two chamberlains
Speak then to me, who neither beg nor fear
Spiteful and wrathful, who, as others do,
Stand aside, good bearer. Boyet, you can carve.
Stand ay accursed in the calendar!
Stand not upon the order of your going,
Stands Macbeth thus amazedly?
Stands in attainder of eternal shame.
Stands not within the prospect of belief,
Steep'd in the colors of their trade, their daggers
Stepp'd in so far that, should I wade no more,
Stick deep, and in his royalty of nature
Sticks deeper, grows with more pernicious root
Still a-repairing, ever out of frame,
Still and contemplative in living art.
Still climbing trees in the Hesperides?
Still to return your own.
Stones have been known to move and trees to speak;
Stop up the access and passage to remorse,
Strange images of death. As thick as hail
Strange things I have in head that will to hand,
Striding the blast, or heaven's cherubin horsed
Strike heaven on the face, that it resounds
Strong both against the deed; then, as his host,
Stuck in my throat.
Study his bias leaves, and makes his book thine eyes,
Study is like the heaven's glorious sun,
Study knows that which yet it doth not know.
Study me how to please the eye indeed,
Study to break it, and not break my troth.
Submissive fall his princely feet before,
Subscribe to your deep oaths, and keep it too.
Subtle as Sphinx; as sweet and musical
Such I account thy love. Art thou afeard
Such as the shortness of the time can shape;
Such fiery numbers as the prompting eyes
Such sanctity hath heaven given his hand,
Sudden, malicious, smacking of every sin
Suggested us to make. Therefore, ladies,
Suggestions are to other as to me;
Suspicion of the deed.
Swear me to this, and I will ne'er say no.
Sweet leaves, shade folly. Who is he comes here?
Swelter'd venom sleeping got,
Sweno, the Norways' king, craves composition;
Taffeta phrases, silken terms precise,
Take all and wean it; it may prove an ox.
Take any shape but that, and my firm nerves
Take that for your fair lady.
Takes from his high respect. Thither Macduff
Teaches such beauty as a woman's eye?
Tell him the daughter of the King of France,
Ten thousand dollars to our general use.
Th' allusion holds in the exchange.
Th' anointed sovereign of sighs and groans,
Th' endeavour of this present breath may buy
Than Aquitaine so gelded as it is.
Than Aquitaine, a dowry for a queen.
Than are the tender horns of cockled snails:
Than by destruction dwell in doubtful joy.
Than for that angel knowledge you can say,
Than is his father's, must embrace the fate
Than on the torture of the mind to lie
Than pity for mischance!
Than seek a dispensation for his oath,
Than such a murther is.
Than such an one to reign.
Than summer-seeming lust, and it hath been
Than those that walk and wot not what they are.
Than whom no mortal so magnificent!
Than wish a snow in May's new-fangled shows;
Than wishest should be undone." Hie thee hither,
Than would make up his message.
Than you much willing to be counted wise
That Christendom gives out.
That Cupid will impose for my neglect
That I did kill them.
That I may pour my spirits in thine ear,
That I may swear beauty doth beauty lack,
That I may tell pale-hearted fear it lies,
That I require a clearness); and with him-
That I to your assistance do make love,
That I would set my life on any chance,
That aged ears play truant at his tales,
That all eyes saw his eyes enchanted with gazes.
That are recorded in this schedule here.
That are vow-fellows with this virtuous duke?
That are within the note of expectation
That bites the first-born infants of the spring.
That by the help of these, with Him above
That chambers will be safe.
That charge their breath against us? Say, scout, say.
That clogs me with this answer."
That could be found.
That croaks the fatal entrance of Duncan
That darkness does the face of earth entomb,
That death and nature do contend about them,
That did oppose my will. Better Macbeth
That did the like for Fleance. If thou didst it,
That ever turn'd their- backs- to mortal views!
That ever yet they heard.
That every minute of his being thrusts
That every one her own hath garnished
That fears a painted devil. If he do bleed,
That give a name to every fixed star
That had a heart to love, and in that heart
That has a name. But there's no bottom, none,
That hast no less deserved, nor must be known
That hath a mint of phrases in his brain;
That he seems rapt withal. To me you speak not.
That he should be my fool, and I his fate.
That he was fain to seal on Cupid's name.
That he would wed me, or else die my lover.
That hid the worse and show'd the better face.
That his own hand may strike his honour down
That honour which shall bate his scythe's keen edge,
That in love's grief desir'st society;
That in this spleen ridiculous appears,
That is not blinded by her majesty?
That is not often vouch'd, while 'tis amaking,
That is, to live and study here three years.
That it was he in the times past which held you
That keep her from her rest.
That kiss'd his hand away in courtesy;
That lie within the mercy of your wit.
That look not like the inhabitants o' the earth,
That look'd upon't.
That made you break this enterprise to me?
That man may question? You seem to understand me,
That memory, the warder of the brain,
That more for praise than purpose meant to kill.
That most may claim this argument for ours?
That my keen knife see not the wound it makes
That no compunctious visitings of nature
That oft in field, with targe and shield, did make my foe to
That put Armado's page out of his part!
That rises like the issue of a king,
That same Berowne I'll torture ere I go.
That seems to speak things strange.
That shake us nightly. Better be with the dead,
That shall express my true love's fasting pain.
That should applaud again. Pull't off, I say.
That show, contain, and nourish, all the world,
That singes heaven's praise with such an earthly tongue.'
That smiles his cheek in years and knows the trick
That some plain man recount their purposes.
That speak him full of grace.
That sport best pleases that doth least know how;
That stay his cure. Their malady convinces
That such a hideous trumpet calls to parley
That suffer in exposure, let us meet
That summons thee to heaven, or to hell.               Exit.
That swiftest wing of recompense is slow
That takes the reason prisoner?
That tears shall drown the wind. I have no spur
That tend on mortal thoughts, unsex me here
That the malevolence of fortune nothing
That the proportion both of thanks and payment
That they did wake each other. I stood and heard them,
That they have done't?
That this great King may kindly say
That trace him in his line. No boasting like a fool;
That twofold balls and treble sceptres carry.
That very frankly he confess'd his treasons,
That violates the smallest branch herein.
That vulture in you to devour so many
That war against your own affections
That we may do it still without accompt.
That we must stand and play the murderer in?
That we, like savages, may worship it.
That well by heart hath conn'd his embassage.
That were most precious to me. Did heaven look on,
That were the slaves of drink and thralls of sleep?
That which cries, "Thus thou must do, if thou have it;
That which long process could not arbitrate.
That which you are, my thoughts cannot transpose.
That will betime, and may by us be fitted.
That will not be deep-search'd with saucy looks;
That will with due decision make us know
That would be howl'd out in the desert air,
That would make good of bad and friends of foes!
That wouldst thou holily; wouldst not play false,
That writes them all alike; and so of men.
That you are so.
That you can let this go? Are you so gospel'd,
That you do lie so late?
That you stand forfeit, being those that sue?
That, by and by, disguis'd they will be here.
That, had he Duncan's sons under his key-
That, like a rude and savage man of Inde
That, when he plays at tables, chides the dice
That, when the brains were out, the man would die,
That, when they shall be open'd, black Macbeth
The French king's daughter, with yourself to speak-
The King and his companions; warily
The King was weeping-ripe for a good word.
The Lord's anointed temple and stole thence
The Prince of Cumberland; which honor must
The Princess comes to hunt here in the park,
The Thane of Cawdor, began a dismal conflict,
The air is delicate.
The arm'd rhinoceros, or the Hyrcan tiger;
The armipotent Mars, of lances the almighty,
The baby of a girl. Hence, horrible shadow!
The boy replied 'An angel is not evil;
The castle of Macduff I will surprise,
The cestern of my lust, and my desire
The chain were longer and the letter short?
The close contriver of all harms,
The cloudy messenger turns me his back,
The curtain'd sleep; witchcraft celebrates
The death of each day's life, sore labor's bath,
The deep damnation of his taking-off,
The devil damn thee black, thou cream-faced loon!
The devil to his fellow, and delight
The dogs did yell; put el to sore, then sorel jumps from thicket-
The doors are open, and the surfeited grooms
The effect and it! Come to my woman's breasts,
The expedition of my violent love
The eye wink at the hand; yet let that be
The firstlings of my hand. And even now,
The fit is momentary; upon a thought
The fits o' the season. I dare not speak much further;
The flighty purpose never is o'ertook
The fourth turn'd on the toe, and down he fell.
The future in the instant.
The galloping of horse. Who wast came by?
The general cause? Or is it a fee-grief
The great assay of art, but at his touch,
The great doom's image! Malcolm! Banquo!
The greatest is behind. [To Ross and Angus] Thanks for your
The grosser manner of these world's delights
The handle toward my hand? Come, let me clutch thee.
The harvest is your own.
The healing benediction. With this strange virtue
The hearing of my wife with your approach;
The holy suit which fain it would convince,
The housekeeper, the hunter, every one
The hue of dungeons, and the school of night;
The illness should attend it. What thou wouldst highly,
The instruments of darkness tell us truths,
The interim having weigh'd it, let us speak
The ladies did change favours; and then we,
The leaf to read them. Let us toward the King.
The least a death to nature.
The letter is too long by half a mile.
The liberal opposition of our spirits,
The life o' the building.
The love that follows us sometime is our trouble,
The manner of it is, I was taken with the manner.
The means that makes us strangers!
The measure, then, of one is eas'ly told.
The mere despair of surgery, he cures,
The mind I sway by and the heart I bear
The mind shall banquet, though the body pine.
The moment on't; fort must be done tonight
The most diminutive of birds, will fight,
The multiplying villainies of nature
The multitudinous seas incarnadine,
The music plays; vouchsafe some motion to it.
The nearer bloody.
The newest state.
The news of thy success; and when he reads
The night is long that never finds the day.          Exeunt.
The nimble spirits in the arteries,
The numbers of our host, and make discovery
The numbers true, and, were the numb'ring too,
The only soil of his fair virtue's gloss,
The other turns to a mirth-moving jest,
The payment of a hundred thousand crowns;
The pitfall nor the gin.
The poor deer's blood that my heart means no ill.
The power of man, for none of woman born
The preyful Princess pierc'd and prick'd a pretty pleasing
The raven himself is hoarse
The repetition in a woman's ear
The rest will ne'er come in, if he be out.
The sacred storehouse of his predecessors
The sea will ebb and flow, heaven show his face;
The secret'st man of blood. What is the night?
The shape of Love's Tyburn that hangs up simplicity.
The shard-borne beetle with his drowsy hums
The sin of my ingratitude even now
The sinewy vigour of the traveller.
The sleepers of the house? Speak, speak!
The sleepy grooms with blood.
The sovereignty will fall upon Macbeth.
The spring, the head, the fountain of your blood
The stairs, as he treads on them, kiss his feet.
The street should see as she walk'd overhead.
The subject of our watch.
The sudden hand of death close up mine eye!
The sweeter welcome, we will keep ourself
The sword of our slain kings. Yet do not fear;
The table round. [Approaches the door.] There's blood upon thy
The taints and blames I laid upon myself,
The temple-haunting martlet, does approve
The third he caper'd, and cried 'All goes well.'
The title is affeer'd. Fare thee well, lord.
The treason and you go in peace away together.
The unguarded Duncan? What not put upon
The untimely emptying of the happy throne,
The very firstlings of my heart shall be
The victory fell on us.
The virtue of your eye must break my oath.
The water of my land, find her disease
The west yet glimmers with some streaks of day;
The which I hope is not enrolled there;
The wine of life is drawn, and the mere lees
Their candles are all out. Take thee that too.
Their cruel parricide, filling their hearers
Their drenched natures lie as in a death,
Their form confounded makes most form in mirth,
Their hands and faces were all badged with blood;
Their heads to their foundations, though the treasure
Their herald is a pretty knavish page,
Their purpose is to parley, court, and dance;
Their several counsels they unbosom shall
Their shallow shows and prologue vilely penn'd,
Then I'll sit down. Give me some wine, fill full.
Then be thou jocund. Ere the bat hath flown
Then call'd you for the l'envoy.
Then fools you were these women to forswear;
Then homeward every man attach the hand
Then the boy's fat l'envoy, the goose that you bought;
Then the charm is firm and good.
Then when ourselves we see in ladies' eyes,
Then, at the expiration of the year,
Then, forester, my friend, where is the bush
Then, if I have much love, I'll give you some.
Thence to be wrench'd with an unlineal hand,
There hangs a vaporous drop profound;
There is no certain princess that appears;
There stay until the twelve celestial signs
There the grown serpent lies; the worm that's fled
There would be hands uplifted in my right;
There's daggers in men's smiles; the near in blood,
There's half a dozen sweets.
There's no such sport as sport by sport o'erthrown,
There's not a one of them but in his house
There's nothing serious in mortality.
There's the moral. Now the l'envoy.
Therefore I'll darkly end the argument.
Therefore of all hands must we be forsworn.
Therefore this article is made in vain,
Therefore to's seemeth it a needful course,
Therefore, brave conquerors- for so you are
Therefore, change favours; and, when they repair,
Therefore, if you my favour mean to get,
These are complements, these are humours; these betray nice
These earthly godfathers of heaven's lights
These evils thou repeat'st upon thyself
These four will change habits and present the other five.
These lords are visited; you are not free,
These numbers will I tear, and write in prose.
These oaths and laws will prove an idle scorn.
These worms for loving, that art most in love?
They are infected; in their hearts it lies;
They are not yet come back. But I have spoke
They are the books, the arts, the academes,
They are the ground, the books, the academes,
They did not bless us with one happy word.
They do it but in mocking merriment,
They hail'd him father to a line of kings.
They have made themselves, and that their fitness now
They have pitch'd a toil: I am tolling in a pitch- pitch that
They have the plague, and caught it of your eyes.
They must lie there. Go carry them, and smear
They presently amend.
They smack of honor both. Go get him surgeons.
They sparkle still the right Promethean fire;
They stared, and were distracted; no man's life
They were all struck for thee! Naught that I am,
They will digest this harsh indignity.
Thine own life's means! Then 'tis most like
Thing's have been strangely borne. The gracious Duncan
Things at the worst will cease or else climb upward
Things bad begun make strong themselves by ill.
Things that do sound so fair? I' the name of truth,
Think upon what hath chanced, and at more time,
This article, my liege, yourself must break;
This child of fancy, that Armado hight,
This civil war of wits were much better used
This comfort with the like! But I have words
This deed I'll do before this purpose cool.
This diamond he greets your wife withal,
This gallant pins the wenches on his sleeve;
This ignorant present, and I feel now
This is the air-drawn dagger which you said
This is the ape of form, Monsieur the Nice,
This is the door.
This is the flow'r that smiles on every one,
This is the very painting of your fear;
This letter is mistook; it importeth none here.
This night's great business into my dispatch,
This pert Berowne was out of count'nance quite.
This seal'd-up counsel. There's thy guerdon; go.
This senior-junior, giant-dwarf, Dan Cupid;
This side is Hiems, Winter; this Ver, the Spring- the one
This tyrant, whose sole name blisters our tongues,
This will I send; and something else more plain
This wimpled, whining, purblind, wayward boy,
Those clouds removed, upon our watery eyne.
Those he commands move only in command,
Those heavenly eyes that look into these faults
Those in commission yet return'd?
Those precious motives, those strong knots of love,
Those that we bury back, our monuments
Those thoughts to me were oaks, to thee like osiers bowed.
Thou art the nonpareil.
Thou bid'st me beg; this begging is not strange.
Thou hast harp'd my fear aright. But one word more-
Thou hast no speculation in those eyes
Thou know'st that Banquo and his Fleance lives.
Thou lily-liver'd boy. What soldiers, patch?
Thou makest the triumviry, the corner-cap of society,
Thou marshal'st me the way that I was going,
Thou marvel'st at my words, but hold thee still:
Thou mayst revenge. O slave!          Dies. Fleance escapes.
Thou now requests but moonshine in the water.
Thou other gold-bound brow, is like the first.
Thou play'dst most foully for't; yet it was said
Thou seest the heavens, as troubled with man's act,
Though Argus were her eunuch and her guard.
Though all things foul would wear the brows of grace,
Though bladed corn be lodged and trees blown down,
Though castles topple on their warders' heads,
Though his bark cannot be lost,
Though in your state of honor I am perfect.
Though palaces and pyramids do slope
Though so denied fair harbour in my house.
Though to myself forsworn, to thee I'll faithful prove;
Though you untie the winds and let them fight
Thoughts speculative their unsure hopes relate,
Threaten his bloody stage. By the clock 'tis day,
Three thousand times within this three years' space;
Three-pil'd hyperboles, spruce affectation,
Thrice to thine, and thrice to mine,
Thriftless ambition, that wilt ravin up
Throbs to know one thing: tell me, if your art
Thrust thy sharp wit quite through my ignorance,
Thus did he strangle serpents in his manus.
Thus do go about, about,
Thus purifies itself and turns to grace.
Thus to mine eyes. Now o'er the one half-world
Thus will I save my credit in the shoot:
Thy bones are marrowless, thy blood is cold;
Thy crown does sear mine eyeballs. And thy hair,
Thy eye Jove's lightning bears, thy voice his dreadful thunder,
Thy gory locks at me.
Thy hope ends here!
Thy letters have transported me beyond
Thy personal venture in the rebels' fight,
Thy praises in his kingdom's great defense,
Thy very stones prate of my whereabout,
Thyself and office deftly show!
Till Birnam Forest come to Dunsinane.
Till Birnam Wood remove to Dunsinane
Till he disbursed, at Saint Colme's Inch,
Till he faced the slave,
Till he unseam'd him from the nave to the chaps,
Till painful study shall outwear three years,
Till seven at night; to make society
Till supper time alone. While then, God be with you!
Till that Bellona's bridegroom, lapp'd in proof,
Till this man show'd thee? And what art thou now?
Till thou applaud the deed. Come, seeling night,
Till you return at night. Goes Fleance with you?
Time and the hour runs through the roughest day.
To a lady of France that he call'd Rosaline.
To act in safety. There is none but he
To add the death of you.
To alter favor ever is to fear.
To any lady that subdues a lord.
To appease an angry god.
To be his purveyor; but he rides well,
To be invested.
To be o'erheard and taken napping so.
To be the same in thine own act and valor
To be thus is nothing,
To bed, to bed, to bed.
To break the vow I am engaged in;
To catch the nearest way. Thou wouldst be great;
To check their folly, passion's solemn tears.
To countenance this horror! Ring the bell.       Bell rings.
To crown my thoughts with acts, be it thought and done:
To cry, "Hold, hold!"
To cure this deadly grief.
To dash it like a Christmas comedy.
To dew the sovereign flower and drown the weeds.
To do worse to you were fell cruelty,
To doff their dire distresses.
To enforce the pained impotent to smile.
To every varied object in his glance;
To fast, to study, and to see no woman-
To feel only looking on fairest of fair.
To feeling as to sight? Or art thou but
To find the mind's construction in the face:
To flatter up these powers of mine with rest,
To fright you thus, methinks I am too savage;
To gain the timely inn, and near approaches
To give obedience where 'tis truly owed.
To give thee, from our royal master, thanks;
To grace us with your royal company?
To half a soul and to a notion crazed
To have his title live in Aquitaine;
To have one show worse than the King's and his company.
To have thee crown'd withal.
To hear the men deny't. So that, I say,
To her decrepit, sick, and bedrid father;
To his home before us. Fair and noble hostess,
To kill their gracious father? Damned fact!
To know his pleasure; and in that behalf,
To know it further. Fears and scruples shake us.
To know the thing I am forbid to know,
To lead you to our court; vouchsafe it then.
To leave no rubs nor botches in the work-
To let you enter his unpeopled house.
To love, to wealth, to pomp, I pine and die,
To loves mistook, and so be mock'd withal
To make a world-without-end bargain in.
To make me hunger more, that I should forge
To make my lady laugh when she's dispos'd,
To make thee full of growing. Noble Banquo,
To make their audit at your Highness' pleasure,
To make theirs ours, and ours none but our own;
To make them kings -the seed of Banquo kings!
To mend it or be rid on't.
To offer up a weak, poor, innocent lamb
To our own lips. He's here in double trust:
To overtake thee. Would thou hadst less deserved,
To parley with the sole inheritor
To plague the inventor. This even-handed justice
To pray for her! Go to; it is a plague
To pray for this good man and for his issue,
To prick the sides of my intent, but only
To prove, by wit, worth in simplicity.
To ratify the work, we may again
To saucy doubts and fears -But Banquo's safe?
To say I have done no harm -What are these faces?
To see a king transformed to a gnat!
To see great Hercules whipping a gig,
To see him kiss his hand, and how most sweetly 'a will swear!
To see him walk before a lady and to bear her fan!
To seek the light of truth; while truth the while
To sell a bargain well is as cunning as fast and loose;
To show an unfelt sorrow is an office
To show his teeth as white as whales-bone;
To some forlorn and naked hermitage,
To take upon you what is yours. You may
To teach a teacher ill beseemeth me.
To the Prince and his book-mates.
To the court of his eye, peeping thorough desire.
To the direction just.
To the succeeding royalty he leaves
To their deaf pillows will discharge their secrets.
To things of sale a seller's praise belongs:
To those that know me. Come, love and health to all;
To those that make us both- fair ladies, you;
To throw away the dearest thing he owed
To thy good truth and honor. Devilish Macbeth
To time and mortal custom. Yet my heart
To trade and traffic with Macbeth
To tread a measure with her on this grass.
To tread a measure with you on this grass.
To wake Northumberland and warlike Siward;
To wear a heart so white. [Knocking within.] I hear knocking
To weed this wormwood from your fruitful brain,
To what I ask you.
To what they were before. My pretty cousin,
To whom came he?- to the beggar. What saw he?- the beggar. Who
To whom he sends, and what's his embassy:
To you they have show'd some truth.
To-morrow shall we visit you again.
To-morrow you shall have a sight of them.
Toad, that under cold stone
Told our intents before; which once disclos'd,
Too much to know is to know nought but fame;
Too nice, and yet too true!
Too terrible for the ear. The time has been,
Toward that shade I might behold addrest
Towards which advance the war.
Treason has done his worst; nor steel, nor poison,
Trim gallants, full of courtship and of state.
Turn'd wild in nature, broke their stalls, flung out,
Tush, none but minstrels like of sonneting.
Twice to your visor and half once to you.
Under a hand accursed!
Under my battlements. Come, you spirits
Under pardon, sir, what are the contents? or rather as
Unfix his earth-bound root? Sweet bodements, good!
Unknown to woman, never was forsworn,
Unless the deed go with it. From this moment
Unmannerly breech'd with gore. Who could refrain,
Unreal mockery, hence!                           Exit Ghost.
Unsafe the while, that we
Unseen, unvisited, much to our shame.
Unspeak mine own detraction; here abjure
Until his ink were temp'red with Love's sighs;
Unto a dismal and a fatal end.
Unto his several mistress; which they'll know
Unto our gentle senses.
Upon a dwarfish thief.
Upon her skinny lips. You should be women,
Upon his death?
Upon my head they placed a fruitless crown
Upon the corner of the moon
Upon the foot of motion.
Upon the next occasion that we meet
Upon the sightless couriers of the air,
Upon their pillows.
Upon this blasted heath you stop our way
Uproar the universal peace, confound
Using those thoughts which should indeed have died
Varying in subjects as the eye doth roll
Vaulting ambition, which o'erleaps itself
Vilely compil'd, profound simplicity.
Visit the speechless sick, and still converse
Vouchsafe to read the purpose of my coming,
Vouchsafe to show the sunshine of your face,
Vouchsafe, bright moon, and these thy stars, to shine,
Wake Duncan with thy knocking! I would thou couldst!
Wanton in fullness, seek to hide themselves
War with mankind.
Was a most sainted king; the queen that bore thee,
Was by a mousing owl hawk'd at and kill'd.
Was feverous and did shake.
Was guilty of it. Farewell, worthy lord.
Was he not born of woman? The spirits that know
Was heavy on me. Thou art so far before,
Was it not yesterday we spoke together?
Was never call'd to bear my part,
Was not that nobly done? Ay, and wisely too,
Was once thought honest. You have loved him well;
Was pitied of Macbeth; marry, he was dead.
Was there with him, if I have heard a truth.
Was this upon myself. What I am truly
Was to be trusted with them.
We are again forsworn in will and error.
We are coming thither. Gracious England hath
We are yet but young in deed.                       Exeunt.
We are your guest tonight.
We bend to that the working of the heart;
We cannot cross the cause why we were born,
We coursed him at the heels and had a purpose
We four indeed confronted were with four
We have had pastimes here, and pleasant game;
We have willing dames enough; there cannot be
We rest your hermits.
We still have judgement here, that we but teach
We will establish our estate upon
We will give up our right in Aquitaine,
We will require her welcome.
We will with some strange pastime solace them,
We would spend it in some words upon that business,
We'ld jump the life to come. But in these cases
We'll hear ourselves again.
We'll not be nice; take hands. We will not dance.
Weary se'nnights nine times nine
Weep our sad bosoms empty.
Welcome, pure wit! Thou part'st a fair fray.
Well fitted in arts, glorious in arms;
Well learned is that tongue that well can thee commend;
Well, I will love, write, sigh, pray, sue, and groan:
Well, lords, to-day we shall have our dispatch;
Were all address'd to meet you, gentle lady,
Were lovers too! Ill, to example ill,
Were not you here but even now, disguis'd?
Were poor and single business to contend
Were the graced person of our Banquo present,
Were, on the quarry of these murther'd deer,
What 'twere to kill a father; so should Fleance.
What cannot you and I perform upon
What did the Russian whisper in your ear?
What did you whisper in your lady's ear?
What good could they pretend?
What hands are here? Ha, they pluck out mine eyes!
What hath quench'd them hath given me fire. Hark! Peace!
What humble suit attends thy answer there.
What is the end of study, let me know.
What is this,
What is your tidings?
What is't you do?
What know, believe; and what I can redress,
What peremptory eagle-sighted eye
What rhubarb, cyme, or what purgative drug
What thou art promised. Yet do I fear thy nature.
What vane? What weathercock? Did you ever hear better?
What was a month old at Cain's birth that's not five weeks old as
What we shall say we have and what we owe.
What will Berowne say when that he shall hear
What you have spoke, it may be so perchance.
What! I love, I sue, I seek a wife-
What, Longaville, and reading! Listen, car.
What, all my pretty chickens and their dam
What, in our house?
What, man! Neer pull your hat upon your brows;
What, will the line stretch out to the crack of doom?
What, will you have me, or your pearl again?
Whatever I shall think.
When I behold- Seyton, I say!- This push
When I shall tread upon the tyrant's head,
When I to feast expressly am forbid;
When I was wont to think no harm all night,
When all that is within him does condemn
When first they put the name of King upon me
When great things labouring perish in their birth.
When it comes so smoothly off, so obscenely, as it were, so fit.
When living light should kiss it?
When mine is blanch'd with fear.
When mistresses from common sense are hid;
When now I think you can behold such sights
When shall you see me write a thing in rhyme?
When shalt thou see thy wholesome days again,
When she did starve the general world beside
When the battle's lost and won.
When the suspicious head of theft is stopp'd.
When therewithal we shall have cause of state
When they are thirsty, fools would fain have drink.
When they did say, "God bless us!"
When those that gave the Thane of Cawdor to me
When tongues speak sweetly, then they name her name,
When we have mark'd with blood those sleepy two
When you durst do it, then you were a man,
When, for fame's sake, for praise, an outward part,
When, lo, to interrupt my purpos'd rest,
When, spite of cormorant devouring Time,
Where all those pleasures live that art would comprehend.
Where fair is not, praise cannot mend the brow.
Where got'st thou that goose look?
Where hadst thou it?
Where he bestows himself?
Where hearing should not latch them.
Where lies thy grief, O, tell me, good Dumain?
Where nothing wants that want itself doth seek.
Where now his knowledge must prove ignorance.
Where our desire is got without content.
Where several worthies make one dignity,
Where sighs and groans and shrieks that rend the air,
Where such as thou mayst find him.
Where that and other specialties are bound;
Where the Norweyan banners flout the sky
Where they most breed and haunt, I have observed
Where zeal strives to content, and the contents
Wherein you dress'd yourself? Hath it slept since?
Whereto the rather shall his day's hard journey
Wherever in your sightless substances
Whether it was his wisdom or his fear.
Whether they live or die.
Which I have heavily borne, there ran a rumor
Which I hope well is not enrolled there.
Which I hope well is not enrolled there;
Which can interpret farther; only I say
Which do but what they should, by doing everything
Which each to other hath so strongly sworn.
Which else should free have wrought.
Which fate and metaphysical aid doth seem
Which gives the stern'st good night. He is about it:
Which he deserves to lose. Whether he was combined
Which his fair tongue, conceit's expositor,
Which in his death were perfect.
Which is to me some praise that I thy parts admire.
Which is too nigh your person. Heaven preserve you!
Which keeps me pale! Light thickens, and the crow
Which might appal the devil.
Which must be acted ere they may be scann'd.
Which ne'er shook hands, nor bade farewell to him,
Which now suits with it. Whiles I threat, he lives;
Which often, since my here-remain in England,
Which outwardly ye show? My noble partner
Which parti-coated presence of loose love
Which shall possess them with the heaviest sound
Which shall to all our nights and days to come
Which shallow laughing hearers give to fools.
Which should be thine or his. Silenced with that,
Which shows me many more; and some I see
Which smoked with bloody execution,
Which steals itself when there's no mercy left.
Which still hath been both grave and prosperous
Which still we thank as love. Herein I teach you
Which the eye fears, when it is done, to see.          Exit.
Which the false man does easy. I'll to England.
Which the poor heart would fain deny and dare not.
Which thou dost glare with.
Which thou esteem'st the ornament of life
Which was not so before. There's no such thing:
Which was to my belief witness'd the rather,
Which we much rather had depart withal,
Which we of taste and feeling are- for those parts that do
Which weighs upon the heart?
Which would be worn now in their newest gloss,
Which you on all estates will execute
Which, not to anger bent, is music and sweet fire.
Which, with pain purchas'd, doth inherit pain,
While it doth study to have what it would,
While you perform your antic round,
Whiles I stood rapt in the wonder of it, came missives from the
Whiles night's black agents to their preys do rouse.
Whispers the o'erfraught heart, and bids it break.
Whither indeed, before thy here-approach,
Who I myself struck down. And thence it is
Who are the rest?
Who are the votaries, my loving lords,
Who can impress the forest, bid the tree
Who cannot want the thought, how monstrous
Who chafes, who frets, or where conspirers are.
Who comes here?
Who dares do more is none.
Who dazzling so, that eye shall be his heed,
Who gave thee this letter?
Who lies i' the second chamber?
Who like a good and hardy soldier fought
Who may I rather challenge for unkindness
Who sent it? and what is it?
Who should against his murtherer shut the door,
Who wear our health but sickly in his life,
Who wrought with them, and all things else that might
Who's there?
Who's there? Faith, here's an English tailor come hither, for
Who, almost dead for breath, had scarcely more
Who, tend'ring their own worth from where they were glass'd,
Whoever knocks!
Whole as the marble, founded as the rock,
Whom the vile blows and buffets of the world
Whom we, to gain our peace, have sent to peace,
Whom, you may say, if't please you, Fleance kill'd,
Whose absence is no less material to me
Whose being I do fear; and under him
Whose care is gone before to bid us welcome.
Whose club kill'd Cerberus, that three-headed canus;
Whose edge hath power to cut, whose will still wills
Whose execution takes your enemy off,
Whose hearts are absent too.
Whose heavy hand hath bow'd you to the grave
Whose horrid image doth unfix my hair
Whose howl's his watch, thus with his stealthy pace,
Whose influence is begot of that loose grace
Whose loves I may not drop, but wail his fall
Why did you bring these daggers from the place?
Why do you make such faces? When all's done,
Why do you show me this? A fourth! Start, eyes!
Why hath it given me earnest of success,
Why in that rawness left you wife and child,
Why should I joy in any abortive birth?
Why sinks that cauldron, and what noise is this?
Why, by the verities on thee made good,
Why, so, being gone,
Why, universal plodding poisons up
Why, what care I? If thou canst nod, speak too.
Will I with wine and wassail so convince
Will all great Neptune's ocean wash this blood
Will cheer me ever or disseat me now.
Will come to know his destiny.
Will hear your idle scorns, continue then,
Will plead like angels trumpet-tongued against
Will praise a hand, a foot, a face, an eye,
Will seem as pure as snow, and the poor state
Will these turtles be gone?
Will they not, think you, hang themselves to-night?
Will you give horns, chaste lady? Do not so.
Win us with honest trifles, to betray's
Wiped the black scruples, reconciled my thoughts
Wise things seem foolish and rich things but poor.
Witch's mummy, maw and gulf
With Tarquin's ravishing strides, towards his design
With a new Gorgon. Do not bid me speak;
With a refined traveller of Spain,
With all the fierce endeavour of your wit,
With all these living in philosophy.
With an untitled tyrant bloody-scepter'd,
With barefaced power sweep him from my sight
With eyes best seeing, heaven's fiery eye,
With furbish'd arms and new supplies of men,
With groaning wretches; and your task shall be,
With hidden help and vantage, or that with both
With his surcease, success; that but this blow
With men like you, men of inconstancy.
With most admired disorder.
With my confineless harms.
With one that saw him die, who did report
With other graces weigh'd.
With ourselves.
With strange invention. But of that tomorrow,
With such a zealous laughter, so profound,
With such bedecking ornaments of praise?
With such prophetic greeting? Speak, I charge you.
With that all laugh'd, and clapp'd him on the shoulder,
With that they all did tumble on the ground,
With them they think on? Things without all remedy
With things forgotten. Kind gentlemen, your pains
With those of Norway, or did line the rebel
With threefold love I wish you all these three.
With twenty mortal murthers on their crowns,
With twenty trenched gashes on his head,
With two pitch balls stuck in her face for eyes;
With visages display'd to talk and greet.
With wit enough for thee.
Within my sword's length set him; if he 'scape,
Within the belt of rule.
Within the limit of becoming mirth,
Within the volume of which time I have seen
Without leave-taking? I pray you,
Without my stir.
Without our special wonder? You make me strange
Without the beauty of a woman's face?
Without the which I am not to be won,
Woo contrary, deceiv'd by these removes.
Wool of bat and tongue of dog,
Words to the heat of deeds too cold breath gives.
Worthy to be a rebel, for to that
Worthy's thumb; he is not so big as the end of his club.
Would create soldiers, make our women fight,
Would from my forehead wipe a perjur'd note;
Would have inform'd for preparation.
Would he were here! To all and him we thirst,
Would let her out in saucers. Sweet misprision!
Would murther as it fell.
Would scour these English hence? Hearst thou of them?
Would to the bleeding and the grim alarm
Wounds like a leaden sword.
Wreck'd as homeward he did come.                Drum within.
Writ o' both sides the leaf, margent and all,
Write 'Lord have mercy on us' on those three;
Yet confident I'll keep what I have swore,
Yet fear not thou, but speak audaciously.'
Yet grace must still look so.
Yet it shall be tempest-toss'd.
Yet, since love's argument was first on foot,
Yet, when we can entreat an hour to serve,
You are attaint with faults and perjury;
You are not ignorant all-telling fame
You cannot beg us, sir, I can assure you, sir; we know what we
You chide at him, offending twice as much:
You do not give the cheer. The feast is sold
You do not love Maria! Longaville
You do unbend your noble strength, to think
You found his mote; the King your mote did see;
You gave me this; but take it, sir, again.
You greet with present grace and great prediction
You have in that forsworn the use of eyes,
You leer upon me, do you? There's an eye
You look but on a stool.
You may deserve of him through me, and wisdom
You may look pale, but I should blush, I know,
You may not come, fair Princess, within my gates;
You owe this strange intelligence, or why
You put our page out. Go, you are allow'd;
You shall offend him and extend his passion.
You shall this twelvemonth term from day to day
You that way: we this way.                            Exeunt
You three, Berowne, Dumain, and Longaville,
You wait on nature's mischief! Come, thick night,
You were best call it 'daughter-beamed eyes.'
You will do aught- this shall you do for me:
You'll not be perjur'd; 'tis a hateful thing;
Young blood doth not obey an old decree.
Young fry of treachery!
Your Majesty loads our house. For those of old,
Your charms and everything beside.
Your eyes do make no coaches; in your tears
Your face, my Thane, is as a book where men
Your favors nor your hate.
Your favours, the ambassadors of love;
Your hand, your tongue; look like the innocent flower,
Your light grows dark by losing of your eyes.
Your matrons, and your maids could not fill up
Your noble friends do lack you.
Your oath I will not trust; but go with speed
Your oath once broke, you force not to forswear.
Your oaths are pass'd; and now subscribe your names,
Your own good thoughts excuse me, and farewell.
Your patience so predominant in your nature,
Your vessels and your spells provide,
Your wit makes wise things foolish; when we greet,
Yourself, held precious in the world's esteem,
[Aside to Banquo] Do you not hope your children shall be kings,
[Aside.] This supernatural soliciting
[Knocking within.] Knock, knock! Who's there, in th' other
[Reads] 'Item. If any man be seen to talk with a woman within
[Sir Nathaniel retires] There, an't shall please you, a foolish
[To DULL] Sir, I do invite you too; you shall not say me nay:
[To Dumain] And Jove for your love would infringe an oath.
[To LONGAVILLE] You would for paradise break faith and troth;
[To ROSALINE] Here, sweet, put up this; 'twill be thine another
a buck of the first head.
a fairer name than French crown. I will never buy and sell out of
a farmer that hanged himself on th' expectation of plenty. Come
a good conscience.
a quick venue of wit- snip, snap, quick and home. It rejoiceth my
a remuneration?
a soldier to love, so am I in love with a base wench. If drawing
afeard? What need we fear who knows it, when none can call our
afterwards seal it, and again return to bed; yet all this while
again; and till then, sit thee down, sorrow.
agitation, besides her walking and other actual performances,
all professions, that go the primrose way to the everlasting
amounts to.
an hour.
and afeard to speak! Run away for shame, Alisander.
and farewell."
and most prepost'rous event that draweth from my snow-white pen
and overcame. He came, one; saw, two; overcame, three. Who came?-
and so forth. Ah, good old Mantuan! I may speak of thee as
and taken following her into the park; which, put together, is in
and, sweet my child, let them be men of good repute and carriage.
another man, and therefore I can be quiet.
ape his keeper, the tired horse his rider. But, damosella virgin,
appertaining to thy young days, which we may nominate tender.
apprehended with the aforesaid swain- I keep her as a vessel of
are Worthies a-coming will speak their mind in some other sort.
arms again.
as Queen, Lennox, Ross, Lords, Ladies, and Attendants.
as it were, in via, in way, of explication; facere, as it were,
as it were, too peregrinate, as I may call it.
ass.
assistance, the King's command, and this most gallant,
assure ye, very good friend. For what is inward between us, let
away the performance. Therefore much drink may be said to be an
backward with the horn on his head?
barbarous. Do you not educate youth at the charge-house on the
beds.
been sharp and sententious; pleasant without scurrility, witty
before, these weird sisters saluted me and referred me to the
beggar's. The catastrophe is a nuptial; on whose side?- the
benefit of sleep and do the effects of watching! In this slumbery
beseech you read it.
bestow on me the sense of hearing.
bonfire. [Knocking within.] Anon, anon! I pray you, remember the
both the scales against either scale, who committed treason
bowl.
breaking-out of mirth, as it were, I have acquainted you withal,
breath as will utter a brace of words.
bring her to trial. Thine, in all compliments of devoted and
brow.
but let that pass. The very all of all is- but, sweet heart, I do
but, for the elegancy, facility, and golden cadence of poesy,
cannot enjoy her.
captivated, bound.
care a pin if the other three were in. Here comes one with a
caret. Ovidius Naso was the man. And why, indeed, 'Naso' but for
carriage, for he carried the town gates on his back like a
closet, take forth paper, fold it, write upon't, read it,
clout.
clown bore it, the fool sent it, and the lady hath it: sweet
clown, sweeter fool, sweetest lady! By the world, I would not
colours.
colours. But to return to the verses: did they please you, Sir
come in, equivocator. [Knocking within.] Knock, knock, knock!
come, come, come, give me your hand.What's done cannot be undone.
coming on of time with 'Hail, King that shalt be!' This have I
concern much. Stay not thy compliment; I forgive thy duty. Adieu.
confirm my speech.
congratulate the Princess at her pavilion, in the posteriors of
congruent, and measurable, for the afternoon. The word is well
cry 'Well done, Hercules; now thou crushest the snake!' That is
cull'd, chose, sweet, and apt, I do assure you, sir, I do assure.
curate and your sweet self are good at such eruptions and sudden
curious-knotted garden. There did I see that low-spirited swain,
dancing horse will tell you.
daughters profit very greatly under you. You are a good member of
day of wrong through the little hole of discretion, and I will
day with a companion of the King's who is intituled, nominated,
defiles. Defile! a foul word. Well, 'set thee down, sorrow!' for
deliver this paper into the royal hand of the King; it may
delivered upon the mellowing of occasion. But the gift is good in
desired employment, Berowne.' Sir Nathaniel, this Berowne is one
devil's name? Faith, here's an equivocator that could swear in
devil-porter it no further. I had thought to have let in some of
did commend the black oppressing humour to the most wholesome
dignity of the whole body.
discourse peremptory, his tongue filed, his eye ambitious, his
discretion. O, an the heavens were so pleased that thou wert but
do it.
dominator of Navarre, my soul's earth's god and body's fost'ring
drink, sir, is a great provoker of three things.
duty pricks me on, have sent to thee, to receive the meed of
easier swallowed than a flap-dragon.
edict and continent canon; which, with, O, with- but with this I
else.
employ him in a letter to my love.
end of our show.
end, canary to it with your feet, humour it with turning up your
enfreedoming thy person; thou wert immured, restrained,
enlargement to the swain, bring him festinately hither; I must
enough for God's sake, yet could not equivocate to heaven. O,
equivocates him in a sleep, and giving him the lie, leaves him.
equivocator with lechery: it makes him, and it mars him; it sets
erewhile.
ever I heard.
example my digression by some mighty precedent. Boy, I do love
exchange for rags?- robes, for tittles?- titles, for thyself?
extemporal god of rhyme, for I am sure I shall turn sonnet.
extravagant spirit, full of forms, figures, shapes, objects,
eye! By this light, but for her eye, I would not love her- yes,
eyelids, sigh a note and sing a note, sometime through the
eyes on thy picture, and my heart on thy every part.
facility.
farborough; but I would see his own person in flesh and blood.
fifth, if I.
finger thus dally with my excrement, with my mustachio; but,
follow.
for a father?
for her two eyes. Well, I do nothing in the world but lie, and
for mine own part, I know not the degree of the Worthy; but I am
for penance.
for the place Where? where, I mean, I did encounter that obscene
for your manager is in love; yea, he loveth. Assist me, some
forbear both.
forward; for we have put thee in countenance.
four.
further, they made themselves air, into which they vanished.
gait majestical and his general behaviour vain, ridiculous, and
gentleman, Judas Maccabaeus; this swain, because of his great
good repute, carriage, bearing, and estimation.'
goose, in this.
grim.
ground Which? which, I mean, I upon; it is ycleped thy park. Then
guerra. I wish you the peace of mind, most royal couplement!
had so much blood in him?
hand of the most beauteous Lady Rosaline.' I will look again on
happiness of life.
have no heads.
have not yet. The roof of this court is too high to be yours, and
have seen, some shall see.
he regards not; his disgrace is to be called boy, but his glory
he took up my legs sometime, yet I made shift to cast him.
hear the dialogue that the two learned men have compiled in
heart-burning heat of duty,
her.
her; and out of heart you love her, being out of heart that you
her; in heart you love her, because your heart is in love with
here my melancholy. Well, she hath one o' my sonnets already; the
him for his lie, and, I think, being too strong for him, though
him on, and it takes him off; it persuades him and disheartens
him with thy bird-bolt under the left pap. In faith, secrets!
him, and hang'd for Pompey that is dead by him.
him; makes him stand to and not stand to; in conclusion,
hogshead.
ideas, apprehensions, motions, revolutions. These are begot in
ignorant of what greatness is promised thee. Lay it to thy heart,
illustrate, and learned gentleman, before the Princess- I say
implore secrecy- that the King would have me present the
in a most fast sleep.
in my rapier as much as thou didst me in carrying gates. I am in
in the duller parts;
in the merriness.
in time! Have napkins enow about you; here you'll sweat fort.
inclination, after his undressed, unpolished, uneducated,
infamy circum circa- a gig of a cuckold's horn.
instant. By heart you love her, because your heart cannot come by
intellect is not replenished; he is only an animal, only sensible
intellect. True wit!
intelligis, domine? to make frantic, lunatic.
invention? Imitari is nothing: so doth the hound his master, the
is cast away. She's quick; the child brags in her belly already;
is to subdue men. Adieu, valour; rust, rapier; be still, drum;
it pass. I do beseech thee, remember thy courtesy. I beseech
it provokes and unprovokes: it provokes the desire, but it takes
it was given me by Costard, and sent me from Don Armado. I
it.
it?
itself, have commiseration on thy heroical vassal. The
juvenal?
king's. No, on both in one, or one in both. I am the king, for so
knight.
languages and stol'n the scraps.
learned by the perfectest report they have more in them than
let me supervise the canzonet. Here are only numbers ratified;
lie in my throat. By heaven, I do love; and it hath taught me to
lieu thereof, impose on thee nothing but this: bear this
life, fast asleep. Observe her; stand close.
lightly rewarded.
limb or joint, shall pass Pompey the Great; the page, Hercules.
loose.
love too. Who was Samson's love, my dear Moth?
love. And how can that be true love which is falsely attempted?
love? I could. Shall I entreat thy love? I will. What shalt thou
loves thee not-
lowliness. Shall I command thy love? I may. Shall I enforce thy
magnanimous and most illustrate king Cophetua set eye upon the
maintained by the Owl, th' other by the Cuckoo. Ver, begin.
man.
manner and form following. Now, sir, for the manner- it is the
manner of a man to speak to a woman. For the form- in some form.
marking of it.
marvel thy master hath not eaten thee for a word, for thou are
marvellous good neighbour, faith, and a very good bowler; but for
me, boy; what great men have been in love?
melancholy?
might rightly say, 'Veni, vidi, vici'; which to annothanize in
mild man; an honest man, look you, and soon dash'd. He is a
mine; where, if, before repast, it shall please you to gratify
minority: his enter and exit shall be strangling a snake; and I
months on her way.
more sweet understanding, a woman. Him I, as my ever-esteemed
mortal knowledge. When I burned in desire to question them
most graze, birds best peck, and men sit down to that nourishment
must fast three days a week. For this damsel, I must keep her at
my bastard, what a joyful father wouldst thou make me! Go to;
my court'- Hath this been proclaimed?
my leave.
my saying pretty?
my sword against the humour of affection would deliver me from
myself to walk. The time When? About the sixth hour; when beasts
neither savouring of poetry, wit, nor invention. I beseech your
never but a month old; and I say, beside, that 'twas a pricket
no instruction; if their daughters be capable, I will put it to
none so fit as to present the Nine Worthies.
north-north-east and by east from the west corner of thy
not for prisoners to be too silent in their words, and therefore
not so long by the head as honorificabilitudinitatibus; thou art
not the bones of the buried; when he breathed, he was a man. But
o' that. You mar all with this starting.
of Arabia will not sweeten this little hand. Oh, oh, oh!
of earth; fire enough for a flint, pearl enough for a swine; 'tis
of note- do you note me?- that most are affected to these.
of that colour, methinks Samson had small reason for it. He
of the votaries with the King; and here he hath framed a letter
of thy master, thou halfpenny purse of wit, thou pigeon-egg of
on's grave.
opinion, and strange without heresy. I did converse this quondam
or called, Don Adriano de Armado.
or pageant, or antic, or firework. Now, understanding that the
orthography, as to speak 'dout' fine, when he should say 'doubt';
our recreation.                                       Exeunt
overcame he?- the beggar. The conclusion is victory; on whose
painting; and keep not too long in one tune, but a snip and away.
pale. I tell you yet again, Banquo's buried; he cannot come out
paper; God give him grace to groan!
pardoned.
parents of the foresaid child or pupil, undertake your ben
parishioners; for their sons are well tutor'd by you, and their
pass; for I must tell thee it will please his Grace, by the
passion to say wherewith-'
patron'-
pauca verba. Away; the gentles are at their game, and we will to
perhaps a hackney. But have you forgot your love?
pernicious and indubitate beggar Zenelophon; and he it was that
physic of thy health-giving air; and, as I am a gentleman, betook
pierc'd which is the one?
porter.
porter; and he was in love.
power to account? Yet who would have thought the old man to have
praise of the Owl and the Cuckoo? It should have followed in the
pretty; it is well.
protest, the schoolmaster is exceeding fantastical; too too vain,
proved, wit. By the Lord, this love is as mad as Ajax: it kills
punishment, by thy sweet Grace's officer, Antony Dull, a man of
queen's lords.
quiet! What are you? But this place is too cold for hell. I'll
ransom him to any French courtier for a new-devis'd curtsy. I
reck'ning, sir.
religiously; and, as a certain father saith-
replication, or rather, ostentare, to show, as it were, his
rest of the court can possibly devise.'
rewarding my dependents. Moth, follow.                  Exit
rhyme, and to be melancholy; and here is part of my rhyme, and
right myself like a soldier.                 Exeunt WORTHIES
right!
rise from her bed, throw her nightgown upon her, unlock her
roast your goose. [Knocking within.] Knock, knock! Never at
salve for l'envoy, and the word 'l'envoy' for a salve?
salve, sir, but a plantain!
satisfy my remembrance the more strongly.
say, but to parfect one man in one poor man, Pompion the Great,
scratch'd; 'twill serve.
seen with her in the manor-house, sitting with her upon the form,
serious designs, and of great import indeed, too- but let that
sheep; it kills me- I a sheep. Well proved again o' my side. I
shirt.
show in the posterior of this day, to be rend'red by our
show whereuntil it doth amount. For mine own part, I am, as they
side?- the king's. The captive is enrich'd; on whose side?- the
significant [giving a letter] to the country maid Jaquenetta;
since when, I'll be sworn, he wore none but a dishclout of
since; but I think now 'tis not to be found; or if it were, it
sir, in print. Gardon- remuneration!                    Exit
sir.
slash; I'll do it by the sword. I bepray you, let me borrow my
smelling out the odoriferous flowers of fancy, the jerks of
smiling. O, pardon me, my stars! Doth the inconsiderate take
so they say the fool said, and so say I, and I am the fool. Well
society.
some certain special honours it pleaseth his greatness to impart
spit, or your hands in your pocket, like a man after the old
spleen; the heaving of my lungs provokes me to ridiculous
stands the comparison; thou the beggar, for so witnesseth thy
stealing out of a French hose. Come in, tailor; here you may
stomach.
strength; yet was Solomon so seduced, and he had a very good wit.
studied ere ye'll thrice wink; and how easy it is to put 'years'
such insociable and point-devise companions; such rackers of
sun-beamed eyes-
sup a flea.
surely affected her for her wit.
surveyest, or seest. But to the place Where? It standeth
swearers enow to beat the honest men and hang up them.
sweet heart, let that pass. By the world, I recount no fable:
sweet love three year. But, most esteemed greatness, will you
talent.
that base minnow of thy mirth,'
that country girl that I took in the park with the rational hind
that the Princess kill'd.
that thou mightst not lose the dues of rejoicing, by being
the Princess kill'd a pricket.
the boy:
the commonwealth.
the conqueror! You will be scrap'd out of the painted cloth for
the death of the deer? And, to humour the ignorant, call the deer
the ebon-coloured ink which here thou viewest, beholdest,
the exchange.
the face of terra, the soil, the land, the earth.
the intellect of the letter, for the nomination of the party
the king. Why did he come?- to see. Why did he see?-to overcome.
the park; she is allow'd for the day-woman. Fare you well.
the pomewater, who now hangeth like a jewel in the ear of caelo,
the reprobate thought of it, I would take Desire prisoner, and
the sky, the welkin, the heaven; and anon falleth like a crab on
the staple of his argument. I abhor such fanatical phantasimes,
the table with a grace, I will, on my privilege I have with the
the term of three years, he shall endure such public shame as the
the traveller doth of Venice:
the ventricle of memory, nourish'd in the womb of pia mater, and
the vulgar,- O base and obscure vulgar!- videlicet, He came, saw,
the way of progression, hath miscarried. Trip and go, my sweet;
the way to make an offence gracious, though few have the grace to
thee, apparel thy head. And among other importunate and most
them on!
them; but, vir sapit qui pauca loquitur. A soul feminine saluteth
there is remuneration, for the best ward of mine honour is
think scorn to sigh; methinks I should out-swear Cupid. Comfort
this day; which the rude multitude call the afternoon.
this letter will tell you more.
this word.
this. Your lion, that holds his poleaxe sitting on a close-stool,
this?
those in whom it is acute, and I am thankful for it.
thou hast it ad dunghill, at the fingers' ends, as they say.
thought good to deliver thee, my dearest partner of greatness,
thrasonical. He is too picked, too spruce, too affected, too odd,
throat, as if you swallowed love with singing love, sometime
through the nose, as if you snuff'd up love by smelling love,
thy law's fury; and shall, at the least of thy sweet notice,
time to do't. Hell is murky. Fie, my lord, fie! A soldier, and
time, which we may name tough.
to Armado, a soldier, a man of travel, that hath seen the world;
to a sequent of the stranger queen's which accidentally, or by
to buy ginger-bread. Hold, there is the very remuneration I had
to stand for him.
to the end to crave your assistance.
to the word 'three,' and study three years in two words, the
tongue.' Who devis'd this penalty?
too much odds for a Spaniard's rapier. The first and second cause
too too vain; but we will put it, as they say, to fortuna de la
top of the mountain?
true that thou art beauteous; truth itself that thou art lovely.
true, but so.
truth in your report. When was it she last walked?
unconfirmed fashion, to insert again my haud credo for a deer.
unpruned, untrained, or rather unlettered, or ratherest
us.
varied, like a scholar at the least; but, sir, I assure ye it was
venuto; where I will prove those verses to be very unlearned,
very slow-gaited. But I go.
votary: I have vow'd to Jaquenetta to hold the plough for her
was this directed to you?
washing her hands. I have known her continue in this a quarter of
welcome the sour cup of prosperity! Affliction may one day smile
welcome to the wide fields too base to be mine.
wench.
wenches, that would be betrayed without these; and make them men
were a good sign that I should quickly have a new father.
what, at any time, have you heard her say?
when King Pepin of France was a little boy, as touching the hit
which have walked in their sleep who have died holily in their
which is baser, guided by her foot, which is basest, doth tread.
which is called supper. So much for the time When. Now for the
while.
will be given to Ajax. He will be the ninth Worthy. A conqueror
will have an apology for that purpose.
will not love; if I do, hang me. I' faith, I will not. O, but her
will not serve my turn; the passado he respects not, the duello
will these hands neer be clean? No more o' that, my lord, no more
with Jaquenetta, and Jaquenetta is a true girl; and therefore
with bran and water.
with your hat penthouse-like o'er the shop of your eyes, with
without affection, audacious without impudency, learned without
word.
world, sometime to lean upon my poor shoulder, and with his royal
would call 'abbominable.' It insinuateth me of insanie: ne
would neither serve for the writing nor the tune.
writing to the person written unto: 'Your Ladyship's in all
you a remuneration.' Why, it carries it. Remuneration! Why, it is
you must suffer him to take no delight nor no penance; but 'a
you to abrogate scurrility.
your arms cross'd on your thin-belly doublet, like a rabbit on a
your reputation.
DUMAIN. The Great.
MALCOLM. O, by whom?
1. Serv. Hold your hand, my lord!
1. Serv. If you did wear a beard upon your chin,
1. Serv. Nay, then, come on, and take the chance of anger.
1. Serv. O, I am slain! My lord, you have one eye left
2. Serv. I'll never care what wickedness I do,
2. Serv. Let's follow the old Earl, and get the bedlam
3. Serv. Go thou. I'll fetch some flax and whites of eggs
3. Serv. If she live long,
A FORESTER
A Porter
A Scottish Doctor
A Sergeant
ALL. A deed without a name.
ALL. Come, high or low;
ALL. Double, double, toil and trouble;
ALL. Double, double, toil and trouble;
ALL. Double, double, toil and trouble;
ALL. Listen, but speak not to't.
ALL. Paddock calls. Anon!
ALL. Seek to know no more.
ALL. Show his eyes, and grieve his heart;
ALL. So all.
ALL. The weird sisters, hand in hand,
ALL. Well contented.
ANGUS, nobleman of Scotland
ANGUS. Near Birnam Wood
ANGUS. Now does he feel
ANGUS. We are sent
ANGUS. Who was the Thane lives yet,
ARMADO.  The fox, the ape, and the humble-bee,
ARMADO.  Until the goose came out of door,
ARMADO. A most acute juvenal; volable and free of grace!
ARMADO. A most fine figure!
ARMADO. Almost I had.
ARMADO. And so, farewell.
ARMADO. And therefore apt, because quick.
ARMADO. Anointed, I implore so much expense of thy royal sweet
ARMADO. Arts-man, preambulate; we will be singuled from the
ARMADO. At your sweet pleasure, for the mountain.
ARMADO. Boy, what sign is it when a man of great spirit grows
ARMADO. But O- but O-
ARMADO. But tell me: how was there a costard broken in a shin?
ARMADO. By heart and in heart, boy.
ARMADO. By my sweet soul, I mean setting thee at liberty,
ARMADO. By the North Pole, I do challenge thee.
ARMADO. By virtue thou enforcest laughter; thy silly thought, my
ARMADO. Call'st thou my love 'hobby-horse'?
ARMADO. Come hither, come hither. How did this argument begin?
ARMADO. Define, define, well-educated infant.
ARMADO. Dost thou infamonize me among potentates? Thou shalt die.
ARMADO. Fetch hither the swain; he must carry me a letter.
ARMADO. For mine own part, I breathe free breath. I have seen the
ARMADO. For the rest of the Worthies?
ARMADO. Gentlemen and soldiers, pardon me; I will not combat in my
ARMADO. Green, indeed, is the colour of lovers; but to have a love
ARMADO. Ha, ha, what sayest thou?
ARMADO. Holla! approach.
ARMADO. How canst thou part sadness and melancholy, my tender
ARMADO. How hast thou purchased this experience?
ARMADO. How meanest thou? Brawling in French?
ARMADO. I am all these three.
ARMADO. I am ill at reck'ning; it fitteth the spirit of a tapster.
ARMADO. I confess both; they are both the varnish of a complete
ARMADO. I do adore thy sweet Grace's slipper.
ARMADO. I do affect the very ground, which is base, where her shoe,
ARMADO. I do betray myself with blushing. Maid!
ARMADO. I do say thou art quick in answers; thou heat'st my blood.
ARMADO. I give thee thy liberty, set thee from durance; and, in
ARMADO. I have promised to study three years with the Duke.
ARMADO. I know where it is situate.
ARMADO. I love not to be cross'd.
ARMADO. I love thee.
ARMADO. I say lead is slow.
ARMADO. I say, sing.
ARMADO. I spoke it, tender juvenal, as a congruent epitheton
ARMADO. I will have that subject newly writ o'er, that I may
ARMADO. I will hereupon confess I am in love. And as it is base for
ARMADO. I will kiss thy royal finger, and take leave. I am a
ARMADO. I will tell thee wonders.
ARMADO. I will visit thee at the lodge.
ARMADO. Impossible.
ARMADO. In thy condign praise.
ARMADO. Is that one of the four complexions?
ARMADO. Is there not a ballad, boy, of the King and the Beggar?
ARMADO. It doth amount to one more than two.
ARMADO. Men of peace, well encount'red.
ARMADO. Most sweet Hercules! More authority, dear boy, name more;
ARMADO. My love is most immaculate white and red.
ARMADO. No, page; it is an epilogue or discourse to make plain
ARMADO. Now, by the salt wave of the Mediterraneum, a sweet touch,
ARMADO. O well-knit Samson! strong-jointed Samson! I do excel thee
ARMADO. Of what complexion?
ARMADO. Pardon, sir; error: he is not quantity enough for that
ARMADO. Peace!
ARMADO. Pretty and apt.
ARMADO. Shall I tell you a thing?
ARMADO. Sing, boy; my spirit grows heavy in love.
ARMADO. Sir, it is the King's most sweet pleasure and affection to
ARMADO. Sir, the King is a noble gentleman, and my familiar, I do
ARMADO. Sirrah Costard. I will enfranchise thee.
ARMADO. Some enigma, some riddle; come, thy l'envoy; begin.
ARMADO. Sweet Lord Longaville, rein thy tongue.
ARMADO. Sweet Majesty, vouchsafe me-
ARMADO. Sweet air! Go, tenderness of years, take this key, give
ARMADO. Sweet bloods, I both may and will.
ARMADO. Sweet invocation of a child; most pretty, and pathetical!
ARMADO. Sweet smoke of rhetoric!
ARMADO. Take away this villain; shut him up.
ARMADO. Tell me precisely of what complexion.
ARMADO. That is all one, my fair, sweet, honey monarch; for, I
ARMADO. The armipotent Mars, of lances the almighty,
ARMADO. The meaning, pretty ingenious?
ARMADO. The naked truth of it is: I have no shirt; I go woolward
ARMADO. The sweet war-man is dead and rotten; sweet chucks, beat
ARMADO. The way is but short; away.
ARMADO. The words of Mercury are harsh after the songs of Apollo.
ARMADO. This Hector far surmounted Hannibal-
ARMADO. Thou pretty, because little.
ARMADO. Thou shalt be heavily punished.
ARMADO. True.
ARMADO. Villain, thou shalt fast for thy offences ere thou be
ARMADO. Warble, child; make passionate my sense of hearing.
ARMADO. We will have, if this fadge not, an antic. I beseech you,
ARMADO. We will talk no more of this matter.
ARMADO. What meanest thou?
ARMADO. What wilt thou prove?
ARMADO. Why tough signior? Why tough signior?
ARMADO. Why, sadness is one and the self-same thing, dear imp.
ARMADO. [To HOLOFERNES] Monsieur, are you not lett'red?
ARMADO. [To MOTH] Chirrah!
ARMADO. that an eel is ingenious?
ATTENDANT. They are, my lord, without the palace gate.
Alb. A herald, ho!
Alb. Ask him his purposes, why he appears
Alb. Bear them from hence. Our present business
Alb. But who was this?
Alb. Even so. Cover their faces.
Alb. Fall and cease!
Alb. Gloucester's eyes?
Alb. Gloucester, I live
Alb. Go after her. She's desperate; govern her.
Alb. Great thing of us forgot!
Alb. Half-blooded fellow, yes.
Alb. Haste thee for thy life.                    [Exit Edgar.]
Alb. He is not here.
Alb. He knows not what he says; and vain is it
Alb. I'll overtake you.- Speak.
Alb. If there be more, more woful, hold it in;
Alb. Knows he the wickedness?
Alb. Let's then determine
Alb. Methought thy very gait did prophesy
Alb. Most monstrous!
Alb. O Goneril,
Alb. Our very loving sister, well bemet.
Alb. Produce their bodies, be they alive or dead.
Alb. Run, run, O, run!
Alb. Save him, save him!
Alb. See thyself, devil!
Alb. She is not well. Convey her to my tent.
Alb. Shut your mouth, dame,
Alb. Sir, by your patience,
Alb. Sir, you have show'd to-day your valiant strain,
Alb. Speak, man.
Alb. Stay till I have read the letter.
Alb. Stay yet; hear reason. Edmund, I arrest thee
Alb. That's but a trifle here.
Alb. The gods defend her! Bear him hence awhile.
Alb. The let-alone lies not in your good will.
Alb. The weight of this sad time we must obey,
Alb. This shows you are above,
Alb. Thou art arm'd, Gloucester. Let the trumpet sound.
Alb. Thou changed and self-cover'd thing, for shame!
Alb. Trust to thy single virtue; for thy soldiers,
Alb. We will greet the time.                             Exit.
Alb. What news?
Alb. Where have you hid yourself?
Alb. Where was his son when they did take his eyes?
Alb. Which is that adversary?
Alb. Who dead? Speak, man.
Alb. Why, fare thee well. I will o'erlook thy paper.
Alb. Wisdom and goodness to the vile seem vile;
An English Doctor
An Old Man
BANQUO, Thane of Lochaber, a general in the King's army
BANQUO. All's well.
BANQUO. And she goes down at twelve.
BANQUO. As far, my lord, as will fill up the time
BANQUO. At your kind'st leisure.
BANQUO. Ay, my good lord.
BANQUO. Ay, my good lord. Our time does call upon 's.
BANQUO. Good sir, why do you start, and seem to fear
BANQUO. Hold, take my sword. There's husbandry in heaven,
BANQUO. How far is't call'd to Forres? What are these
BANQUO. How goes the night, boy?
BANQUO. It will be rain tonight.
BANQUO. Let your Highness
BANQUO. Look to the lady.
BANQUO. Look, how our partner's rapt.
BANQUO. My lord, I will not.
BANQUO. New honors come upon him,
BANQUO. O, treachery! Fly, good Fleance, fly, fly, fly!
BANQUO. So I lose none
BANQUO. Thanks, sir, the like to you.
BANQUO. The earth hath bubbles as the water has,
BANQUO. There if I grow,
BANQUO. This guest of summer,
BANQUO. Thou hast it now: King, Cawdor, Glamis, all,
BANQUO. To the selfsame tune and words. Who's here?
BANQUO. Too cruel anywhere.
BANQUO. Very gladly.
BANQUO. Were such things here as we do speak about?
BANQUO. What, can the devil speak true?
BANQUO. What, sir, not yet at rest? The King's abed.
BANQUO. Worthy Macbeth, we stay upon your leisure.
BANQUO. You shall be King.
BANQUO. [Aside to Macbeth.] That, trusted home,
BANQUO. [Within.] Give us a light there, ho!
BEROWNE,    lord attending on the King
BEROWNE. 'All hid, all hid'- an old infant play.
BEROWNE. 'Did they?' quoth you. Who sees the heavenly Rosaline
BEROWNE. 'Tis more than need.
BEROWNE. A dangerous law against gentility.
BEROWNE. A death's face in a ring.
BEROWNE. A fever in your blood? Why, then incision
BEROWNE. A kissing traitor. How art thou prov'd Judas?
BEROWNE. A lemon.
BEROWNE. A right description of our sport, my lord.
BEROWNE. A toy, my liege, a toy! Your Grace needs not fear it.
BEROWNE. A twelvemonth? Well, befall what will befall,
BEROWNE. Advance your standards, and upon them, lords;
BEROWNE. Allons! allons! Sow'd cockle reap'd no corn,
BEROWNE. Amen, so I had mine! Is not that a good word?
BEROWNE. An amber-colour'd raven was well noted.
BEROWNE. An thou wert a lion we would do so.
BEROWNE. And I, forsooth, in love; I, that have been love's whip;
BEROWNE. And send you many lovers!
BEROWNE. And three times thrice is nine.
BEROWNE. And what to me, my love? and what to me?
BEROWNE. Armado is a most illustrious wight,
BEROWNE. Art thou one of the Worthies?
BEROWNE. As we would hear an oracle.
BEROWNE. Ay, and worn in the cap of a tooth-drawer. And now,
BEROWNE. Ay, as some days; but then no sun must shine.
BEROWNE. Ay, if 'a have no more man's blood in his belly than will
BEROWNE. Because thou hast no face.
BEROWNE. By Jove, I always took three threes for nine.
BEROWNE. By earth, she is not, corporal: there you lie.
BEROWNE. By heaven, all dry-beaten with pure scoff!
BEROWNE. By yea and nay, sir, then I swore in jest.
BEROWNE. Come on, then; I will swear to study so,
BEROWNE. Devils soonest tempt, resembling spirits of light.
BEROWNE. Did not I dance with you in Brabant once?
BEROWNE. False: we have given thee faces.
BEROWNE. First, from the park let us conduct them thither;
BEROWNE. Fit in his place and time.
BEROWNE. For the ass to the Jude; give it him- Jud-as, away.
BEROWNE. For the following, sir?
BEROWNE. Go, bid them prepare.
BEROWNE. Greater than Great! Great, great, great Pompey! Pompey the
BEROWNE. Hide thy head, Achilles; here comes Hector in arms.
BEROWNE. Honest plain words best pierce the ear of grief;
BEROWNE. How low soever the matter, I hope in God for high words.
BEROWNE. How much is it?
BEROWNE. I am a fool, and full of poverty.
BEROWNE. I can but say their protestation over;
BEROWNE. I cannot give you less.
BEROWNE. I cannot stay thanksgiving.                [Retiring]
BEROWNE. I could put thee in comfort: not by two that I know;
BEROWNE. I know you did.
BEROWNE. I post from love; good lover, let me go.
BEROWNE. I would you heard it groan.
BEROWNE. I'll lay my head to any good man's hat
BEROWNE. I'll prove her fair, or talk till doomsday here.
BEROWNE. In what manner?
BEROWNE. Is ebony like her? O wood divine!
BEROWNE. Is not nine.
BEROWNE. Is she wedded or no?
BEROWNE. Is this your perfectness? Be gone, you rogue.
BEROWNE. It must be done this afternoon.
BEROWNE. Lady, I will commend you to mine own heart.
BEROWNE. Let me say no, my liege, an if you please:
BEROWNE. Let's see the penalty. [Reads] '-on pain of losing her
BEROWNE. Lo, he is tilting straight! Peace; I have done.
BEROWNE. My eyes are then no eyes, nor I Berowne.
BEROWNE. My good knave Costard, exceedingly well met!
BEROWNE. My hat to a halfpenny, Pompey proves the best Worthy.
BEROWNE. Nay, then will I be gone.
BEROWNE. Nay, then, two treys, an if you grow so nice,
BEROWNE. Necessity will make us all forsworn
BEROWNE. No, my good lord; I have sworn to stay with you;
BEROWNE. Not you by me, but I betrayed to you.
BEROWNE. Nothing but peace and gentle visitation.
BEROWNE. Nothing so sure; and thereby all forsworn.
BEROWNE. Now fair befall your mask!
BEROWNE. Now, God save thy life!
BEROWNE. Now, in thy likeness, one more fool appear!
BEROWNE. O most profane coxcomb!
BEROWNE. O, I am yours, and all that I possess.
BEROWNE. O, if the streets were paved with thine eyes,
BEROWNE. O, rhymes are guards on wanton Cupid's hose:
BEROWNE. Once more I'll mark how love can vary wit.
BEROWNE. Once to behold, rogue.
BEROWNE. One drunkard loves another of the name.
BEROWNE. One word in secret.
BEROWNE. Our states are forfeit; seek not to undo us.
BEROWNE. Our wooing doth not end like an old play:
BEROWNE. Peace; for I will not have to do with you.
BEROWNE. Pompey is moved. More Ates, more Ates! Stir them on! stir
BEROWNE. Pompey the Great!
BEROWNE. Saint George's half-cheek in a brooch.
BEROWNE. See where it comes! Behaviour, what wert thou
BEROWNE. Shot, by heaven! Proceed, sweet Cupid; thou hast thump'd
BEROWNE. Sick at the heart.
BEROWNE. So study evermore is over-shot.
BEROWNE. Something then in rhyme.
BEROWNE. Speak for yourselves; my wit is at an end.
BEROWNE. Stay, slave; I must employ thee.
BEROWNE. Stoop, I say;
BEROWNE. Studies my lady? Mistress, look on me;
BEROWNE. Sweet lord, and why?
BEROWNE. Sweet lords, sweet lovers, O, let us embrace!
BEROWNE. Take away the conqueror, take away Alisander.
BEROWNE. Tell her we measure them by weary steps.
BEROWNE. That you three fools lack'd me fool to make up the mess;
BEROWNE. That's too long for a play.
BEROWNE. The King he is hunting the deer: I am coursing myself.
BEROWNE. The pedant, the braggart, the hedge-priest, the fool, and
BEROWNE. The spring is near, when green geese are a-breeding.
BEROWNE. Their eyes, villain, their eyes.
BEROWNE. There is five in the first show.
BEROWNE. Therefore meet.                 [They converse apart]
BEROWNE. Things hid and barr'd, you mean, from common sense?
BEROWNE. This afternoon.
BEROWNE. This cannot be Hector.
BEROWNE. This fellow pecks up wit as pigeons pease,
BEROWNE. This is he.
BEROWNE. This is not so well as I look'd for, but the best that
BEROWNE. This is the liver-vein, which makes flesh a deity,
BEROWNE. This jest is dry to me. Fair gentle sweet,
BEROWNE. This, fellow. What wouldst?
BEROWNE. Thou grievest my gall.
BEROWNE. Thou knowest not what it is.
BEROWNE. Thus pour the stars down plagues for perjury.
BEROWNE. To hear, or forbear hearing?
BEROWNE. To move wild laughter in the throat of death?
BEROWNE. True, true, we are four.
BEROWNE. WOrthies away; the scene begins to cloud.
BEROWNE. We are shame-proof, my lord, and 'tis some policy
BEROWNE. We number nothing that we spend for you;
BEROWNE. Well followed: Judas was hanged on an elder.
BEROWNE. Well said, old mocker; I must needs be friends with thee.
BEROWNE. Well, say I am; why should proud summer boast
BEROWNE. Well, sir, be it as the style shall give us cause to climb
BEROWNE. What is a remuneration?
BEROWNE. What reason have you for 't?
BEROWNE. What time o' day?
BEROWNE. What's her name in the cap?
BEROWNE. What, are there but three?
BEROWNE. Where? when? what vizard? Why demand you this?
BEROWNE. White-handed mistress, one sweet word with thee.
BEROWNE. Why ask you?
BEROWNE. Why, all delights are vain; but that most vain
BEROWNE. Why, he comes in like a perjure, wearing papers.
BEROWNE. Why, then, three-farthing worth of silk.
BEROWNE. Why, villain, thou must know first.
BEROWNE. Will YOU prick't with your eye?
BEROWNE. Would that do it good?
BEROWNE. Yet I have a trick
BEROWNE. You are welcome, sir; adieu!
BEROWNE. You lie, you are not he.
BEROWNE. You must not be so quick.
BEROWNE. Your mistresses dare never come in rain
BEROWNE. Your nose smells 'no' in this, most tender-smelling
BEROWNE. Your wit 's too hot, it speeds too fast, 'twill tire.
BEROWNE. [ To COSTARD] Ah, you whoreson loggerhead, you were born
BEROWNE. [Descending] Now step I forth to whip hypocrisy,
BEROWNE. [Reads] 'Item. That no woman shall come within a mile of
BOTH MURTHERERS. True, my lord.
BOTH MURTHERERS. We are resolved, my lord.
BOYET,   lord attending on the Princess of France
BOYET.    An I cannot, cannot, cannot,
BOYET. A cittern-head.
BOYET. A light for Monsieur Judas! It grows dark, he may stumble.
BOYET. A mark! O, mark but that mark! A mark, says my lady!
BOYET. A woman sometimes, an you saw her in the light.
BOYET. An if my hand be out, then belike your hand is in.
BOYET. And every jest but a word.
BOYET. And wherefore not ships?
BOYET. And who is your deer?
BOYET. Ay, my continent of beauty.
BOYET. Beauties no richer than rich taffeta.
BOYET. Belonging to whom?
BOYET. But is this Hector?
BOYET. But she herself is hit lower. Have I hit her now?
BOYET. But to speak that in words which his eye hath disclos'd;
BOYET. Do not curst wives hold that self-sovereignty
BOYET. Do you hear, my mad wenches?
BOYET. Fair ladies mask'd are roses in their bud:
BOYET. Farewell to me, sir, and welcome to you.
BOYET. Full merrily
BOYET. Gone to her tent. Please it your Majesty
BOYET. Good sir, be not offended;
BOYET. Her mother's, I have heard.
BOYET. Here comes a member of the commonwealth.
BOYET. I am bound to serve.
BOYET. I am much deceived but I remember the style.
BOYET. I fear too much rubbing; good-night, my good owl.
BOYET. I know not; but I think it was not he.
BOYET. I was as willing to grapple as he was to board.
BOYET. I will; and so will she, I know, my lord.          Exit
BOYET. If my observation, which very seldom lies,
BOYET. If to come hither you have measur'd miles,
BOYET. Ladies, withdraw; the gallants are at hand.
BOYET. Madam, and pretty mistresses, give ear:
BOYET. Most true, 'tis right, you were so, Alisander.
BOYET. My lady goes to kill horns; but, if thou marry,
BOYET. Navarre had notice of your fair approach,
BOYET. No; he is best indued in the small.
BOYET. Not unlike, sir; that may be.           Exit LONGAVILLE
BOYET. Nothing but peace and gentle visitation.
BOYET. Now, madam, summon up your dearest spirits.
BOYET. O, I am stabb'd with laughter! Where's her Grace?
BOYET. Prepare, madam, prepare!
BOYET. Proud of employment, willingly I go.
BOYET. Renowned Pompey!
BOYET. Rosaline, by good hap.
BOYET. She hath but one for herself; to desire that were a shame.
BOYET. She hears herself.
BOYET. She says you have it, and you may be gone.
BOYET. So I may answer thee with one as old, that was a woman when
BOYET. So please your Grace, the packet is not come,
BOYET. So you grant pasture for me.     [Offering to kiss her]
BOYET. Tapers they are, with your sweet breaths puff'd out.
BOYET. The heir of Alencon, Katharine her name.
BOYET. The pommel of Coesar's falchion.
BOYET. The tongues of mocking wenches are as keen
BOYET. The trumpet sounds; be mask'd; the maskers come.
BOYET. Therefore, as he is an ass, let him go.
BOYET. They do, they do, and are apparell'd thus,
BOYET. They say that they have measur'd many a mile
BOYET. They will not answer to that epithet;
BOYET. They will, they will, God knows,
BOYET. This Armado is a Spaniard, that keeps here in court;
BOYET. To her will, sir, or so.
BOYET. To make Judas hang himself.
BOYET. True, and it was enjoined him in Rome for want of linen;
BOYET. True; out indeed.
BOYET. Under the cool shade of a sycamore
BOYET. What would you with the Princess?
BOYET. What, then; do you see?
BOYET. Who is the shooter? who is the shooter?
BOYET. Why, all his behaviours did make their retire
BOYET. Why, that contempt will kill the speaker's heart,
BOYET. With libbard's head on knee.
BOYET. With that which we lovers entitle 'affected.'
BOYET. You are too hard for me.                         Exeunt
BOYET. Your nose says, no, you are not; for it stands to right.
BOYET. [Aside to DUMAIN] Loves her by the foot.
BOYET. [Reads] 'By heaven, that thou art fair is most infallible;
Boy, Son of Macduff
CAITHNESS, nobleman of Scotland
CAITHNESS. Great Dunsinane he strongly fortifies.
CAITHNESS. Well, march we on
CAITHNESS. Who knows if Donalbain be with his brother?
COSTARD, a clown
COSTARD. 'Tis not so much worth; but I hope I was perfect.
COSTARD. An I had but one penny in the world, thou shouldst have it
COSTARD. As it shall follow in my correction; and God defend the
COSTARD. Be to me, and every man that dares not fight!
COSTARD. By my soul, a swain, a most simple clown!
COSTARD. By my troth, most pleasant! How both did fit it!
COSTARD. Faith, unless you play the honest Troyan, the poor wench
COSTARD. From my Lord Berowne, a good master of mine,
COSTARD. From my lord to my lady.
COSTARD. Gardon, O sweet gardon! better than remuneration; a
COSTARD. God dig-you-den all! Pray you, which is the head lady?
COSTARD. Have with thee, my girl.
COSTARD. I Pompey am, Pompey surnam'd the Big-
COSTARD. I Pompey am-
COSTARD. I Pompey am-
COSTARD. I am more bound to you than your fellows, for they are but
COSTARD. I do confess much of the hearing it, but little of the
COSTARD. I had rather pray a month with mutton and porridge.
COSTARD. I have a letter from Monsieur Berowne to one
COSTARD. I shall know, sir, when I have done it.
COSTARD. I suffer for the truth, sir; for true it is I was taken
COSTARD. I thank your worship. God be wi' you!
COSTARD. I told you: my lord.
COSTARD. I was taken with none, sir; I was taken with a damsel.
COSTARD. I will come to your worship to-morrow morning.
COSTARD. I will not fight with a pole, like a Northern man; I'll
COSTARD. I'll do it in my shirt.
COSTARD. If it were, I deny her virginity; I was taken with a maid.
COSTARD. In manner and form following, sir; all those three: I was
COSTARD. Indeed, 'a must shoot nearer, or he'll ne'er hit the
COSTARD. It is Great, sir.
COSTARD. It may be so; but if he say it is so, he is, in telling
COSTARD. It pleased them to think me worthy of Pompey the Great;
COSTARD. Let me not be pent up, sir; I will fast, being loose.
COSTARD. Marry, Master Schoolmaster, he that is likest to a
COSTARD. Marry, sir, halfpenny farthing.
COSTARD. Me?
COSTARD. Me?
COSTARD. My sweet ounce of man's flesh, my incony Jew!
COSTARD. Nay, it makes nothing, sir.
COSTARD. Nay, nothing, Master Moth, but what they look upon. It is
COSTARD. No egma, no riddle, no l'envoy; no salve in the mail, sir.
COSTARD. No, sir; but it is vara fine,
COSTARD. Not a word of Costard yet.
COSTARD. Not so, sir; under correction, sir,
COSTARD. O Lord, sir, it were pity you should get your living by
COSTARD. O Lord, sir, the parties themselves, the actors, sir, will
COSTARD. O Lord, sir, they would know
COSTARD. O, Marry me to one Frances! I smell some l'envoy, some
COSTARD. O, me!
COSTARD. O, they have liv'd long on the alms-basket of words. I
COSTARD. Of Dun Adramadio, Dun Adramadio.
COSTARD. Of other men's secrets, I beseech you.
COSTARD. Pray you, sir, how much carnation ribbon may a man buy for
COSTARD. She's too hard for you at pricks, sir; challenge her to
COSTARD. Sir, I confess the wench.
COSTARD. Sir, the contempts thereof are as touching me.
COSTARD. Some certain treason.
COSTARD. Still me?
COSTARD. Such is the simplicity of man to hearken after the flesh.
COSTARD. The boy hath sold him a bargain, a goose, that's flat.
COSTARD. The matter is to me, sir, as concerning Jaquenetta.
COSTARD. The party is gone, fellow Hector, she is gone; she is two
COSTARD. The thickest and the tallest! It is so; truth is truth.
COSTARD. Then shall Hector be whipt for Jaquenetta that is quick by
COSTARD. Then will she get the upshoot by cleaving the pin.
COSTARD. This maid will serve my turn, sir.
COSTARD. This was no damsel neither, sir; she was a virgin.
COSTARD. Thou hast no feeling of it, Moth; I will speak that
COSTARD. Till there be more matter in the shin.
COSTARD. True, and I for a plantain. Thus came your argument in;
COSTARD. True, true; and now you will be my purgation, and let me
COSTARD. Under correction, sir, we know whereuntil it doth amount.
COSTARD. Walk aside the true folk, and let the traitors stay.
COSTARD. We will turn it finely off, sir; we will take some care.
COSTARD. Well, I will do it, sir; fare you well.
COSTARD. Well, if ever I do see the merry days of desolation that I
COSTARD. Well, sir, I hope when I do it I shall do it on a full
COSTARD. When would you have it done, sir?
COSTARD. Which is the greatest lady, the highest?
COSTARD. With a wench.
COSTARD. Your servant, and Costard.
COSTARD. [To Sir Nathaniel] O, Sir, you have overthrown Alisander
Capt. 'Tis true, my lords, he did.
Capt. Edmund is dead, my lord.
Capt. I cannot draw a cart, nor eat dried oats;
Capt. I'll do't, my lord.
Capt. Sound, trumpet!                        A trumpet sounds.
Cor. 'Tis known before. Our preparation stands
Cor. Alack, 'tis he! Why, he was met even now
Cor. All blest secrets,
Cor. And so I am! I am!
Cor. Be better suited.
Cor. Be govern'd by your knowledge, and proceed
Cor. Had you not been their father, these white flakes
Cor. How does my royal lord? How fares your Majesty?
Cor. No cause, no cause.
Cor. O my dear father, restoration hang
Cor. O thou good Kent, how shall I live and work
Cor. O you kind gods,
Cor. O, look upon me, sir,
Cor. Sir, do you know me?
Cor. Still, still, far wide!
Cor. Then be't so, my good lord. [To the Doctor] How, does the King?
Cor. Very well.
Cor. We are not the first
Cor. Will't please your Highness walk?
Corn. And what confederacy have you with the traitors
Corn. Bind fast his corky arms.
Corn. Bind him, I say.
Corn. Come, sir, what letters had you late from France?
Corn. Cunning.
Corn. Edmund, farewell.
Corn. Get horses for your mistress.
Corn. Go with me to the Duchess.
Corn. I have receiv'd a hurt. Follow me, lady.
Corn. I now perceive it was not altogether your brother's evil
Corn. I will have my revenge ere I depart his house.
Corn. I will lay trust upon thee, and thou shalt find a dearer
Corn. If you see vengeance-
Corn. Leave him to my displeasure. Edmund, keep you our sister
Corn. Lest it see more, prevent it. Out, vile jelly!
Corn. My villain!                               Draw and fight.
Corn. See't shalt thou never. Fellows, hold the chair.
Corn. To this chair bind him. Villain, thou shalt find-
Corn. True or false, it hath made thee Earl of Gloucester.
Corn. Where hast thou sent the King?
Corn. Wherefore to Dover? Let him first answer that.
Corn. [to Goneril] Post speedily to my lord your husband, show him
DOCTOR. A great perturbation in nature, to receive at once the
DOCTOR. Ay, my good lord, your royal preparation
DOCTOR. Ay, sir, there are a crew of wretched souls
DOCTOR. Do you mark that?
DOCTOR. Even so?
DOCTOR. Foul whisperings are abroad. Unnatural deeds
DOCTOR. Go to, go to; you have known what you should not.
DOCTOR. Hark, she speaks! I will set down what comes from her, to
DOCTOR. How came she by that light?
DOCTOR. I have two nights watched with you, but can perceive no
DOCTOR. Not so sick, my lord,
DOCTOR. Therein the patient
DOCTOR. This disease is beyond my practice. Yet I have known those
DOCTOR. Well, well, well-
DOCTOR. What a sigh is there! The heart is sorely charged.
DOCTOR. What is it she does now? Look how she rubs her hands.
DOCTOR. Will she go now to bed?
DOCTOR. You may to me, and 'tis most meet you should.
DOCTOR. You see, her eyes are open.
DOCTOR. [Aside.] Were I from Dunsinane away and clear,
DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO, fantastical Spaniard
DONALBAIN, younger son of Duncan
DONALBAIN. To Ireland, I; our separated fortune
DONALBAIN. What is amiss?
DONALBAIN. [Aside to Malcolm.] What should be spoken here, where
DULL, a constable
DULL. 'Tis true, indeed; the collusion holds in the exchange.
DULL. 'Twas not a haud credo; 'twas a pricket.
DULL. And I say the polusion holds in the exchange; for the moon is
DULL. Come, Jaquenetta, away.             Exit with JAQUENETTA
DULL. I Said the deer was not a haud credo; 'twas a pricket.
DULL. I myself reprehend his own person, for I am his Grace's
DULL. I'll make one in a dance, or so, or I will play
DULL. Me, an't shall please you; I am Antony Dull.
DULL. Nor understood none neither, sir.
DULL. Signior Arme- Arme- commends you. There's villainy abroad;
DULL. Sir, the Duke's pleasure is that you keep Costard safe; and
DULL. What is Dictynna?
DULL. Which is the Duke's own person?
DULL. You two are book-men: can you tell me by your wit
DULL. [Aside] If a talent be a claw, look how he claws him with a
DUMAIN,      "      "      "   "   "
DUMAIN. A Judas!
DUMAIN. A gallant lady! Monsieur, fare you well.          Exit
DUMAIN. A gilt nutmeg.
DUMAIN. As fair as day.
DUMAIN. As upright as the cedar.
DUMAIN. Ay, and Hector's a greyhound.
DUMAIN. Ay, and in a brooch of lead.
DUMAIN. Ay, marry, there; some flattery for this evil.
DUMAIN. But what to me, my love? but what to me?
DUMAIN. By heaven, the wonder in a mortal eye!
DUMAIN. Dark needs no candles now, for dark is light.
DUMAIN. Fair lady-
DUMAIN. For the latter end of his name.
DUMAIN. He's a god or a painter, for he makes faces.
DUMAIN. Hector trembles.
DUMAIN. Hector will challenge him.
DUMAIN. Her amber hairs for foul hath amber quoted.
DUMAIN. How follows that?
DUMAIN. I never knew man hold vile stuff so dear.
DUMAIN. I think Hector was not so clean-timber'd.
DUMAIN. I would forget her; but a fever she
DUMAIN. I'll serve thee true and faithfully till then.
DUMAIN. In reason nothing.
DUMAIN. It is Berowne's writing, and here is his name.
DUMAIN. Judas Maccabaeus clipt is plain Judas.
DUMAIN. Let us confess, and turn it to a jest.
DUMAIN. More calf, certain.
DUMAIN. Most rare Pompey!
DUMAIN. Most resolute Pompey!
DUMAIN. My loving lord, Dumain is mortified.
DUMAIN. No, cloven.
DUMAIN. O most divine Kate!
DUMAIN. O that I had my wish!
DUMAIN. O vile! Then, as she goes, what upward lies
DUMAIN. O, shall I say I thank you, gentle wife?
DUMAIN. Once more I'll read the ode that I have writ.
DUMAIN. Our letters, madam, show'd much more than jest.
DUMAIN. Please it you,
DUMAIN. Proceeded well, to stop all good proceeding!
DUMAIN. Room for the incensed Worthies!
DUMAIN. Sir, I pray you, a word: what lady is that same?
DUMAIN. Some salve for perjury.
DUMAIN. That mint.
DUMAIN. The carv'd-bone face on a flask.
DUMAIN. The head of a bodkin.
DUMAIN. The more shame for you, Judas!
DUMAIN. The worthy knight of Troy.
DUMAIN. Though my mocks come home by me, I will now be merry.
DUMAIN. To look like her are chimney-sweepers black.
DUMAIN. Will you vouchsafe with me to change a word?
DUMAIN. You may not deny it: Pompey hath made the challenge.
DUMAIN. [Aside to BOYET] He may not by the yard.
DUMAIN. [Reads]
DUNCAN, King of Scotland
DUNCAN. Dismay'd not this
DUNCAN. Give me your hand;
DUNCAN. Great happiness!
DUNCAN. Is execution done on Cawdor? Are not
DUNCAN. My plenteous joys,
DUNCAN. My worthy Cawdor!
DUNCAN. No more that Thane of Cawdor shall deceive
DUNCAN. O valiant cousin! Worthy gentleman!
DUNCAN. See, see, our honor'd hostess!
DUNCAN. So well thy words become thee as thy wounds;
DUNCAN. There's no art
DUNCAN. This castle hath a pleasant seat; the air
DUNCAN. True, worthy Banquo! He is full so valiant,
DUNCAN. Welcome hither.
DUNCAN. What bloody man is that? He can report,
DUNCAN. What he hath lost, noble Macbeth hath won.
DUNCAN. Whence camest thou, worthy Thane?
DUNCAN. Where's the Thane of Cawdor?
Doct. Be by, good madam, when we do awake him.
Doct. Be comforted, good madam. The great rage
Doct. He's scarce awake. Let him alone awhile.
Doct. Madam, do you; 'tis fittest.
Doct. Madam, sleeps still.
Doct. Please you draw near. Louder the music there!
Doct. So please your Majesty
Doct. There is means, madam.
Edg. 'Tis noble Kent, your friend.
Edg. A most poor man, made tame to fortune's blows,
Edg. As I stood here below, methought his eyes
Edg. Away, old man! give me thy hand! away!
Edg. Ay, master.
Edg. Bear free and patient thoughts.
Edg. Before you fight the battle, ope this letter.
Edg. Bless thy five wits!
Edg. Both stile and gate, horseway and footpath. Poor Tom hath been
Edg. But, by your favour,
Edg. By nursing them, my lord. List a brief tale;
Edg. Child Rowland to the dark tower came;
Edg. Chill not let go, zir, without vurther 'cagion.
Edg. Chill pick your teeth, zir. Come! No matter vor your foins.
Edg. Come on, sir; here's the place. Stand still. How fearful
Edg. Do you hear aught, sir, of a battle toward?
Edg. Draw thy sword,
Edg. Frateretto calls me, and tells me Nero is an angler in the
Edg. From the dread summit of this chalky bourn.
Edg. Give me thy arm.
Edg. Give me your arm.
Edg. Give me your hand.
Edg. Give me your hand. You are now within a foot
Edg. Gone, sir, farewell.-
Edg. Good gentleman, go your gait, and let poor voke pass. An chud
Edg. Hadst thou been aught but gossamer, feathers, air,
Edg. Hail, gentle sir.
Edg. He faints! My lord, my lord!
Edg. He is gone indeed.
Edg. Here comes Kent.
Edg. Here, father, take the shadow of this tree
Edg. Horrible steep.
Edg. I know thee well. A serviceable villain,
Edg. I thank you sir. That's all.
Edg. I thank you, sir
Edg. I was forbid it.
Edg. If e'er your Grace had speech with man so poor,
Edg. Kent, sir, the banish'd Kent; who in disguise
Edg. Know my name is lost;
Edg. Let us deal justly.
Edg. Let's exchange charity.
Edg. Look up, my lord.
Edg. Look, where he stands and glares! Want'st thou eyes at trial,
Edg. Now fare ye well, good sir.
Edg. O thou side-piercing sight!
Edg. O, matter and impertinency mix'd!
Edg. Or image of that horror?
Edg. Poor Tom's acold. [Aside] I cannot daub it further.
Edg. Sit you down, father; rest you.
Edg. Sweet marjoram.
Edg. The foul fiend bites my back.
Edg. The foul fiend haunts poor Tom in the voice of a nightingale.
Edg. This is above all strangeness.
Edg. This would have seem'd a period
Edg. To who, my lord? Who has the office? Send
Edg. Tom will throw his head at them. Avaunt, you curs!
Edg. Tom's acold.
Edg. Very bootless.
Edg. Well pray you, father.
Edg. What kind of help?
Edg. What means that bloody knife?
Edg. What's he that speaks for Edmund Earl of Gloucester?
Edg. What, in ill thoughts again? Men must endure
Edg. When we our betters see bearing our woes,
Edg. Why, then, your other senses grow imperfect
Edg. Worthy prince, I know't.
Edg. Y'are much deceiv'd. In nothing am I chang'd
Edg. Yet better thus, and known to be contemn'd,
Edg. You do climb up it now. Look how we labour.
Edg. [aside] And worse I may be yet. The worst is not
Edg. [aside] And yet I must.- Bless thy sweet eyes, they bleed.
Edg. [aside] How should this be?
Edg. [aside] I would not take this from report. It is,
Edg. [aside] My tears begin to take his part so much
Edg. [aside] O gods! Who is't can say 'I am at the worst'?
Edg. [aside]. Why I do trifle thus with his despair
Edm. A herald, ho, a herald!
Edm. About it! and write happy when th' hast done.
Edm. Come hither, Captain; hark.
Edm. Fear me not.
Edm. He hath commission from thy wife and me
Edm. Himself. What say'st thou to him?
Edm. How malicious is my fortune that I must repent to be just!
Edm. How, my lord, I may be censured, that nature thus gives way to
Edm. I pant for life. Some good I mean to do,
Edm. I shall attend you presently at your tent.
Edm. I was contracted to them both. All three
Edm. If the matter of this paper be certain, you have mighty
Edm. In honour'd love.
Edm. In wisdom I should ask thy name;
Edm. Know of the Duke if his last purpose hold,
Edm. No, by mine honour, madam.
Edm. Nor in thine, lord.
Edm. Sir, I thought it fit
Edm. Sir, you speak nobly.
Edm. Some officers take them away. Good guard
Edm. Sound!                                     First trumpet.
Edm. Take them away.
Edm. Th' hast spoken right; 'tis true.
Edm. That thought abuses you.
Edm. The enemy 's in view; draw up your powers.
Edm. There's my exchange [throws down a glove]. What in the world
Edm. This speech of yours hath mov'd me,
Edm. Tis to be doubted, madam.
Edm. To both these sisters have I sworn my love;
Edm. Well thought on. Take my sword;
Edm. What, you have charg'd me with, that have I done,
Edm. Yet Edmund was belov'd.
Edm. Yours in the ranks of death!                        Exit.
Edm. [aside] If I find him comforting the King, it will stuff his
FERDINAND, King of Navarre
FIRST APPARITION. Macbeth! Macbeth! Macbeth! Beware Macduff,
FIRST LORD. Here comes Boyet.
FIRST LORD. Lord Longaville is one.
FIRST MURTHERER. And I another
FIRST MURTHERER. But who did bid thee join with us?
FIRST MURTHERER. He's a traitor.
FIRST MURTHERER. His horses go about.
FIRST MURTHERER. It was, so please your Highness.
FIRST MURTHERER. Let it come down.
FIRST MURTHERER. Stand to't.
FIRST MURTHERER. Then stand with us.
FIRST MURTHERER. Though our lives-
FIRST MURTHERER. Wast not the way?
FIRST MURTHERER. We are men, my liege.
FIRST MURTHERER. Well, let's away and say how much is done.
FIRST MURTHERER. What, you egg!
FIRST MURTHERER. Where is your husband?
FIRST MURTHERER. You made it known to us.
FIRST WITCH. A sailor's wife had chestnuts in her lap,
FIRST WITCH. All hail, Macbeth, hail to thee, Thane of Glamis!
FIRST WITCH. Ay, sir, all this is so. But why
FIRST WITCH. Banquo and Macbeth, all hail!
FIRST WITCH. Come, let's make haste; she'll soon be back again.
FIRST WITCH. Hail!
FIRST WITCH. He knows thy thought:
FIRST WITCH. He will not be commanded. Here's another,
FIRST WITCH. Here I have a pilot's thumb,
FIRST WITCH. I come, Graymalkin.
FIRST WITCH. I myself have all the other,
FIRST WITCH. Lesser than Macbeth, and greater.
FIRST WITCH. Pour in sow's blood that hath eaten
FIRST WITCH. Round about the cauldron go;
FIRST WITCH. Say, if thou'dst rather hear it from our mouths,
FIRST WITCH. Show!
FIRST WITCH. Speak.
FIRST WITCH. Thou'rt kind.
FIRST WITCH. Thrice the brinded cat hath mew'd.
FIRST WITCH. When shall we three meet again?
FIRST WITCH. Where hast thou been, sister?
FIRST WITCH. Where the place?
FIRST WITCH. Why, how now, Hecate? You look angerly.
FLEANCE, his son
FLEANCE. I take't 'tis later, sir.
FLEANCE. The moon is down; I have not heard the clock.
FORESTER. Hereby, upon the edge of yonder coppice;
FORESTER. Nothing but fair is that which you inherit.
FORESTER. Pardon me, madam, for I meant not so.
FORESTER. Yes, madam, fair.
Fool.      Her boat hath a leak,
Fool. And I'll go to bed at noon.
Fool. Come hither, mistress. Is your name Goneril?
Fool. Cry you mercy, I took you for a joint-stool.
Fool. He's mad that trusts in the tameness of a wolf, a horse's
Fool. No, he's a yeoman that has a gentleman to his son; for he's a
Fool. Prithee, nuncle, tell me whether a madman be a gentleman or a
GENTLEWOMAN. Ay, but their sense is shut.
GENTLEWOMAN. Directly.
GENTLEWOMAN. Good night, good doctor.
GENTLEWOMAN. I would not have such a heart in my bosom for the
GENTLEWOMAN. It is an accustomed action with her, to seem thus
GENTLEWOMAN. Neither to you nor anyone, having no witness to
GENTLEWOMAN. Pray God it be, sir.
GENTLEWOMAN. She has spoke what she should not, I am sure of that.
GENTLEWOMAN. Since his Majesty went into the field, have seen her
GENTLEWOMAN. That, sir, which I will not report after her.
GENTLEWOMAN. Why, it stood by her. She has light by her
Gent. 'Tis hot, it smokes.
Gent. 'Tis so; they are afoot.
Gent. A servant that he bred, thrill'd with remorse,
Gent. A sight most pitiful in the meanest wretch,
Gent. Alack, poor gentleman!
Gent. Ay, madam. In the heaviness of sleep
Gent. Ay, my good lord. 'Twas he inform'd against him,
Gent. Ay, sir. She took them, read them in my presence,
Gent. Both, both, my lord.
Gent. Come with my lady hither.
Gent. Faith, once or twice she heav'd the name of father
Gent. Good sir-
Gent. Help, help! O, help!
Gent. Holds it true, sir, that the Duke of Cornwall was so slain?
Gent. Most sure and vulgar. Every one hears that
Gent. Near and on speedy foot. The main descry
Gent. No, my good lord; I met him back again.
Gent. No, since.
Gent. No.
Gent. Not to a rage. Patience and sorrow strove
Gent. O, here he is! Lay hand upon him.- Sir,
Gent. O, my good lord, the Duke of Cornwall 's dead,
Gent. Sir, speed you. What's your will?
Gent. Something he left imperfect in the state, which since his
Gent. The Marshal of France, Monsieur La Far.
Gent. The arbitrement is like to be bloody.
Gent. They say Edgar, his banish'd son, is with the Earl of Kent
Gent. Though that the Queen on special cause is here,
Gent. Who is conductor of his people?
Gent. Why, good sir?
Gent. You are a royal one, and we obey you.
Gent. You shall have anything.
Gent. Your lady, sir, your lady! and her sister
Gentlewoman attending on Lady Macbeth
Glou. 'Tis the time's plague when madmen lead the blind.
Glou. A poor unfortunate beggar.
Glou. Alack, I have no eyes!
Glou. Alack, alack the day!
Glou. All dark and comfortless! Where's my son Edmund?
Glou. And that's true too.                             Exeunt.
Glou. Away, and let me die.
Glou. Away, get thee away! Good friend, be gone.
Glou. Ay, sir.
Glou. Because I would not see thy cruel nails
Glou. But have I fall'n, or no?
Glou. By the kind gods, 'tis most ignobly done
Glou. Canst thou blame him?
Glou. Come hither, fellow.
Glou. Come hither, friend. Where is the King my master?
Glou. Come, come, away!
Glou. Good friend, I prithee take him in thy arms.
Glou. Grace go with you, sir!
Glou. He has some reason, else he could not beg.
Glou. He that will think to live till he be old,
Glou. Hearty thanks.
Glou. Here is better than the open air; take it thankfully. I will
Glou. Here, take this Purse, thou whom the heavens' plagues
Glou. I am tied to th' stake, and I must stand the course.
Glou. I do remember now. Henceforth I'll bear
Glou. I have a letter guessingly set down,
Glou. I have no way, and therefore want no eyes;
Glou. I know that voice.
Glou. I see it feelingly.
Glou. In, fellow, there, into th' hovel; keep thee warm.
Glou. Is it a beggarman?
Glou. Is that the naked fellow?
Glou. Know'st thou the way to Dover?
Glou. Let go my hand.
Glou. Methinks the ground is even.
Glou. Methinks y'are better spoken.
Glou. Naughty lady,
Glou. No further, sir. A man may rot even here.
Glou. No words, no words! hush.
Glou. No, truly.
Glou. Now let thy friendly hand
Glou. Now, good sir, what are you?
Glou. O my follies! Then Edgar was abus'd.
Glou. O ruin'd piece of nature! This great world
Glou. O you mighty gods!                            He kneels.
Glou. O, let me kiss that hand!
Glou. Set me where you stand.
Glou. Sirrah naked fellow-
Glou. So may it be indeed.
Glou. Take him you on.
Glou. The King is mad. How stiff is my vile sense,
Glou. The trick of that voice I do well remember.
Glou. Then prithee get thee gone. If for my sake
Glou. There is a cliff, whose high and bending head
Glou. To Dover.
Glou. Too well, too well.
Glou. Unmerciful lady as you are, I am none.
Glou. Were all the letters suns, I could not see one.
Glou. What mean, your Graces? Good my friends, consider
Glou. What, is he dead?
Glou. What, with the case of eyes?
Glou. When shall I come to th' top of that same hill?
Glou. With all my heart.
Glou. You ever-gentle gods, take my breath from me;
Gon. An interlude!
Gon. Ask me not what I know.                             Exit.
Gon. Combine together 'gainst the enemy;
Gon. Farewell, sweet lord, and sister.
Gon. Holla, holla!
Gon. I have been worth the whistle.
Gon. Marry, your manhood mew!
Gon. Mean you to enjoy him?
Gon. Milk-liver'd man!
Gon. My most dear Gloucester!
Gon. No more! The text is foolish.
Gon. No.
Gon. Not so hot!
Gon. O vain fool!
Gon. Pluck out his eyes.
Gon. Say if I do- the laws are mine, not thine.
Gon. That were the most if he should husband you.
Gon. This is mere practice, Gloucester.
Gon. Welcome, my lord. I marvel our mild husband
Gon. [aside] I had rather lose the battle than that sister
Gon. [aside] If not, I'll ne'er trust medicine.
Gon. [aside] O, ho, I know the riddle.- I will go.
Gon. [aside] One way I like this well;
Gon. [to Edmund] Then shall you go no further.
HECATE, Queen of the Witches
HECATE. Have I not reason, beldams as you are,
HECATE. O, well done! I commend your pains,
HOLOFERNES, a schoolmaster
HOLOFERNES. 'Bone'?- 'bone' for 'bene.' Priscian a little
HOLOFERNES. Allons! we will employ thee.
HOLOFERNES. And certes, the text most infallibly concludes it.
HOLOFERNES. Ba, pueritia, with a horn added.
HOLOFERNES. Begin, sir; you are my elder.
HOLOFERNES. But you have outfac'd them all.
HOLOFERNES. Dictynna, goodman Dull; Dictynna, goodman Dull.
HOLOFERNES. Fauste, precor gelida quando pecus omne sub umbra
HOLOFERNES. God comfort thy capacity! I say th' allusion holds in
HOLOFERNES. Great Hercules is presented by this imp,
HOLOFERNES. He draweth out the thread of his verbosity finer than
HOLOFERNES. I Will something affect the letter, for it argues
HOLOFERNES. I do dine to-day at the father's of a certain pupil of
HOLOFERNES. I do, sans question.
HOLOFERNES. I will not be put out of countenance.
HOLOFERNES. I will overglance the superscript: 'To the snow-white
HOLOFERNES. I will play three myself.
HOLOFERNES. I will repeat them: a, e, I-
HOLOFERNES. Joshua, yourself; myself, Alexander; this gallant
HOLOFERNES. Judas I am-
HOLOFERNES. Let me hear a staff, a stanze, a verse; lege, domine.
HOLOFERNES. Master Person, quasi pers-one. And if one should be
HOLOFERNES. Mehercle, if their sons be ingenious, they shall want
HOLOFERNES. Most barbarous intimation! yet a kind of insinuation,
HOLOFERNES. Most dull, honest Dull! To our sport, away.
HOLOFERNES. Most military sir, salutation.
HOLOFERNES. Not Iscariot, sir.
HOLOFERNES. Novi hominem tanquam te. His humour is lofty, his
HOLOFERNES. O, I smell false Latin; 'dunghill' for unguem.
HOLOFERNES. Or mons, the hill.
HOLOFERNES. Piercing a hogshead! A good lustre of conceit in a turf
HOLOFERNES. Quare 'chirrah,' not 'sirrah'?
HOLOFERNES. Quis, quis, thou consonant?
HOLOFERNES. Satis quod sufficit.
HOLOFERNES. Shall I have audience? He shall present Hercules in
HOLOFERNES. Sir Nathaniel, haud credo.
HOLOFERNES. Sir Nathaniel, will you hear an extemporal epitaph on
HOLOFERNES. Sir, tell not me of the father; I do fear colourable
HOLOFERNES. Sir, you shall present before her the Nine Worthies.
HOLOFERNES. The deer was, as you know, sanguis, in blood; ripe as
HOLOFERNES. The moon was a month old when Adam was no more,
HOLOFERNES. The posterior of the day, most generous sir, is liable,
HOLOFERNES. This is a gift that I have, simple, simple; a foolish
HOLOFERNES. This is not generous, not gentle, not humble.
HOLOFERNES. Thou disputes like an infant; go whip thy gig.
HOLOFERNES. Twice-sod simplicity, bis coctus!
HOLOFERNES. Via, goodman Dull! Thou has spoken no word all this
HOLOFERNES. Video, et gaudeo.
HOLOFERNES. We attend.
HOLOFERNES. What is the figure? What is the figure?
HOLOFERNES. What is this?
HOLOFERNES. What mean you, sir?
HOLOFERNES. You find not the apostrophas, and so miss the accent:
HOLOFERNES. You have put me out of countenance.
Her. (reads) 'If any man of quality or degree within the lists of
Her. Again!                                     Third trumpet.
Her. Again!                                    Second trumpet.
Her. What are you?
JAQUENETTA, a country wench
JAQUENETTA. Ay, sir, from one Monsieur Berowne, one of the strange
JAQUENETTA. Fair weather after you!
JAQUENETTA. God bless the King!
JAQUENETTA. God give you good morrow, Master Person.
JAQUENETTA. Good Costard, go with me. Sir, God save your life!
JAQUENETTA. Good Master Parson, be so good as read me this letter;
JAQUENETTA. I beseech your Grace, let this letter be read;
JAQUENETTA. Lord, how wise you are!
JAQUENETTA. Man!
JAQUENETTA. Of Costard.
JAQUENETTA. So I heard you say.
JAQUENETTA. That's hereby.
JAQUENETTA. With that face?
KATHARINE, lady attending on the Princess
KATHARINE. 'Tis long of you, that spur me with such questions.
KATHARINE. 'Veal' quoth the Dutchman. Is not 'veal' a calf?
KATHARINE. A beard, fair health, and honesty;
KATHARINE. A light condition in a beauty dark.
KATHARINE. A pox of that jest! and I beshrew all shrows!
KATHARINE. Amen, so you be none.
KATHARINE. And Longaville was for my service born.
KATHARINE. Ay, and a shrewd unhappy gallows too.
KATHARINE. Bleat softly, then; the butcher hears you cry.
KATHARINE. But, in this changing, what is your intent?
KATHARINE. Did not I dance with you in Brabant once?
KATHARINE. Fair as a text B in a copy-book.
KATHARINE. Fair fall the face it covers!
KATHARINE. He is Cupid's grandfather, and learns news of him.
KATHARINE. He made her melancholy, sad, and heavy;
KATHARINE. How needless was it then to ask the question!
KATHARINE. Lord Longaville said I came o'er his heart;
KATHARINE. Madam, this glove.
KATHARINE. No so, my lord; a twelvemonth and a day
KATHARINE. No, I'll not be your half.
KATHARINE. No, a fair lord calf.
KATHARINE. Not so, gentle beast;
KATHARINE. Not till it leave the rider in the mire.
KATHARINE. O for your reason! Quickly, sir; I long.
KATHARINE. So do not you; for you are a light wench.
KATHARINE. The hour that fools should ask.
KATHARINE. The young Dumain, a well-accomplish'd youth,
KATHARINE. Then die a calf, before your horns do grow.
KATHARINE. To my fortunes and me.
KATHARINE. Two hot sheeps, marry!
KATHARINE. What, was your vizard made without a tongue?
KATHARINE. Yes, in good faith.
KATHARINE. Yes, madam; and, moreover,
KATHARINE. Yet swear not, lest ye be forsworn again.
KATHARINE. You sheep and I pasture- shall that finish the jest?
KATHARINE. You weigh me not? O, that's you care not for me.
KATHARINE. You'll mar the light by taking it in snuff;
KING. 'For Jaquenetta- so is the weaker vessel called, which I
KING. 'Twere good yours did; for, sir, to tell you plain,
KING. 'sorted and consorted, contrary to thy established proclaimed
KING. 'that shallow vassal,'
KING. 'that unlettered small-knowing soul,'
KING. 'which, as I remember, hight Costard,'
KING. A blister on his sweet tongue, with my heart,
KING. A letter from the magnificent Armado.
KING. All hail, sweet madam, and fair time of day!
KING. And Don Armado shall be your keeper.
KING. And Ethiopes of their sweet complexion crack.
KING. And I mine too,.good Lord!
KING. And win them too; therefore let us devise
KING. Away, away! No time shall be omitted
KING. Ay me!
KING. Ay, that is study's god-like recompense.
KING. Ay, that there is. Our court, you know, is haunted
KING. Ay, the best for the worst. But, sirrah, what say you to
KING. Berowne, read it over.        [BEROWNE reads the letter]
KING. Berowne, they will shame us; let them not approach.
KING. Blessed are clouds, to do as such clouds do.
KING. But what of this? Are we not all in love?
KING. But your legs should do it.
KING. By heaven, thy love is black as ebony.
KING. Call them forth quickly; we will do so.
KING. Come, sir, it wants a twelvemonth an' a day,
KING. Construe my speeches better, if you may.
KING. Despise me when I break this oath of mine.
KING. Did you hear the proclamation?
KING. Fair Princess, welcome to the court of Navarre.
KING. Fair sir, God save you! Where's the Princess?
KING. Farewell, mad wenches; you have simple wits.
KING. Hear me, dear lady: I have sworn an oath-
KING. Hector was but a Troyan in respect of this.
KING. Hence, sirs, away.
KING. Here is like to be a good presence of Worthies. He presents
KING. How fares your Majesty?
KING. How now! What is in you? Why dost thou tear it?
KING. How well he's read, to reason against reading!
KING. How well this yielding rescues thee from shame!
KING. How, madam! Russians!
KING. I am best pleas'd with that.       [They converse apart]
KING. I do protest I never heard of it;
KING. I say they shall not come.
KING. I was, fair madam.
KING. If it mar nothing neither,
KING. If this, or more than this, I would deny,
KING. If you deny to dance, let's hold more chat.
KING. In love, I hope; sweet fellowship in shame!
KING. It is so varied too, for it was proclaimed virgin.
KING. It shall suffice me; at which interview
KING. It was proclaimed a year's imprisonment to be taken with a
KING. Let fame, that all hunt after in their lives,
KING. Madam, I was.
KING. Madam, I will, if suddenly I may.
KING. Madam, not so; I do beseech you stay.
KING. Madam, your father here doth intimate
KING. More measure of this measure; be not nice.
KING. My faith and this the Princess I did give;
KING. No devil will fright thee then so much as she.
KING. No words!
KING. No, madam; we will bring you on your way.
KING. Not for the world, fair madam, by my will.
KING. Now, at the latest minute of the hour,
KING. O paradox! Black is the badge of hell,
KING. O, you have liv'd in desolation here,
KING. Peace!
KING. Price you yourselves. What buys your company?
KING. Rebuke me not for that which you provoke.
KING. Saint Cupid, then! and, soldiers, to the field!
KING. Satisfy me so.
KING. Say to her we have measur'd many miles
KING. Sir, I will pronounce your sentence: you shall fast a week
KING. Soft! whither away so fast?
KING. Teach us, sweet madam, for our rude transgression
KING. That can never be.
KING. That more than all the world I did respect her.
KING. That she vouchsafe me audience for one word.
KING. The extreme parts of time extremely forms
KING. The ship is under sail, and here she comes amain.
KING. Then in our measure do but vouchsafe one change.
KING. Then leave this chat; and, good Berowne, now prove
KING. These be the stops that hinder study quite,
KING. This 'maid' not serve your turn, sir.
KING. Thy own wish wish I thee in every place.
KING. Too bitter is thy jest.
KING. Upon mine honour, no.
KING. We came to visit you, and purpose now
KING. We must of force dispense with this decree;
KING. We were descried; they'll mock us now downright.
KING. Well, it was proclaimed damsel.
KING. Well, sit out; go home, Berowne; adieu.
KING. What makes treason here?
KING. What mean you, madam? By my life, my troth,
KING. What present hast thou there?
KING. What say you, lords? Why, this was quite forgot.
KING. What zeal, what fury hath inspir'd thee now?
KING. What, did these rent lines show some love of thine?
KING. What?
KING. Where hadst thou it?
KING. Why take we hands then?
KING. Why, that to know which else we should not know.
KING. Will you hear this letter with attention?
KING. Will you not dance? How come you thus estranged?
KING. Yet still she is the Moon, and I the Man.
KING. You are deceived, 'tis not so.
KING. You shall be welcome, madam, to my court.
KING. Your ladyship is ignorant what it is.
KING. Your oath is pass'd to pass away from these.
KING. [Advancing] Come, sir, you blush; as his, your case is such.
KING. [Reads]
KING. [Reads] 'Great deputy, the welkin's vicegerent and sole
KING. [Reads] 'So it is'-
KING. [Reads] 'So it is, besieged with sable-coloured melancholy, I
Kent. A sovereign shame so elbows him; his own unkindness,
Kent. Alack, why thus?
Kent. All the power of his wits have given way to his impatience.
Kent. As 'tis said, the bastard son of Gloucester.
Kent. Break, heart; I prithee break!
Kent. Did your letters pierce the Queen to any demonstration of
Kent. Good my lord, soothe him; let him take the fellow.
Kent. Here, sir; but trouble him not; his wits are gone.
Kent. How do you, sir? Stand you not so amaz'd.
Kent. I am come
Kent. I have a journey, sir, shortly to go.
Kent. If fortune brag of two she lov'd and hated,
Kent. In your own kingdom, sir.
Kent. Is this the promis'd end?
Kent. It is the stars,
Kent. Kind and dear princess!
Kent. Made she no verbal question?
Kent. Most certain, sir.
Kent. My point and period will be throughly wrought,
Kent. No, my good lord; I am the very man-
Kent. Nor no man else! All's cheerless, dark, and deadly.
Kent. Now, good my lord, lie here and rest awhile.
Kent. O my good master!
Kent. O pity! Sir, where is the patience now
Kent. O, then it mov'd her?
Kent. Of Albany's and Cornwall's powers you heard not?
Kent. Oppressed nature sleeps.
Kent. Pardon, dear madam.
Kent. Report is changeable. 'Tis time to look about; the powers of
Kent. Sirrah, come on; go along with us.
Kent. That from your first of difference and decay
Kent. The same-
Kent. The wonder is, he hath endur'd so long.
Kent. This way, my lord.
Kent. To be acknowledg'd, madam, is o'erpaid.
Kent. Vex not his ghost. O, let him pass! He hates him
Kent. Was this before the King return'd?
Kent. Well, sir, I'll bring you to our master Lear
Kent. Well, sir, the poor distressed Lear's i' th' town;
Kent. Who hath he left behind him general?
Kent. Why the King of France is so suddenly gone back know you the
LADY MACBETH, his wife
LADY MACBETH. "They met me in the day of success, and I have
LADY MACBETH. A foolish thought, to say a sorry sight.
LADY MACBETH. A kind good night to all!
LADY MACBETH. Alack, I am afraid they have awaked
LADY MACBETH. All our service
LADY MACBETH. Almost at odds with morning, which is which.
LADY MACBETH. And when goes hence?
LADY MACBETH. Ay.
LADY MACBETH. But in them nature's copy's not eterne.
LADY MACBETH. Come on,
LADY MACBETH. Consider it not so deeply.
LADY MACBETH. Did you send to him, sir?
LADY MACBETH. Donalbain.
LADY MACBETH. Fie, for shame!
LADY MACBETH. Give him tending;
LADY MACBETH. He has almost supp'd. Why have you left the chamber?
LADY MACBETH. Help me hence, ho!
LADY MACBETH. Here's the smell of the blood still. All the perfumes
LADY MACBETH. I heard the owl scream and the crickets cry.
LADY MACBETH. I pray you, speak not; he grows worse and worse;
LADY MACBETH. If he had been forgotten,
LADY MACBETH. Infirm of purpose!
LADY MACBETH. Is Banquo gone from court?
LADY MACBETH. Know you not he has?
LADY MACBETH. My hands are of your color, but I shame
LADY MACBETH. My royal lord,
LADY MACBETH. My worthy lord,
LADY MACBETH. Nought's had, all's spent,
LADY MACBETH. Now.
LADY MACBETH. O proper stuff!
LADY MACBETH. O, never
LADY MACBETH. Only look up clear;
LADY MACBETH. Out, damned spot! Out, I say! One- two -why then 'tis
LADY MACBETH. Pronounce it for me, sir, to all our friends,
LADY MACBETH. Say to the King I would attend his leisure
LADY MACBETH. Sit, worthy friends; my lord is often thus,
LADY MACBETH. That which hath made them drunk hath made me bold;
LADY MACBETH. The Thane of Fife had a wife; where is she now? What,
LADY MACBETH. There are two lodged together.
LADY MACBETH. These deeds must not be thought
LADY MACBETH. Think of this, good peers,
LADY MACBETH. Thou'rt mad to say it!
LADY MACBETH. To bed, to bed; there's knocking at the gate. Come,
LADY MACBETH. Was the hope drunk
LADY MACBETH. Wash your hands, put on your nightgown, look not so
LADY MACBETH. We fail?
LADY MACBETH. What beast wast then
LADY MACBETH. What do you mean?
LADY MACBETH. What's the business,
LADY MACBETH. What's to be done?
LADY MACBETH. What, quite unmann'd in folly?
LADY MACBETH. Who dares receive it other,
LADY MACBETH. Who was it that thus cried? Why, worthy Thane,
LADY MACBETH. Woe, alas!
LADY MACBETH. Yet here's a spot.
LADY MACBETH. You have displaced the mirth, broke the good meeting,
LADY MACBETH. You lack the season of all natures, sleep.
LADY MACBETH. You must leave this.
LADY MACBETH. Your servants ever
LADY MACDUFF, his wife
LADY MACDUFF. Ay, that he was.
LADY MACDUFF. Everyone that does so is a traitor and must be
LADY MACDUFF. Everyone.
LADY MACDUFF. Father'd he is, and yet he's fatherless.
LADY MACDUFF. He had none;
LADY MACDUFF. I hope, in no place so unsanctified
LADY MACDUFF. Now, God help thee, poor monkey! But how wilt thou do
LADY MACDUFF. Poor bird! Thou'ldst never fear the net nor lime,
LADY MACDUFF. Poor prattler, how thou talk'st!
LADY MACDUFF. Sirrah, your father's dead.
LADY MACDUFF. Thou speak'st with all thy wit, and yet, i' faith,
LADY MACDUFF. What had he done, to make him fly the land?
LADY MACDUFF. What, with worms and flies?
LADY MACDUFF. Whither should I fly?
LADY MACDUFF. Why one that swears and lies.
LADY MACDUFF. Why, I can buy me twenty at any market.
LADY MACDUFF. Why, the honest men.
LADY MACDUFF. Wisdom? To leave his wife, to leave his babes,
LADY MACDUFF. Yes, he is dead. How wilt thou do for father?
LENNOX, nobleman of Scotland
LENNOX. 'Tis two or three, my lord, that bring you word
LENNOX. And that well might
LENNOX. Ay, my good lord.
LENNOX. For certain, sir, he is not; I have a file
LENNOX. Goes the King hence today?
LENNOX. Good morrow, noble sir.
LENNOX. Good night, and better health
LENNOX. Here is a place reserved, sir.
LENNOX. Here, my good lord. What is't that moves your Highness?
LENNOX. May't please your Highness sit.
LENNOX. Mean you his Majesty?
LENNOX. My former speeches have but hit your thoughts,
LENNOX. My young remembrance cannot parallel
LENNOX. No indeed, my lord.
LENNOX. No, my lord.
LENNOX. Or so much as it needs
LENNOX. Sent he to Macduff?
LENNOX. The night has been unruly. Where we lay,
LENNOX. Those of his chamber, as it seem'd, had done't.
LENNOX. What a haste looks through his eyes! So should he look
LENNOX. What's your Grace's will?
LONGAVILLE,  "      "      "   "   "
LONGAVILLE. A calf, fair lady!
LONGAVILLE. A high hope for a low heaven. God grant us patience!
LONGAVILLE. Am I the first that have been perjur'd so?
LONGAVILLE. And I had mine!
LONGAVILLE. And since her time are colliers counted bright.
LONGAVILLE. Ay me, I am forsworn!
LONGAVILLE. Berowne is like an envious sneaping frost
LONGAVILLE. By whom shall I send this?- Company! Stay.
LONGAVILLE. Costard the swain and he shall be our sport;
LONGAVILLE. Four days ago.
LONGAVILLE. God's blessing on your beard!
LONGAVILLE. He weeds the corn, and still lets grow the weeding.
LONGAVILLE. His leg is too big for Hector's.
LONGAVILLE. I am resolv'd; 'tis but a three years' fast.
LONGAVILLE. I beseech you a word: what is she in the white?
LONGAVILLE. I fear these stubborn lines lack power to move.
LONGAVILLE. I know the reason, lady, why you ask.
LONGAVILLE. I must rather give it the rein, for it runs against
LONGAVILLE. I'll stay with patience; but the time is long.
LONGAVILLE. It did move him to passion, and therefore let's hear
LONGAVILLE. Let's part the word.
LONGAVILLE. Look how you butt yourself in these sharp mocks!
LONGAVILLE. Look, here's thy love: my foot and her face see.
LONGAVILLE. Marry, that did I.
LONGAVILLE. Nay, my choler is ended.
LONGAVILLE. Now to plain-dealing; lay these glozes by.
LONGAVILLE. O, some authority how to proceed;
LONGAVILLE. One word in private with you ere I die.
LONGAVILLE. Perchance light in the light. I desire her name.
LONGAVILLE. Pray you, sir, whose daughter?
LONGAVILLE. So did our looks.
LONGAVILLE. Stuck with cloves.
LONGAVILLE. That columbine.
LONGAVILLE. The face of an old Roman coin, scarce seen.
LONGAVILLE. This same shall go.          [He reads the sonnet]
LONGAVILLE. To fright them hence with that dread penalty.
LONGAVILLE. To hear meekly, sir, and to laugh moderately; or, to
LONGAVILLE. What says Maria?
LONGAVILLE. You have a double tongue within your mask,
LONGAVILLE. You swore to that, Berowne, and to the rest.
LONGAVILLE. [Advancing] Dumain, thy love is far from charity,
LORD. He did, and with an absolute "Sir, not I,"
LORD. I'll send my prayers with him.
LORD. The son of Duncan,
LORDS. Our duties and the pledge.
LORDS. Thanks to your Majesty.
LORDS. What, my good lord?
Lear. A king, a king!
Lear. A plague upon you, murderers, traitors all!
Lear. Am I in France?
Lear. And here's another, whose warp'd looks proclaim
Lear. And my poor fool is hang'd! No, no, no life!
Lear. And the creature run from the cur? There thou mightst behold
Lear. Arraign her first. 'Tis Goneril. I here take my oath before
Lear. Ay, every inch a king!
Lear. Ay, so I think.
Lear. Be your tears wet? Yes, faith. I pray weep not.
Lear. Come, good Athenian.
Lear. Come, let's in all.
Lear. Did I not, fellow?
Lear. Do not abuse me.
Lear. Ha! Goneril with a white beard? They flatter'd me like a dog,
Lear. He's a good fellow, I can tell you that.
Lear. Howl, howl, howl, howl! O, you are men of stone.
Lear. I remember thine eyes well enough. Dost thou squiny at me?
Lear. I will die bravely, like a smug bridegroom. What!
Lear. I'll see that straight.
Lear. I'll see their trial first. Bring in their evidence.
Lear. If thou wilt weep my fortunes, take my eyes.
Lear. It shall be done; I will arraign them straight.
Lear. Let me wipe it first; it smells of mortality.
Lear. Make no noise, make no noise; draw the curtains.
Lear. Nature 's above art in that respect. There's your press
Lear. No rescue? What, a prisoner? I am even
Lear. No seconds? All myself?
Lear. No, no, no, no! Come, let's away to prison.
Lear. No, they cannot touch me for coming;
Lear. O, cry you mercy, sir.
Lear. O, ho, are you there with me? No eyes in your head, nor no
Lear. Pass.
Lear. Pray, do not mock me.
Lear. Prithee away!
Lear. Read.
Lear. She cannot deny it.
Lear. The little dogs and all,
Lear. Then let them anatomize Regan. See what breeds about her
Lear. Then there's life in't. Nay, an you get it, you shall get it
Lear. This feather stirs; she lives! If it be so,
Lear. This' a dull sight. Are you not Kent?
Lear. To have a thousand with red burning spits
Lear. Upon such sacrifices, my Cordelia,
Lear. What, art mad? A man may see how the world goes with no eyes.
Lear. When we are born, we cry that we are come
Lear. Where have I been? Where am I? Fair daylight,
Lear. With him!
Lear. You are a spirit, I know. When did you die?
Lear. You do me wrong to take me out o' th' grave.
Lear. You must bear with me.
Lear. You're welcome hither.
Lords, Attendants, etc.
Lords, Gentlemen, Officers, Soldiers, Murtherers, Attendants,
MACBETH, Thane of Glamis and Cawdor, a general in the King's army
MACBETH. 'Tis better thee without than he within.
MACBETH. 'Twas a rough fight.
MACBETH. A friend.
MACBETH. And Thane of Cawdor too. Went it not so?
MACBETH. As I descended?
MACBETH. Avaunt, and quit my sight! Let the earth hide thee!
MACBETH. Ay, and a bold one, that dare look on that
MACBETH. Ay, in the catalogue ye go for men,
MACBETH. Be innocent of the knowledge, dearest chuck,
MACBETH. Being unprepared,
MACBETH. Blood hath been shed ere now, i' the olden time,
MACBETH. Both of you
MACBETH. Bring forth men-children only,
MACBETH. Bring it after me.
MACBETH. Bring me no more reports; let them fly all!
MACBETH. Bring them before us.                 Exit Attendant.
MACBETH. But wherefore could not I pronounce "Amen"?
MACBETH. Call 'em, let me see 'em.
MACBETH. Came they not by you?
MACBETH. Can such things be,
MACBETH. Come, we'll to sleep. My strange and self-abuse
MACBETH. Cure her of that.
MACBETH. Fail not our feast.
MACBETH. Fled to England?
MACBETH. Geese, villain?
MACBETH. Give me your favor; my dull brain was wrought
MACBETH. Go bid thy mistress, when my drink is ready,
MACBETH. Go prick thy face and over-red thy fear,
MACBETH. Good repose the while.
MACBETH. Had I but died an hour before this chance,
MACBETH. Had I three ears, I'd hear thee.
MACBETH. Hark!
MACBETH. Hath he ask'd for me?
MACBETH. He does; he did appoint so.
MACBETH. Here had we now our country's honor roof'd,
MACBETH. Here's our chief guest.
MACBETH. How now, you secret, black, and midnight hags?
MACBETH. How say'st thou, that Macduff denies his person
MACBETH. I am settled and bend up
MACBETH. I conjure you, by that which you profess
MACBETH. I did so, and went further, which is now
MACBETH. I do forget.
MACBETH. I have done the deed. Didst thou not hear a noise?
MACBETH. I hear it by the way, but I will send.
MACBETH. I heard a voice cry, "Sleep no more!
MACBETH. I think not of them;
MACBETH. I will be satisfied! Deny me this,
MACBETH. I wish your horses swift and sure of foot,
MACBETH. I'll bring you to him.
MACBETH. I'll call upon you straight. Abide within.
MACBETH. I'll fight, 'til from my bones my flesh be hack'd.
MACBETH. I'll go no more.
MACBETH. I'll put it on.
MACBETH. If I stand here, I saw him.
MACBETH. If it were done when 'tis done, then 'twere well
MACBETH. If we should fail?
MACBETH. If you shall cleave to my consent, when 'tis,
MACBETH. Infected be the 'air whereon they ride,
MACBETH. Into the air, and what seem'd corporal melted
MACBETH. LENNOX. What's the matter?
MACBETH. Let's briefly put on manly readiness
MACBETH. My dearest love,
MACBETH. Not yet.
MACBETH. O, full of scorpions is my mind, dear wife!
MACBETH. O, yet I do repent me of my fury,
MACBETH. One cried, "God bless us!" and "Amen" the other,
MACBETH. Ourself will mingle with society
MACBETH. Prithee, peace!
MACBETH. Prithee, see there! Behold! Look! Lo! How say you?
MACBETH. Ride you this afternoon?
MACBETH. Saw you the weird sisters?
MACBETH. See, they encounter thee with their hearts' thanks.
MACBETH. So foul and fair a day I have not seen.
MACBETH. So is he mine, and in such bloody distance
MACBETH. So shall I, love, and so, I pray, be you.
MACBETH. Speak, if you can. What are you?
MACBETH. Stay, you imperfect speakers, tell me more.
MACBETH. Still it cried, "Sleep no more!" to all the house;
MACBETH. Sweet remembrancer!
MACBETH. Take thy face hence.                    Exit Servant.
MACBETH. Tell me, thou unknown power-
MACBETH. Thanks for that.
MACBETH. That will never be.
MACBETH. The Thane of Cawdor lives. Why do you dress me
MACBETH. The labor we delight in physics pain.
MACBETH. The rest is labor, which is not used for you.
MACBETH. The service and the loyalty lowe,
MACBETH. The table's full.
MACBETH. Then live, Macduff. What need I fear of thee?
MACBETH. There's comfort yet; they are assailable.
MACBETH. There's one did laugh in 's sleep, and one cried,
MACBETH. This is a sorry sight.           [Looks on his hands.
MACBETH. Thou are too like the spirit of Banquo Down!
MACBETH. Thou art the best o' the cut-throats! Yet he's good
MACBETH. Thou canst not say I did it; never shake
MACBETH. Throw physic to the dogs, I'll none of it.
MACBETH. Till then, enough. Come, friends.             Exeunt.
MACBETH. To know my deed, 'twere best not know myself.
MACBETH. Tomorrow, as he purposes.
MACBETH. Tonight we hold a solemn supper, sir,
MACBETH. We have scotch'd the snake, not kill'd it.
MACBETH. We hear our bloody cousins are bestow'd
MACBETH. We should have else desired your good advice,
MACBETH. We will proceed no further in this business:
MACBETH. We will speak further.
MACBETH. Well then, now
MACBETH. What is't you say? the life?
MACBETH. What man dare, I dare.
MACBETH. What news more?
MACBETH. Whate'er thou art, for thy good caution, thanks;
MACBETH. When?
MACBETH. Whence is that knocking?
MACBETH. Where?
MACBETH. Which of you have done this?
MACBETH. Who can be wise, amazed, temperate and furious,
MACBETH. You are, and do not know't.
MACBETH. You know your own degrees; sit down. At first
MACBETH. Your children shall be kings.
MACBETH. Your spirits shine through you. Within this hour at most
MACBETH. [Aside.] Come what come may,
MACBETH. [Aside.] Glamis, and Thane of Cawdor!
MACBETH. [Aside.] If chance will have me King, why, chance may
MACBETH. [Aside.] The Prince of Cumberland! That is a step
MACBETH. [Aside.] Then comes my fit again. I had else been perfect,
MACBETH. [Aside.] Time, thou anticipatest my dread exploits.
MACBETH. [Aside.] Two truths are told,
MACBETH. [Within.] Who's there' what, ho!
MACBETH. are they? Gone? Let this pernicious hour
MACBETH. morrow, both.
MACBETH. will have blood; they say blood will have blood.
MACDUFF I'll make so bold to call,
MACDUFF, Thane of Fife, a nobleman of Scotland
MACDUFF. And I must be from thence!
MACDUFF. And all my children?
MACDUFF. And so do I.
MACDUFF. Approach the chamber, and destroy your sight
MACDUFF. Be not a niggard of your speech. How goest?
MACDUFF. Bleed, bleed, poor country!
MACDUFF. Boundless intemperance
MACDUFF. Carried to Colmekill,
MACDUFF. Confusion now hath made his masterpiece.
MACDUFF. Fit to govern?
MACDUFF. He did command me to call timely on him;
MACDUFF. He has no children. All my pretty ones?
MACDUFF. He is already named, and gone to Scone
MACDUFF. How does my wife?
MACDUFF. Humh! I guess at it.
MACDUFF. I am not treacherous.
MACDUFF. I believe drink gave thee the lie last night.
MACDUFF. I have lost my hopes.
MACDUFF. I know this is a joyful trouble to you,
MACDUFF. I shall do so,
MACDUFF. If it be mine,
MACDUFF. Is the King stirring, worthy Thane?
MACDUFF. Is thy master stirring?
MACDUFF. Let our just censures
MACDUFF. Let us rather
MACDUFF. Look to the lady.
MACDUFF. My children too?
MACDUFF. My ever gentle cousin, welcome hither.
MACDUFF. No, cousin, I'll to Fife.
MACDUFF. Not in the legions
MACDUFF. O Scotland, Scotland!
MACDUFF. O gentle lady,
MACDUFF. O horror, horror, horror! Tongue nor heart
MACDUFF. O, I could play the woman with mine eyes
MACDUFF. O, relation
MACDUFF. See, who comes here?
MACDUFF. Stands Scotland where it did?
MACDUFF. Such welcome and unwelcome things at once
MACDUFF. The tyrant has not batter'd at their peace?
MACDUFF. They were suborn'd:
MACDUFF. This avarice
MACDUFF. Those that Macbeth hath slain.
MACDUFF. Was it so late, friend, ere you went to bed,
MACDUFF. Well, may you see things well done there.
MACDUFF. What concern they?
MACDUFF. What should he be?
MACDUFF. What three things does drink especially provoke?
MACDUFF. What's the disease he means?
MACDUFF. Wherefore did you so?
MACDUFF. Why, see you not?
MACDUFF. Your royal father's murther'd.
MALCOLM The worthy Thane of Ross.
MALCOLM, elder son of Duncan
MALCOLM. 'Tis call'd the evil:
MALCOLM. 'Tis his main hope;
MALCOLM. Be comforted.
MALCOLM. Be not offended;
MALCOLM. Be this the whetstone of your sword. Let grief
MALCOLM. Be't their comfort
MALCOLM. But I have none. The king-becoming graces,
MALCOLM. But Macbeth is.
MALCOLM. Cousins, I hope the days are near at hand
MALCOLM. Dispute it like a man.
MALCOLM. I grant him bloody,
MALCOLM. I know him now. Good God, betimes remove
MALCOLM. I thank you, Doctor.                     Exit Doctor.
MALCOLM. If such a one be fit to govern, speak.
MALCOLM. It is myself I mean, in whom I know
MALCOLM. Let every soldier hew him down a bough,
MALCOLM. Let us seek out some desolate shade and there
MALCOLM. Macduff, this noble passion,
MALCOLM. Merciful heaven!
MALCOLM. My countryman, but yet I know him not.
MALCOLM. My liege,
MALCOLM. Perchance even there where I did find my doubts.
MALCOLM. This is the sergeant
MALCOLM. This murtherous shaft that's shot
MALCOLM. This tune goes manly.
MALCOLM. Well, more anon. Comes the King forth, I pray you?
MALCOLM. What I believe, I'll wall;
MALCOLM. What will you do? Let's not consort with them.
MALCOLM. What's the newest grief?
MALCOLM. With this there grows
MALCOLM. [Aside to Donalbain.] Nor our strong sorrow
MALCOLM. [Aside to Donalbain.] Why do we hold our tongues,
MARCADE,   "     "       "  "     "      "    "
MARCADE. Even so; my tale is told.
MARCADE. God save you, madam!
MARCADE. I am sorry, madam; for the news I bring
MARIA,      "     "       "  "     "
MARIA. A mark marvellous well shot; for they both did hit it.
MARIA. At the twelvemonth's end
MARIA. Ay, or I would these hands might never part.
MARIA. Ay, our way to be gone.
MARIA. Come, come, you talk greasily; your lips grow foul.
MARIA. Dumain is mine, as sure as bark on tree.
MARIA. Dumain was at my service, and his sword.
MARIA. Folly in fools bears not so strong a note
MARIA. I know him, madam; at a marriage feast,
MARIA. Name it.
MARIA. No.
MARIA. Say you so? Fair lord-
MARIA. That last is Berowne, the merry mad-cap lord;
MARIA. The liker you; few taller are so young.
MARIA. They say so most that most his humours know.
MARIA. This, and these pearl, to me sent Longaville;
MARIA. Thou art an old love-monger, and speakest skilfully.
MARIA. Wide o' the bow-hand! I' faith, your hand is out.
MARIA. You Still wrangle with her, Boyet, and she strikes at the
MENTEITH nobleman of Scotland
MENTEITH. The English power is near, led on by Malcolm,
MENTEITH. The Wood of Birnam.
MENTEITH. We doubt it nothing.
MENTEITH. What does the tyrant?
MENTEITH. Who then shall blame
MESSENGER. Bless you, fair dame! I am not to you known,
MESSENGER. So please you, it is true; our Thane is coming.
MESSENGER. The King comes here tonight.
MOTH, page to Armado
MOTH.      If she be made of white and red,
MOTH.    Until the goose came out of door,
MOTH. A good l'envoy, ending in the goose; would you desire more?
MOTH. A great sign, sir, that he will look sad.
MOTH. A holy parcel of the fairest dames
MOTH. A man, if I live; and this, by, in, and without, upon the
MOTH. A message well sympathiz'd- a horse to be ambassador for an
MOTH. A woman, master.
MOTH. A wonder, master! here's a costard broken in a shin.
MOTH. All hail, the richest heauties on the earth!
MOTH. An excellent device! So, if any of the audience hiss, you may
MOTH. And I, tough signior, as an appertinent title to your old
MOTH. And out of heart, master; all those three I will prove.
MOTH. And that's great marvel, loving a light wench.
MOTH. And three times as much more, and yet nothing at all.
MOTH. As I have read, sir; and the best of them too.
MOTH. As swift as lead, sir.
MOTH. Ba, most silly sheep with a horn. You hear his learning.
MOTH. By a familiar demonstration of the working, my tough signior.
MOTH. By my penny of observation.
MOTH. By saying that a costard was broken in a shin.
MOTH. Come, you transgressing slave, away.
MOTH. Do the wise think them other? Is not l'envoy a salve?
MOTH. Forbear till this company be past.
MOTH. Hercules, master.
MOTH. Horns.
MOTH. How many is one thrice told?
MOTH. How mean you, sir? I pretty, and my saying apt? or I apt, and
MOTH. I am answer'd, sir.
MOTH. I will add the l'envoy. Say the moral again.
MOTH. I will praise an eel with the same praise.
MOTH. I will tell you sensibly.
MOTH. It was so, sir; for she had a green wit.
MOTH. Lend me your horn to make one, and I will whip about your
MOTH. Like the sequel, I. Signior Costard, adieu.
MOTH. Little pretty, because little. Wherefore apt?
MOTH. Marry, sir, you must send the ass upon the horse, for he is
MOTH. Master, let me take you a buttonhole lower. Do you not see
MOTH. Master, will you win your love with a French brawl?
MOTH. Minime, honest master; or rather, master, no.
MOTH. Most maculate thoughts, master, are mask'd under such
MOTH. My father's wit my mother's tongue assist me!
MOTH. Negligent student! learn her by heart.
MOTH. No, master; the hobby-horse is but a colt, and your love
MOTH. No, my complete master; but to jig off a tune at the tongue's
MOTH. No, no; O Lord, sir, no!
MOTH. No, sir; that were fast, and loose. Thou shalt to prison.
MOTH. Of all the four, or the three, or the two, or one of the
MOTH. Of the sea-water green, sir.
MOTH. Offer'd by a child to an old man; which is wit-old.
MOTH. Once to behold with your sun-beamed eyes- with your
MOTH. Out of your favours, heavenly spirits, vouchsafe
MOTH. Peace! the peal begins.
MOTH. Samson, master; he was a man of good carriage, great
MOTH. Speak you this in my praise, master?
MOTH. That an eel is quick.
MOTH. That ever turn'd their eyes to mortal views!
MOTH. The hobby-horse is forgot.
MOTH. The sheep; the other two concludes it: o, U.
MOTH. The third of the five vowels, if You repeat them; or the
MOTH. The world was very guilty of such a ballad some three ages
MOTH. Then I am sure you know how much the gross sum of deuce-ace
MOTH. They do not mark me, and that brings me out.
MOTH. Thrice-worthy gentleman!
MOTH. Thump, then, and I flee.                            Exit
MOTH. What shall some see?
MOTH. Which the base vulgar do call three.
MOTH. Why tender juvenal? Why tender juvenal?
MOTH. Why, sir, is this such a piece of study? Now here is three
MOTH. Yes, yes; he teaches boys the hornbook. What is a, b, spelt
MOTH. You are a gentleman and a gamester, sir.
MOTH. You are too swift, sir, to say so:
MOTH. You may do it in an hour, sir.
MOTH. [Aside to COSTARD] They have been at a great feast of
MOTH. [Aside] He speaks the mere contrary: crosses love not him.
MOTH. [Aside] To be whipt; and yet a better love than my master.
MOTH. [Aside] To prove you a cipher.
MURTHERER. 'Tis Banquo's then.
MURTHERER. Ay, my good lord. Safe in a ditch he bides,
MURTHERER. Most royal sir,
MURTHERER. My lord, his throat is cut; that I did for him.
Mess. News, madam.
NATHANIEL. A most singular and choice epithet.
NATHANIEL. A rare talent!
NATHANIEL. A title to Phoebe, to Luna, to the moon.
NATHANIEL. And thank you too; for society, saith the text, is the
NATHANIEL. Ay, sir, and very learned.
NATHANIEL. I praise God for you, sir. Your reasons at dinner have
NATHANIEL. Laus Deo, bone intelligo.
NATHANIEL. Marvellous well for the pen.
NATHANIEL. Perge, good Master Holofernes, perge, so it shall please
NATHANIEL. Sir, I praise the Lord for you, and so may my
NATHANIEL. Sir, he hath never fed of the dainties that are bred in
NATHANIEL. Sir, you have done this in the fear of God, very
NATHANIEL. Truly, Master Holofernes, the epithets are sweetly
NATHANIEL. Very reverent sport, truly; and done in the testimony of
NATHANIEL. Videsne quis venit?
NATHANIEL. When in the world I liv'd, I was the world's commander-
NATHANIEL. When in the world I liv'd, I was the world's commander;
NATHANIEL. Where will you find men worthy enough to present them?
NATHANIEL. [Reads] 'If love make me forsworn, how shall I swear to
OLD MAN. 'Tis said they eat each other.
OLD MAN. 'Tis unnatural,
OLD MAN. God's benison go with you and with those
OLD MAN. Threescore and ten I can remember well,
Old Man. 'Tis poor mad Tom.
Old Man. Alack, sir, he is mad!
Old Man. Ay, my lord.
Old Man. Fellow, where goest?
Old Man. How now? Who's there?
Old Man. I'll bring him the best 'parel that I have,
Old Man. Madman and beggar too.
Old Man. O my good lord,
Old Man. You cannot see your way.
Osw. A proclaim'd prize! Most happy!
Osw. Ay, madam.
Osw. I know not, lady.
Osw. I may not, madam.
Osw. I must needs after him, madam, with my letter.
Osw. I, madam?
Osw. Let go, slave, or thou diest!
Osw. Madam, I had rather-
Osw. Madam, here comes my lord.                          Exit.
Osw. Madam, with much ado.
Osw. Madam, within, but never man so chang'd.
Osw. My Lord of Gloucester hath convey'd him hence.
Osw. No, madam.
Osw. Out, dunghill!
Osw. Slave, thou hast slain me. Villain, take my purse.
Osw. Wherefore, bold peasant,
Osw. Would I could meet him, madam! I should show
PORTER. Faith, sir, we were carousing till the second cock; and
PORTER. Here's a knocking indeed! If a man were porter of Hell
PORTER. Marry, sir, nose-painting, sleep, and urine. Lechery, sir,
PORTER. That it did, sir, i' the very throat on me; but requited
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. 'A speaks not like a man of God his making.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. 'Fair' I give you back again; and 'welcome' I
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. 'Fair' in 'all hail' is foul, as I conceive.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. A time, methinks, too short
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Alas, poor Maccabaeus, how hath he been baited!
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. All pride is willing pride, and yours is so.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Amaz'd, my lord? Why looks your Highness sad?
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. And quick Berowne hath plighted faith to me.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. And were you well advis'd?
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. And will they so? The gallants shall be task'd,
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Anything like?
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Avaunt, perplexity! What shall we do
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Ay, in truth, my lord;
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Beauteous as ink- a good conclusion.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Berowne did swear himself out of all suit.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Boyet, prepare; I will away to-night.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. But what, but what, come they to visit us?
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. But, Katharine, what was sent to you from fair
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Come, to our pavilion. Boyet is dispos'd.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Dead, for my life!
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Did he not send you twain?
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Doth this man serve God?
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Else your memory is bad, going o'er it
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. From which lord to which lady?
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Gall! bitter.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Go, sickness as thou art!
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. God bless my ladies! Are they all in love,
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. God give thee joy of him! The noble lord
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Good Lord Boyet, my beauty, though but mean,
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Good wits will be jangling; but, gentles,
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Great thanks, great Pompey.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Here comes Boyet, and mirth is in his face.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Honey, and milk, and sugar; there is three.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. How blow? how blow? Speak to be understood.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. I thank my beauty I am fair that shoot,
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. I think no less. Dost thou not wish in heart
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. I understand you not; my griefs are double.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. I will be welcome then; conduct me thither.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. I will; and therefore keep it. Rosaline,
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. It was well done of you to take him at his
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Know you the man?
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Let it not be sweet.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Nay, my good lord, let me o'errule you now.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Nay, never paint me now;
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. No, they are free that gave these tokens to us.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. No, to the death, we will not move a foot,
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. None are so surely caught, when they are
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Not so, my lord; it is not so, I swear;
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Nothing but this! Yes, as much love in rhyme
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Now, what admittance, lord?
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. O poverty in wit, kingly-poor flout!
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. O, thy letter, thy letter! He's a good friend
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Only for praise; and praise we may afford
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Our Lady help my lord! He'll be forsworn.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Pardon me, sir, this jewel did she wear;
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Peace, peace, forbear;
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Prepare, I say. I thank you, gracious lords,
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Qualm, perhaps.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Saint Dennis to Saint Cupid! What are they
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. See, see, my beauty will be sav'd by merit.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Seventh sweet, adieu!
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Some merry mocking lord, belike; is't so?
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Speak, brave Hector; we are much delighted.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Stand aside, good Pompey.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Such short-liv'd wits do wither as they grow.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Sweet health and fair desires consort your
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Sweet hearts, we shall be rich ere we depart,
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. The conqueror is dismay'd. Proceed, good
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. The effect of my intent is to cross theirs.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. The fairest is confession.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. The thickest and the tallest.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Then wish me better; I will give you leave.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Therefore I do it; and I make no doubt
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. This field shall hold me, and so hold your vow:
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Thou fellow, a word.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Thou hast mistaken his letter. Come, lords,
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Thou shalt know her, fellow, by the rest that
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Thy news, Boyet?
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. To whom shouldst thou give it?
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Twenty adieus, my frozen Muscovits.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Was not that not Hector?
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Was that the King that spurr'd his horse so
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. We are wise girls to mock our lovers so.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. We arrest your word.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. We have receiv'd your letters, full of love;
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. We will read it, I swear.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Welcome, Marcade;
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Well bandied both; a set of wit well play'd.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Were my lord so, his ignorance were wise,
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. What plume of feathers is he that indited this
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. What's your will, sir? What's your will?
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. What, what? First praise me, and again say no?
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. When she shall challenge this, you will reject
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. When you then were here,
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Whip to our tents, as roes run o'er land.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Whoe'er 'a was, 'a show'd a mounting mind.
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Why, will shall break it; will, and nothing
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Will they return?
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. With what?
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. YOU Will the sooner that I were away,
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. You do the King my father too much wrong,
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. You nickname virtue: vice you should have
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Your reason?
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. [ To the King] Ay, sweet my lord, and so I take
ROSALINE, lady attending on the Princess
ROSALINE. Alack, let it blood.
ROSALINE. All the fool mine?
ROSALINE. And yours from long living!
ROSALINE. Another of these students at that time
ROSALINE. But shall we dance, if they desire us to't?
ROSALINE. But that you take what doth to you belong,
ROSALINE. By heaven, you did; and, to confirm it plain,
ROSALINE. Come on, then, wear the favours most in sight.
ROSALINE. Good madam, if by me you'll be advis'd,
ROSALINE. Great reason; for 'past cure is still past care.'
ROSALINE. Help, hold his brows! he'll swoon! Why look you pale?
ROSALINE. How many weary steps
ROSALINE. I would you knew.
ROSALINE. If we choose by the horns, yourself come not near.
ROSALINE. In private then.
ROSALINE. Indeed, I weigh not you; and therefore light.
ROSALINE. Is the fool sick?
ROSALINE. It is not so. Ask them how many inches
ROSALINE. It is not so; for how can this be true,
ROSALINE. Look what you do, you do it still i' th' dark.
ROSALINE. Madam, came nothing else along with that?
ROSALINE. Madam, he swore that he did hold me dear
ROSALINE. Madam, speak true. It is not so, my lord.
ROSALINE. Much in the letters; nothing in the praise.
ROSALINE. My face is but a moon, and clouded too.
ROSALINE. My physic says 'ay.'
ROSALINE. No point, with my knife.
ROSALINE. Nor shall not, if I do as I intend.
ROSALINE. Not one word more, my maids; break off, break off.
ROSALINE. O vain petitioner! beg a greater matter;
ROSALINE. Oft have I heard of you, my Lord Berowne,
ROSALINE. Only to part friends.
ROSALINE. Our ears vouchsafe it.
ROSALINE. Play, music, then. Nay, you must do it soon.
ROSALINE. Pray you, do my commendations;
ROSALINE. Sans 'sans,' I pray you.
ROSALINE. Shall I come upon thee with an old saying, that was a man
ROSALINE. Shall I teach you to know?
ROSALINE. Since you are strangers, and come here by chance,
ROSALINE. That was the way to make his godhead wax;
ROSALINE. The blood of youth burns not with such excess
ROSALINE. Then cannot we be bought; and so adieu-
ROSALINE. Then was Venus like her mother; for her father is but
ROSALINE. There, then, that vizard; that superfluous case
ROSALINE. They are worse fools to purchase mocking so.
ROSALINE. They were all in lamentable cases!
ROSALINE. This proves you wise and rich, for in my eye-
ROSALINE. Ware pencils, ho! Let me not die your debtor,
ROSALINE. We can afford no more at such a price.
ROSALINE. We did not quote them so.
ROSALINE. We need more light to find your meaning out.
ROSALINE. Well then, I am the shooter.
ROSALINE. Well, better wits have worn plain statute-caps.
ROSALINE. Well-liking wits they have; gross, gross; fat, fat.
ROSALINE. What would these strangers? Know their minds, Boyet.
ROSALINE. What would they, say they?
ROSALINE. What's your dark meaning, mouse, of this light word?
ROSALINE. Which of the vizards was it that you wore?
ROSALINE. Why, she that bears the bow.
ROSALINE. Why, that they have; and bid them so be gone.
ROSALINE. Why, that's the way to choke a gibing spirit,
ROSALINE. You must he purged too, your sins are rack'd;
ROSALINE. You took the moon at full; but now she's changed.
ROSALINE. You'll ne'er be friends with him: 'a kill'd your sister.
ROSALINE. Your absence only.
ROSALINE. [Singing]
ROSS, nobleman of Scotland
ROSS. 'Gainst nature still!
ROSS. Ah, good father,
ROSS. Alas, poor country,
ROSS. Alas, the day!
ROSS. And Duncan's horses-a thing most strange and certain-
ROSS. And for an earnest of a greater honor,
ROSS. Farewell, father.
ROSS. From Fife, great King,
ROSS. Gentlemen, rise; his Highness is well.
ROSS. God save the King!
ROSS. His absence, sir,
ROSS. I am so much a fool, should I stay longer,
ROSS. I have said.
ROSS. I'll see it done.
ROSS. Is't known who did this more than bloody deed?
ROSS. Let not your ears despise my tongue forever,
ROSS. My dearest coz,
ROSS. No mind that's honest
ROSS. No, they were well at peace when I did leave 'em.
ROSS. Sir, amen.
ROSS. That now
ROSS. That of an hour's age doth hiss the speaker;
ROSS. The King hath happily received, Macbeth,
ROSS. They did so, to the amazement of mine eyes
ROSS. Well too.
ROSS. Well, I will thither.
ROSS. What sights, my lord?
ROSS. When I came hither to transport the tidings,
ROSS. Where is Duncan's body?
ROSS. Why, well.
ROSS. Wife, children, servants, all
ROSS. Will you to Scone?
ROSS. Would I could answer
ROSS. You know not
ROSS. You must have patience, madam.
ROSS. Your castle is surprised; your wife and babes
Reg. 'Tis most convenient. Pray you go with us.
Reg. And false.
Reg. Be simple-answer'd, for we know the truth.
Reg. But are my brother's pow'rs set forth?
Reg. But have you never found my brother's way
Reg. Faith, he is posted hence on serious matter.
Reg. Fare thee well.                                   Exeunt.
Reg. Give me thy sword. A peasant stand up thus?
Reg. Go thrust him out at gates, and let him smell
Reg. Hang him instantly.
Reg. Hard, hard. O filthy traitor!
Reg. Himself in person there?
Reg. How now, you dog?
Reg. I am doubtful that you have been conjunct
Reg. I know your lady does not love her husband;
Reg. I never shall endure her. Dear my lord,
Reg. I speak in understanding. Y'are! I know't.
Reg. In my rights
Reg. Ingrateful fox! 'tis he.
Reg. Jesters do oft prove prophets.
Reg. Lady, I am not well; else I should answer
Reg. Lord Edmund spake not with your lord at home?
Reg. My sickness grows upon me.
Reg. Now, sweet lord,
Reg. One side will mock another. Th' other too!
Reg. Our sister's man is certainly miscarried.
Reg. Our troops set forth to-morrow. Stay with us.
Reg. Out, treacherous villain!
Reg. Sick, O, sick!
Reg. Sister, you'll go with us?
Reg. So white, and such a traitor!
Reg. That's as we list to grace him.
Reg. To whose hands have you sent the lunatic King?
Reg. What do you mean?
Reg. What might import my sister's letter to him?
Reg. Wherefore to Dover, sir?
Reg. Wherefore to Dover? Wast thou not charg'd at peril-
Reg. Why is this reason'd?
Reg. Why should she write to Edmund? Might not you
Reg. [to Edmund] Let the drum strike, and prove my title thine.
SECOND APPARITION. Be bloody, bold, and resolute: laugh to scorn
SECOND APPARITION. Macbeth! Macbeth! Macbeth!
SECOND MURTHERER. A light, a light!
SECOND MURTHERER. He needs not our mistrust, since he delivers
SECOND MURTHERER. I am one, my liege,
SECOND MURTHERER. Then 'tis he; the rest
SECOND MURTHERER. We have lost
SECOND MURTHERER. We shall, my lord,
SECOND WITCH. All hail, Macbeth, hail to thee, Thane of Cawdor!
SECOND WITCH. By the pricking of my thumbs,
SECOND WITCH. Cool it with a baboon's blood,
SECOND WITCH. Demand.
SECOND WITCH. Fillet of a fenny snake,
SECOND WITCH. Hail!
SECOND WITCH. I'll give thee a wind.
SECOND WITCH. Kil