








Exeunt
Exeunt
Exit ULYSSES
[One knocks]
[Rises]
Exit PANDARUS
[Strikes him]
[Digging]
[Flourish]
[Sound trumpet]
[Sound trumpet]
[They sit]
Exit TAMORA
[Trumpets cease]
[Also stabs]
Exit with CRESSIDA
[Kisses her again]
Exeunt severally
[He stabs TITUS]
[Hides the gold]
[Trumpets sound]
[Seizing LAVINIA]
[Stabs BASSIANUS]
[Takes AGAMEMNON aside]
Exit with the CHILD
[Giving them money]
[Offering him food]
Exeunt TROILUS and AENEAS
Exeunt all but TITUS
[Falls into the pit]
[They open the tomb]
Exeunt all but Lucius
Exeunt AGAMEMNON and NESTOR
Exeunt DIOMEDES and CALCHAS
Exeunt TROILUS and CRESSIDA
Exeunt. Sound trumpets
[He stabs the EMPRESS]
[LAVINIA kisses TITUS]
[He cuts their throats]
[Pointing to the NURSE]
Exeunt ACHILLES and PATROCLUS
Exeunt LUCIUS and MARCUS
Exit TIMON into his cave
[He cuts off TITUS' hand]
[Alarum. HECTOR and AJAX fight]
[He gives them the arrows]
Exeunt DEMETRIUS and CHIRON
Exeunt all but ULYSSES and NESTOR
[AJAX and HECTOR enter the lists]
[He writes his name with his
[SATURNINUS reads the letter]
[They put MUTIUS in the tomb]
seen to he full of warm water]
Exeunt, bearing the dead bodies
[She giveth SATURNINE a letter]
Drum beats. Exeunt all but TIMON
Exeunt TITUS' SONS, with ALARBUS
Exeunt the soldiers of BASSIANUS
[Embrace, and part several ways]
[The BROTHER and the SONS kneel]
Exeunt TROILUS, CRESSIDA, and DIOMEDES
Exeunt YOUNG LUCIUS and attendant
Exeunt the soldiers of SATURNINUS
[She takes the staff in her mouth
Exeunt LUCIUS, QUINTUS, and MARTIUS
[Throwing the water in their faces]
TAMORA, DEMETRIUS, CHIRON, and AARON
dishes at them, and drives them out]
Re-enter the LORDS
[A long flourish till they come down]
Enter AENEAS
Enter PANDARUS
Enter SERVILIUS
SCENE:
SCENE:
[ANDRONICUS lieth down, and the judges
[MARCUS strikes the dish with a knife]
and guides it with stumps, and writes]
Enter FLAVIUS, to TIMON
Exeunt TITUS, LAVINIA, and YOUNG LUCIUS
[They lay hold on CHIRON and DEMETRIUS]
Enter APEMANTUS
Exeunt BASSIANUS and MARCUS with LAVINIA
Exeunt GOTHS with AARON. Flourish within
PROLOGUE
AENEAS passes
ANTENOR passes
Enter AEMILIUS
Enter CLOWN
Enter LAVINIA
Enter the BANDITTI
PARIS passes
Re-enter TROILUS
[The SENATORS descend and open the gates]
staff, and guides it with feet and mouth]
Enter ACHILLES
Enter AENEAS
Enter PATROCLUS
Enter TROILUS
Enter a CAPTAIN
HELENUS passes
Re-enter Lucius
Re-enter MARCUS,
Re-enter ULYSSES
[A table brought in. The company sit down]
Enter PANDARUS
Enter THERSITES
Enter other SERVANTS
HECTOR passes
Re-enter CRESSIDA
Re-enter PANDARUS
[Takes the CHILD from the NURSE, and draws]
pass by him with the prisoners, and exeunt]
stumps the books which Lucius has let fall]
Enter FLAVIUS and two SENATORS
Enter TIMON from his cave
Enter TROILUS
Re-enter PANDARUS
Re-enter PATROCLUS
Re-enter TIMON and FLAVIUS
TROILUS passes
[Flourish. They go up into the Senate House]
AJAX, and CALCHAS
Enter AARON the Moor
Enter NUNTIUS AEMILIUS
Enter TIMON and attendants
Enter TIMON out of his cave
Enter TROILUS' BOY
Re-enter DIOMEDES
Re-enter TAMORA, with
[He stabs SATURNINUS. A great tumult. LUCIUS,
ALCIBIADES reads the Epitaph
Enter CASSANDRA, raving
Enter CHIRON and DEMETRIUS
Enter MARCUS
Re-enter AARON, with two
TROILUS AND CRESSIDA
[Pointing to the CHILD in an attendant's arms]
manner; and PHRYNIA and TIMANDRA
Common soldiers pass
DEMETRIUS throws the body
Enter ACHILLES and PATROCLUS
Enter MARCUS with LAVINIA
Enter TITUS, below
Enter a SOLDIER as a Messenger
Re-enter LUCIUS and MARCUS
Re-enter aloft the EMPEROR
[Sound trumpets and lay the coffin in the tomb]
and other Trojans, with attendants
Alarum. Enter AENEAS
Enter BASSIANUS and LAVINIA
Enter DIOMEDES, with CRESSIDA
[A ladder brought, which AARON is made to climb]
Enter TAMORA alone, to the Moor
Enter the other SENATORS, from TIMON
MARCUS, and their friends go up into the balcony]
Re-enter TITUS ANDRONICUS
Rome and the neighbourhood
Trumpets sounding, enter TITUS
Enter PARIS and HELEN, attended
Re-enter PANDARUS With CRESSIDA
attendants. LUCIUS, MARCUS, and the others descend
Enter Lucius with his weapon drawn
Troy and the Greek camp before it
of TITUS' sons, QUINTUS and MARTIUS
CHIRON, DEMETRIUS, and their attendants
Enter CHIRON and DEMETRIUS, braving
Enter NURSE, with a blackamoor CHILD
Enter the EMPEROR and AARON the Moor
Re-enter LUCIUS, QUINTUS, MARTIUS, and
Re-enter attendants with AARON
Sound trumpets. Enter SATURNINUS and
TITUS kills him. During the fray, exeunt SATURNINUS,
ACHILLES and PATROCLUS stand in their tent
Enter TIMON, in a rage, FLAMINIUS following
Flourish. Re-enter the EMPEROR, TAMORA
For, oh, love's bow
Not that it wounds,
Shoots buck and doe;
The shaft confounds
Wind horns. Enter MARCUS, from hunting
of BASSIANUS into the pit; then exeunt
Enter ALCIBIADES, with drum and fife, in warlike
Enter PUBLIUS, CAIUS, and VALENTINE
Enter, above, MARCUS ANDRONICUS and TRIBUNES;
O heart, heavy heart,
re-enter SATURNINUS, BASSIANUS, and attendants
DEMETRIUS and CHIRON, dragging off LAVINIA
Enter AGAMEMNON, ULYSSES, NESTOR, DIOMEDES,
Exeunt DEMETRIUS and CHIRON, bearing off the dead NURSE
Here a cry of hounds, and wind horns in a peal.
They knock and TITUS opens his study door, above
attendants; TITUS ANDRONICUS and Lucius
like a cook, placing the dishes, and LAVINIA
Enter HECTOR, armed; AENEAS, TROILUS, PARIS, HELENUS,
Enter MARCUS ANDRONICUS aloft, with the crown
Enter a MESSENGER, with two heads and a hand
Moor, and others,  as many as can be. Then set down
Sound drums and trumpets, and then enter MARTIUS
and MUTIUS, two of TITUS' sons; and then two men
and QUINTUS, two other sons; then TITUS ANDRONICUS;
and TITUS' SONS, LUCIUS, QUINTUS, and MARTIUS
and her two SONS, with the MOOR, at one door;
and then TAMORA the Queen of Goths, with her three
bearing a coffin covered with black; then LUCIUS
sons, ALARBUS, DEMETRIUS, and CHIRON, with AARON the
the coffin and TITUS speaks
with a knife, and LAVINIA, with a basin
Because thou canst not ease thy smart
By friendship nor by speaking.
So dying love lives still.
Sound a parley. The SENATORS appear upon the walls
Then enter SATURNINUS, TAMORA, BASSIANUS LAVINIA,
Why sigh'st thou without breaking?
Yet that which seems the wound to kill
Enter AENEAS, PARIS, ANTENOR, DEIPHOBUS, and DIOMEDES
Exit
Exit
angry?
be won at last;
gait.'
kind,
with TAMORA and her two Sons, and AARON the Moor
with him,
Enter a GOTH, leading AARON with his CHILD in his arms
Trojan commanders:
'Ad Jovem' that's for you; here 'Ad Apollinem.'
'Ad Martem' that's for myself.
'As false as Cressid.'
'As true as Troilus' shall crown up the verse
'Cause they take vengeance of such kind of men.
'Deliver Helen, and all damage else-
'For I must bear thee to a trusty Goth,
'Great Hector's sister did Achilles win;
'Here lies a wretched corse, of wretched soul bereft;
'Let not your sorrow die, though I am dead.'
'Peace, tawny slave, half me and half thy dam!
'Tis Nestor right. Now play him me, Patroclus,
'Tis certain, greatness, once fall'n out with fortune,
'Tis dry enough-will with great speed of judgment,
'Tis he the common people love so much;
'Tis honour with most lands to be at odds;
'Tis in few words, but spacious in effect:
'Tis known, Achilles, that you are in love
'Tis like a chime a-mending; with terms unsquar'd,
'Tis necessary he should die:
'Tis not an hour since I left them there.
'Tis not the difference of a year or two
'Tis pity they should take him for a stag.
'Tis policy and stratagem must do
'Tis said he holds you well; and will be led
'Tis thou and those that have dishonoured me.
'Tis thou that rig'st the bark and plough'st the foam,
'Tis thought you have a goodly gift in horning,
'Tis true, 'tis true: witness my knife's sharp point.
'Tis well, Lavinia, that thou hast no hands;
'Tis you must dig with mattock and with spade,
'To Saturn,' Caius- not to Saturnine:
'Twas her two sons that murdered Bassianus;
'Twas not my purpose thus to beg a kiss.
'Twere better she were kiss'd in general.
'Twill fill your stomachs; please you eat of it.
'Twill vex thy soul to hear what I shall speak;
'Twixt his stretch'd footing and the scaffoldage-
'Twixt natural son and sire! thou bright defiler
'Twixt right and wrong; for pleasure and revenge
'We have seen better days.' Let each take some.
'hereafter' the kneading, the making of the cake, the heating
'pluck't out and give it him.' But there was such laughing! and
'twould out'; and so there is; but it lies as coldly in him as
A Grecian and his sword, if he do set
A Grecian's life hath sunk; for every scruple
A Prologue arm'd, but not in confidence
A Roman now adopted happily,
A Troyan hath been slain; since she could speak,
A barren detested vale you see it is:
A chilling sweat o'er-runs my trembling joints;
A cousin-german to great Priam's seed;
A craftier Tereus, cousin, hast thou met,
A dedicated beggar to the air,
A deed of death done on the innocent
A father and a friend to thee and Rome.
A form of strangeness as we pass along.
A goodly humour, is it not, my lords?
A gory emulation 'twixt us twain:
A great-siz'd monster of ingratitudes.
A halter, soldiers! Hang him on this tree,
A joyful issue.
A labour sav'd!
A lack of Timon's aid, hath sense withal
A little proudly, and great deal misprizing
A long-tongu'd babbling gossip? No, lords, no.
A lord of Troyan blood, nephew to Hector;
A loving nurse, a mother to his youth.
A madman so long, now a fool. What, think'st
A moderate table.
A moiety of that mass of moan to come.
A mother's tears in passion for her son;
A nobler man, a braver warrior,
A pair of cursed hell-hounds and their dam.
A pattern, precedent, and lively warrant
A poor unmanly melancholy sprung
A pox of wrinkles!
A precious ring that lightens all this hole,
A priest, there off'ring to it his own heart.                Exit
A prince called Hector-Priam is his father-
A second hope as fairly built as Hector.
A sight to vex the father's soul withal.
A slave whose gall coins slanders like a mint,
A special party, have by common voice
A speedier course than ling'ring languishment
A spur to valiant and magnanimous deeds,
A stirring dwarf we do allowance give
A stone by thee.                     [Throws a stone at him]
A stone is silent and offendeth not,
A stone is soft as wax: tribunes more hard than stones.
A stranger to those most imperial looks
A thousand complete courses of the sun!
A thousand fiends, a thousand hissing snakes,
A valiant son-in-law thou shalt enjoy;
A very excellent piece of villainy.
A very fatal place it seems to me.
A very horse that has he knows not what!
A victor shall be known? Will you the knights
A woman impudent and mannish grown
Aaron and thou look down into this den,
Aaron will have his soul black like his face.           Exit
Above their quantity.
Abroad? Why, then, women are more valiant,
Accompanied but with a barbarous Moor,
Accurs'd the offspring of so foul a fiend!
Accursed if the fault be prov'd in them-
Accuse some innocent, and forswear myself;
Achievement is command; ungain'd, beseech.
Achievements, plots, orders, preventions,
Achilles bids you welcome.
Achilles is a fool to be commanded of Agamemnon; Thersites is a
Achilles shall have word of this intent;
Achilles.
Achilles; Achilles is my lord; I am Patroclus' knower; and
Achilles?
Acts of black night, abominable deeds,
Ad manes fratrum sacrifice his flesh
Add to my clamours. Let us pay betimes
Advanc'd above pale envy's threat'ning reach.
Against our rampir'd gates and they shall ope,
Against the walls of Athens.
Agamemnon and all Greece.
Agree these deeds with that proud brag of thine
Ah! now no more will I control thy griefs.
Ah, Rome! Well, well, I made thee miserable
Ah, boy, Cornelia never with more care
Ah, now thou turn'st away thy face for shame!
Ah, sirrah!
Ah, wherefore dost thou urge the name of hands?
Ajax employ'd plucks down Achilles' plumes.
Ajax is grown self-will'd and bears his head
Ajax renown'd. O heavens, what some men do,
Ajax to invite the most valorous Hector to come unarm'd to my
Alarbus goes to rest, and we survive
Alas the day, how loath you are to offend daylight! An 'twere
Alas! you know I am no vaunter, I;
Alas, a crimson river of warm blood,
Alas, a kind of godly jealousy,
Alas, sweet aunt, I know not what you mean.
Alive and dead; and for their brethren slain
All I kept were knaves, to serve in meat to villains.
All dues be rend'red to their owners. Now,
All fears attending on so dire a project.
All feasts, societies, and throngs of men!
All on a heap, like to a slaughtered lamb,
All our abilities, gifts, natures, shapes,
All that you meet are thieves. To Athens go,
All the argument is a whore and a cuckold-a good quarrel to draw
All the commerce that you have had with Troy
All time of pause, rudely beguiles our lips
Allow'd with absolute power, and thy good name
Almost impregnable, his old ears deaf,
Although I know you'll swear, terribly swear,
Although my seal be stamped in his face.
Although my will distaste what it elected,
Although particular, shall give a scantling
Although she lave them hourly in the flood.
Although, my lord, I know my noble aunt
Ambitiously for rule and empery,
Amen.
Amen.                                                   Exit
Amidst the other, whose med'cinable eye
Among the nettles at the elder-tree
Among the rout of nations, I will make thee
Amongst the fair-fac'd breeders of our clime;
An act that very chance doth throw upon him-
An after-dinner's breath.
An ag'd interpreter, though young in days;
An appetite that I am sick withal,
An emperor in Rome thus overborne,
An honour in him which buys out his fault-
An idiot holds his bauble for a god,
An if thy stumps will let thee play the scribe.
And 'tis this fever that keeps Troy on foot,
And Antenorides, with massy staples
And Cupid grant all tongue-tied maidens here,
And I am sent to be reveng'd on him.
And I have read that Hecuba of Troy
And I myself see not the bottom of it.
And I will be revenged on them all.
And I will fill them with prophetic tears.
And I will give a taste thereof forthwith
And I will see thee.
And I will use the olive, with my sword;
And I'll beweep these comforts, worthy senators.
And Jove forbid there should be done amongst us
And add more coals to Cancer when he burns
And all my powers do their bestowing lose,
And all my study be to no effect?
And all the Greekish girls shall tripping sing
And almost broke my heart with extreme laughter.
And appetite, an universal wolf,
And apprehended here immediately
And arm the minds of infants to exclaims.
And as I earnestly did fix mine eye
And at my lovely Tamora's entreats,
And at my suit, sweet, pardon what is past.
And at thy feet I kneel, with tears of joy
And at thy mercy shall they stoop and kneel,
And basely put it up without revenge?
And batters down himself. What should I say?
And be aveng'd on cursed Tamora.
And be in debt to none- yet, more to move you,
And be my heart an ever-burning hell!
And be no turncoats. Yet may your pains six months
And be received for the Emperor's heir
And bear it from me to the Emperess.
And being dead, let birds on her take pity.           Exeunt
And better would it fit Achilles much
And bid him come and banquet at thy house;
And bid that strumpet, your unhallowed dam,
And bid the cheek be ready with a blush
And bid the owners quench them with their tears.
And bid thee bear his pretty tales in mind
And bids thee christen it with thy dagger's point.
And blazoning our unjustice every where?
And blind oblivion swallow'd cities up,
And bootless unto them.
And borne her cleanly by the keeper's nose?
And bow this feeble ruin to the earth;
And break my utt'rance, even in the time
And bring Aeneas and the Grecian with you.
And bring our Emperor gently in thy hand,
And bring us Cressid hither. Calchas shall have
And brought to yoke the enemies of Rome.
And buckle in a waist most fathomless
And buried one and twenty valiant sons,
And bury all thy fear in my devices.
And buzz lamenting doings in the air!
And by her presence still renew his sorrows.
And by his side his fruit of bastardy.
And by still practice learn to know thy meaning.
And by the hazard of the spotted die
And by the way possess thee what she is.
And cabin in a cave, and bring you up
And call it excellent. Thou wast told thus;
And call them shames, which are, indeed, nought else
And calls herself Revenge, and thinks me mad.
And cannot brook competitors in love?
And cannot passionate our tenfold grief
And case thy reputation in thy tent,
And chance it as it may.
And cherish factions. 'Tis inferr'd to us
And choice, being mutual act of all our souls,
And cleave to no revenge but Lucius.
And climb the highest promontory top.
And come, I will go get a leaf of brass,
And comfort you, my master.
And corresponsive and fulfilling bolts,
And cried 'Inestimable!' -why do you now
And cull their flower, Ajax shall cope the best.
And curtain'd with a counsel-keeping cave-
And cut her hands, and trimm'd her as thou sawest.
And cut your trusters' throats. Bound servants, steal:
And danger, like an ague, subtly taints
And dare avow her beauty and her worth
And daughters of the game.                       [Trumpet within]
And day by day I'll do this heavy task,
And did him service. He touch'd the ports desir'd;
And ditches grave you all!
And do a deed that never fortune did-
And do not break into these deep extremes.
And drave great Mars to faction.
And dreaming night will hide our joys no longer,
And drown themselves in riot. Itches, blains,
And entrails feed the sacrificing fire,
And every Greek of mettle, let him know
And fame in time to come canonize us;
And fame's eternal date, for virtue's praise!
And farewell goes out sighing. O, let not virtue seek
And faster bound to Aaron's charming eyes
And father of that chaste dishonoured dame,
And fear not, lords- and you, Lavinia.
And feed his humour kindly as we may
And feed on curds and whey, and suck the goat,
And fell so roundly to a large confession
And fence not Athens! Matrons, turn incontinent.
And find out murderers in their guilty caves;
And find the welcome of a noble foe.
And flies fled under shade-why, then the thing of courage
And flowing o'er with arts and exercise.
And fly like chidden Mercury from Jove,
And fly with me to Cressid!
And for an old aunt whom the Greeks held captive
And for an onset, Titus, to advance
And for my tidings gave me twenty kisses.
And for these bitter tears, which now you see
And force you to commiseration.
And from her bosom took the enemy's point,
And from your womb where you imprisoned were
And give as soft attachment to thy senses
And give him burial in his father's grave.
And give him half; and, for thy vigour,
And give me swift transportance to these fields
And give the King this fatal-plotted scroll.
And give them title, knee, and approbation,
And give to dust that is a little gilt
And go along with him?
And grant, as Timon grows, his hate may grow
And gratulate his safe return to Rome,
And great Troy shrinking.
And had as ample power as I have will,
And had you not by wondrous fortune come,
And hale him hither.
And hang himself. I pray you do my greeting.
And hark what discord follows! Each thing melts
And hast a thing within thee called conscience,
And haste her to the purpose.
And have a thousand times more cause than he
And he hath cut those pretty fingers off
And he shall buy my daughter; and her presence
And he whose pious breath seeks to convert you-
And he's as tetchy to be woo'd to woo
And help to set a head on headless Rome.
And her pale fire she snatches from the sun;
And her to whom my thoughts are humbled all,
And here I swear by all the Roman gods-
And here in sight of Rome, to Saturnine,
And here my brother, weeping at my woes.
And here's a lord-come knights from east to west
And here's the base fruit of her burning lust.
And here's thy hand, in scorn to thee sent back-
And here, to do you service, am become
And hid the gold within that letter mention'd,
And hither hale that misbelieving Moor
And how by this their child shall be advanc'd,
And how desirous of our sight they are.
And if he stand on hostage for his safety,
And if it be so far beyond his health,
And if thy sons were ever dear to thee,
And if ye love me, as I think you do,
And in a tedious sampler sew'd her mind;
And in my vantbrace put this wither'd brawn,
And in such indexes, although small pricks
And in that paste let their vile heads be bak'd.
And in the Capitol and Senate's right,
And in the fountain shall we gaze so long,
And in the sacred Pantheon her espouse.
And in their ears tell them my dreadful name-
And in this hand the other will I bear.
And is not careful what they mean thereby,
And it were better parch in Afric sun
And just against thy heart make thou a hole,
And keep eternal spring-time on thy face,
And keeps the oath which by that god he swears,
And kneel, sweet boy, the Roman Hector's hope;
And last eat up himself. Great Agamemnon,
And last so long enough!
And lay it by. The angry northern wind
And leave me to this miserable death.
And leave you hindmost;
And leave you not a man-of-war unsearch'd.
And led my country's strength successfully,
And let confusion live. Plagues incident to men,
And let her joy her raven-coloured love;
And let him take't at worst; for their knives care not,
And let his very breath whom thou'lt observe
And let it be mine honour, good my lord,
And let me say, that never wept before,
And let my gravestone be your oracle.
And let my spleenful sons this trull deflower.          Exit
And let the Emperor dandle him for his own.
And let the foes quietly cut their throats,
And let the unscarr'd braggarts of the war
And like a strutting player whose conceit
And look how many Grecian tents do stand
And lulls him whilst she playeth on her back,
And made a brine-pit with our bitter tears?
And made us speak like friends. This man was riding
And maintain such a quarrel openly?
And mak'st them kiss! that speak'st with every tongue
And make a chequer'd shadow on the ground;
And make a clear way to the gods.
And make a mutual closure of our house.
And make a sop of all this solid globe;
And make his dead trunk pillow to our lust.
And make his wrongs his outsides,
And make proud Saturnine and his emperess
And make the silken strings delight to kiss them,
And make them blind with tributary tears.
And make them know what 'tis to let a queen
And make two pasties of your shameful heads;
And manners, to intrude where I am grac'd,
And many unfrequented plots there are
And mar men's spurring. Crack the lawyer's voice,
And may diseases lick up their false bloods!
And may that soldier a mere recreant prove
And may, for aught thou knowest, affected be.
And might not gain so great a happiness
And mighty states characterless are grated
And mince it sans remorse. Swear against abjects;
And minister in their steads. To general filths
And morsels unctuous, greases his pure mind,
And mount her pitch whom thou in triumph long.
And must advise the Emperor for his good.
And name thee in election for the empire
And ne'er prefer his injuries to his heart,
And never after to inherit it.
And never suffers matter of the world
And never whilst I live deceive men so;
And no one else but the delivered Empress.
And none but tyrants use it cruelly.
And not a man for being simply man
And not as our confusion, all thy powers
And not believes himself. Down with the nose,
And not endure all threats? Sleep upon't,
And not relent, or not compassion him?
And nothing brings me all things. Go, live still;
And nothing grieves me heartily indeed
And notwithstanding all this loss of blood-
And now I find it; therefore bind them sure,
And now at last, laden with honour's spoils,
And now be it known to you my full intent:
And now he writes to heaven for his redress.
And now like Nilus it disdaineth bounds.
And now prepare your throats. Lavinia, come,
And now, sweet Emperor, be blithe again,
And now, young lords, was't not a happy star
And of our Athens, thine and ours, to take
And of the paste a coffin I will rear,
And on his grave-stone this insculpture, which
And on the cause and question now in hand
And on the ragged stones beat forth our souls,
And on their skins, as on the bark of trees,
And on them shalt thou ease thy angry heart.
And op'd their arms to embrace me as a friend.
And overlooks the highest-peering hills,
And parted thus you and your argument.
And pierce the inmost centre of the earth;
And pill by law. Maid, to thy master's bed:
And plead my passions for Lavinia's love.
And poor in worth! Now shall we see to-morrow-
And posts, like the commandment of a king,
And prompt me that my tongue may utter forth
And pull her out of Acheron by the heels.
And pursy insolence shall break his wind
And rape, I fear, was root of thy annoy.
And rather comfort his distressed plight
And raze their faction and their family,
And rear'd aloft the bloody battle-axe,
And reason flies the object of all harm.
And revel in Lavinia's treasury.
And ripen justice in this commonweal.
And rouse the Prince, and ring a hunter's peal,
And ruminate himself-shall he be worshipp'd
And sanctify the numbers.
And say 'Long live our Emperor Saturnine!'
And say 'This man's a flatterer'? If one be,
And say I am Revenge, sent from below
And say in thunder 'Achilles go to him.'
And scants us with a single famish'd kiss,
And secretly to greet the Empress' friends.
And see a fearful sight of blood and death.
And see his shipwreck and his commonweal's.
And see the ambush of our friends be strong;
And see their blood or die with this reproach.
And see them ready against their mother comes.
And send forth us to make their sorrowed render,
And send it to the King: he for the same
And sends them weapons wrapp'd about with lines
And sent her enemies unto the grave.
And set abroad new business for you all?
And set them upright at their dear friends' door
And shall she carry this unto her grave?
And she shall file our engines with advice
And she whom mighty kingdoms curtsy to,
And shortly must I fell it. Tell my friends,
And shows the ragged entrails of this pit;
And simpler than the infancy of truth.
And skilless as unpractis'd infancy.
And skip when thou point'st out? Will the cold brook,
And slain in fight many of your enemies;
And slain the noblest prisoner of the Goths.
And sleep in peace, slain in your country's wars.
And so I do, and with his gifts present
And so I leave you both-  [Aside]  like bloody villains.
And so I love and honour thee and thine,
And so beguile thy sorrow, till the heavens
And so in this, to bear me down with braves.
And so let's leave her to her silent walks.
And so repose, sweet gold, for their unrest
And so scape hanging. Trust not the physician;
And so supplant you for ingratitude,
And so, farewell and thrive.
And sometimes we are devils to ourselves,
And speaks not to himself but with a pride
And stain the sun with fog, as sometime clouds
And stands alone.
And still it might, and yet it may again,
And stop their mouths if they begin to cry.             Exit
And strain what other means is left unto us
And strike her home by force if not by words.
And substituted in the place of mine,
And suffer not dishonour to approach
And swear unto my soul to right your wrongs.
And swear with me- as, with the woeful fere
And sweetly felt it.
And take down th' int'rest into their glutt'nous maws.
And take my ministers along with me.
And take our goodly aged men by th' beards,
And talk of them when he was dead and gone.
And tapers burn so bright, and everything
And tarry with him till I turn again.
And tears will quickly melt thy life away.
And tell them both the circumstance of all,
And tell them that, to ease them of their griefs,
And temper him with all the art I have,
And that great minds, of partial indulgence
And that it comes from old Andronicus,
And that my sword upon thee shall approve,
And that shall be the ransom for their fault.
And that unbodied figure of the thought
And that which looks like pride is courtesy.
And that you'll say ere half an hour pass.
And the ass more captain than the lion; the fellow
And the deep-drawing barks do there disgorge
And the great Hector's sword had lack'd a master,
And the rude son should strike his father dead;
And the will dotes that is attributive
And thee after, when thou hast conquer'd!
And then I'll come and be thy waggoner
And then they call'd me foul adulteress,
And then to speak.
And then you would have tarried. Hark! there's one up.
And then, forsooth, the faint defects of age
And therefore bind them, gentle Publius-
And therefore is the glorious planet Sol
And therefore mine shall save my brothers' lives.
And they have nurs'd this woe in feeding life;
And they have serv'd me to effectless use.
And they have wish'd that Lucius were their emperor.
And they it were that ravished our sister.
And they shall be immediately deliver'd.
And they, 'twas they, that did her all this wrong.
And think perchance they'll sell; if not, the lustre
And this is Troyan; the sinews of this leg
And this neglection of degree it is
And this shall all be buried in my death,
And this the banquet she shall surfeit on;
And thou and I sit round about some fountain,
And thou redeem'st thyself. But all, save thee,
And thou shalt read when mine begin to dazzle.        Exeunt
And threat me I shall never come to bliss
And to be doubted that your Moor and you
And to his hand when I deliver her,
And to make whores a bawd. Hold up, you sluts,
And to my fortunes and the people's favour
And to our sport.  [To TAMORA]  Madam, now shall ye see
And to the field goes he; where every flower
And to the love and favour of my country
And to this purpose speak: Kings, princes, lords!
And treats of Tereus' treason and his rape;
And tribunes with their tongues doom men to death.
And triumphs over chance in honour's bed.
And tumble me into some loathsome pit,
And turn'd crown'd kings to merchants.
And under-honest, in self-assumption greater
And underwrite in an observing kind
And vengeance on the traitor Saturnine.
And violenteth in a sense as strong
And virtue stoops and trembles at her frown.
And wake the Emperor and his lovely bride,
And wand'red hither to an obscure plot,
And wash their hands in Bassianus' blood.
And we will all subscribe to thy advice.
And we will come. March away.                         Exeunt
And we, poor mates, stand on the dying deck,
And welcome all. Although the cheer be poor,
And were they but attired in grave weeds,
And what hath mass or matter by itself
And what he is that now is leapt into it.
And what is written shall be executed.
And what not done, that thou hast cause to rue,
And when I told the Empress of this sport,
And when fair Cressid comes into my thoughts-
And when he sleeps will she do what she list.
And when they show'd me this abhorred pit,
And when thou find'st a man that's like thyself,
And when thou hast given it to the Emperor,
And when thy car is loaden with their heads,
And where's our lesson, then? Boy, what say you?
And wherein Rome hath done you any scath,
And while the babbling echo mocks the hounds,
And whilst I at a banquet hold him sure,
And whirl along with thee about the globes.
And who should find them but the Empress' villain?
And wide unclasp the tables of their thoughts
And will create thee Emperess of Rome.
And will o'er reach them in their own devices,
And will revolt from me to succour him.
And will to-morrow with his trumpet call
And will with deeds requite thy gentleness;
And wilt thou have a reason for this coil?
And with a gad of steel will write these words,
And with an accent tun'd in self-same key
And with his arms out-stretch'd, as he would fly,
And with loud 'larums welcome them to Rome.
And with my sword I'll keep this door safe.
And with our swords, upon a pile of wood,
And with ridiculous and awkward action-
And with such sober and unnoted passion
And with that painted hope braves your mightiness;
And with these boys mine honour thou hast wounded.
And with thine own hands kill me in this place!
And with this hateful liquor temper it;
And with thy shame thy father's sorrow die!
And with thy weapon nothing dar'st perform.
And with your blood and it I'll make a paste;
And wonder greatly that man's face can fold
And wonder of good deeds evilly bestow'd!
And work confusion on his enemies.
And worse than Progne I will be reveng'd.
And would not, but in fury, fright my youth;
And would usurp upon my wat'ry eyes
And would, as I shall pity, I could help!
And write in thee the figures of their love,
And yet dear too, because I bought mine own.
And yet detested life not shrink thereat!
And yet, good faith, I wish'd myself a man,
And you as well to keep her that defend her,
And you must needs bestow her funeral;
And you recount your sorrows to a stone.
And you the Empress! But we worldly men
And your great love to me restrains you thus.
And, Lavinia, thou shalt be employ'd in this;
And, Romans, fight for freedom in your choice.
And, being credulous in this mad thought,
And, by device, let blockish Ajax draw
And, countrymen, my loving followers,
And, for I know your reverend ages love
And, for he understands you are in arms,
And, from the place where you behold us pleading,
And, having gilt the ocean with his beams,
And, if one arm's embracement will content thee,
And, in the publication, make no strain
And, kinsmen, then we may go pipe for justice.
And, lest thou shouldst detect him, cut thy tongue.
And, like a dew-drop from the lion's mane,
And, like as there were husbandry in war,
And, madam, if my uncle Marcus go,
And, meeting him, will tell him that my lady
And, sith there's no justice in earth nor hell,
And, when I had it, drew myself apart
And, with a palsy-fumbling on his gorget,
And, would you represent our queen aright,
And- after conflict such as was suppos'd
Andronicus, stain not thy tomb with blood.
Andronicus, would thou were shipp'd to hell
Answer I must, and shall do with my life.
Answer mere nature- bid them flatter thee.
Antenor! The young prince will go mad. A plague upon Antenor! I
Anticipating time with starting courage.
Apollo, Pallas, Jove, or Mercury,
Approach the fold and cull th' infected forth,
Approve their truth by Troilus, when their rhymes,
Are ceremonious courtiers.
Are dogg'd with two strange followers.
Are drown'd and lost in his calamities.
Are like to rot untasted. Go and tell him
Are made thy chief afflictions. Alas, kind lord!
Are meet for plucking up, and therefore mine.
Are not inherited. Then, dear countryman,
Are not within the leaf of pity writ,
Are pleas'd to breed out your inheritors.
Are singled forth to try thy experiments.
Are we undone, cast off, nothing remaining?
Are you so desperate grown to threat your friends?
Argus, all eyes and no sight.
Arming to answer in a night alarm.'
As 'twere a knell unto our master's fortune,
As 'twere from forth us all, a man distill'd
As Agamemnon and the hand of Greece
As Cerberus at the Thracian poet's feet.
As I am confident and kind to thee.
As Priam is in Ilion.
As air, as water, wind, or sandy earth,
As amply titled as Achilles is,
As any mortal body hearing it
As banks of Libya-though, Apollo knows,
As beasts and birds and fishes.
As begging hermits in their holy prayers.
As bending angels; that's their fame in peace.
As broad Achilles; keeps his tent like him;
As common bruit doth put it.
As done. Perseverance, dear my lord,
As doth a battle, when they charge on heaps
As far as toucheth my particular,
As far from help as Limbo is from bliss!
As fast as they are made, forgot as soon
As fears and reasons? Fie, for godly shame!
As feel in his own fall; for men, like butterflies,
As flowers with frost, or grass beat down with storms.
As for her Greeks and Troyans suff'red death.
As for my sons, say I account of them
As for that ravenous tiger, Tamora,
As for thee, boy, go, get thee from my sight;
As fox to lamb, or wolf to heifer's calf,
As fresh as morning dew distill'd on flowers?
As from a conduit with three issuing spouts-
As frozen water to a starved snake.
As full as thy report?
As green as Ajax' and your brain so temper'd,
As half thy love? Why dost not speak to me?
As hateful as Cocytus' misty mouth.
As he being drest to some oration.'
As he regards his aged father's life.
As heart can think or courage execute.
As honour, loss of time, travail, expense,
As if a double hunt were heard at once,
As if he had but prov'd an argument.
As if he were forgot; and, Princes all,
As if his foot were on brave Hector's breast,
As if we should forget we had no hands,
As in the prizer. 'Tis mad idolatry
As infants' empty of all thought!
As infinite as imminent! But I'll be true.
As iron to adamant, as earth to th' centre-
As it is known she is-these moral laws
As jewels purchas'd at an easy price;
As kill a man, or else devise his death;
As knots, by the conflux of meeting sap,
As lamely as their manners. Lust and liberty,
As many farewells as be stars in heaven,
As may be in the world. His youth in flood,
As misers do by beggars-neither gave to me
As much as ever Coriolanus did.
As new into the world, strange, unacquainted-
As perfectly is ours as yours, my lord;
As punishment for his most wicked life.          Exeunt some
As rous'd with rage, with rage doth sympathise,
As shall to thee blot out what wrongs were theirs
As she is stubborn-chaste against all suit.
As slept within the shadow of your power,
As smiles upon the forehead of this action
As stuff for these two to make paradoxes.
As sun to day, as turtle to her mate,
As sure a card as ever won the set;
As tediously as hell, but flies the grasps of love
As that which causeth it. How can I moderate it?
As the sweet Troilus. O you gods divine,
As they have often given. Here is Ulysses.
As thieves to keepers.
As thou unworthy to be call'd her servant.
As true a dog as ever fought at head.
As true as steel, as plantage to the moon,
As true thou tell'st me, when I say I love her;
As truth's authentic author to be cited,
As unrelenting flint to drops of rain.
As venerable Nestor, hatch'd in silver,
As wedged with a sigh, would rive in twain,
As well my undertakings as your counsels;
As well wherein 'tis precious of itself
As when his virtues shining upon others
As when the golden sun salutes the morn,
As who should say 'Old lad, I am thine own.'
As who would say in Rome no justice were.
As will revenge these bitter woes of ours.
As willingly as one would kill a fly;
As you are great, be pitifully good.
As you must needs, for you all clapp'd your hands,
As you must needs, for you all cried 'Go, go'-
As you, Prince Paris, nothing but heavenly business
As, if it can, I will presume in you-
At Lacedaemon and Byzantium
At Priam's royal table do I sit;
At ample point all that I did possess
At duty, more than I could frame employment;
At every joint and motive of her body.
At heaviest answer.
At such a bay, by turn to serve our lust.
At the port, lord, I'll give her to thy hand,
At your request a little from himself.
Attend our weightier judgment. And, not to swell our spirit,
Attendants
Awake thee.
Away with slavish weeds and servile thoughts!
Ay, even such heaps and sums of love and wealth
Ay, marry, will we, sir! and we'll be waited on.
Ay, now begins our sorrows to approach.
Ay, such a place there is where we did hunt-
Ay, with celerity, find Hector's purpose
Banish your dotage! Banish usury
Bar'st me my way in Rome?
Basely insinuate and send us gifts.
Be Alcibiades your plague, you his,
Be answer'd in his challenge. Ajax is ready.
Be as a cauterizing to the root o' th' tongue,
Be as a planetary plague, when Jove
Be barr'd his entrance here.
Be bold in us: we'll follow where thou lead'st,
Be candidatus then, and put it on,
Be chosen with proclamations to-day,
Be closed in our household's monument.
Be cross with him; and I'll go fetch thy sons
Be crown'd with plagues, that thee alone obey!
Be general leprosy! Breath infect breath,
Be merely poison! Nothing I'll bear from thee
Be my retentive enemy, my gaol?
Be not obdurate, open thy deaf ears.
Be pitiful to my condemned sons,
Be quite contrary! And thatch your poor thin roofs
Be shook to airy air.
Be so dishonoured in the court of Rome.
Be strong in whore, allure him, burn him up;
Be thou a flatterer now, and seek to thrive
Be unto us as is a nurse's song
Be you my time to bring it to some shape.
Be you rememb'red, Marcus; she's gone, she's fled.
Bear his betroth'd from all the world away.
Bear the great sway of his affairs with reasons,
Bear thou my hand, sweet wench, between thy teeth.
Beats in this hollow prison of my flesh,
Because Cassandra's mad. Her brain-sick raptures
Because she was enforc'd, stain'd, and deflower'd?
Because the law hath ta'en revenge on them.
Because they died in honour's lofty bed.
Because thou art a woman and disclaim'st
Because we now are full. It was thought meet
Because your speech hath none that tells him so?
Become a deluge, overflow'd and drown'd;
Becomes not Titus' brother. Get thee gone;
Bed, chamber, pander, to provide this gear!                Exeunt
Before a sleeping giant. Tell him so.
Before proud Athens he's set down by this,
Before the sun rose he was harness'd light,
Before this earthy prison of their bones,
Beg at the gates like Tarquin and his queen.
Beggar the estimation which you priz'd
Beginning in the middle; starting thence away,
Beheld his tears, and laugh'd so heartily
Behold the poor remains, alive and dead!
Behold, I choose thee, Tamora, for my bride
Believe't that we'll do anything for gold.
Believe't, my lord and I have made an end:
Besides the applause and approbation
Besides, his expedition promises
Besides, this sorrow is an enemy,
Best in all Athens. Th'art indeed the best;
Better than he have worn Vulcan's badge.
Between our Ilium and where she resides
Between whose endless jar justice resides-
Bias and thwart, not answering the aim,
Bid him demand what pledge will please him best.
Bid him encamp his soldiers where they are.
Bid him farewell; commit him to the grave;
Bid him repair to me, and bring with him
Bid them have patience; she shall come anon.
Bleeding to Rome, bearing his valiant sons
Blood and revenge are hammering in my head.
Blow off thy cap; praise his most vicious strain,
Blow, villain, till thy sphered bias cheek
Blunt wedges rive hard knots. The seeded pride
Blushing to be encount'red with a cloud.
Bold as an oracle, and sets Thersites,
Both her sweet hands, her tongue, and that more dear
Both merits pois'd, each weighs nor less nor more;
Bounding between the two moist elements
Break open shops; nothing can you steal
Breaks scurril jests;
Brew'd with her sorrow, mesh'd upon her cheeks.
Bring action hither; this cannot go to war.
Bring in thy ranks, but leave without thy rage;
Brought hither in a most unlucky hour,
Bull-bearing Milo his addition yield
Buried this sigh in wrinkle of a smile.
Burn house! Sink Athens! Henceforth hated be
Bury him where you can, he comes not here.
But 'Be thou true' say I to fashion in
But I am weaker than a woman's tear,
But I attest the gods, your full consent
But I can tell that in each grace of these
But I do prize it at my love before
But I might master it. In faith, I lie;
But I of these will wrest an alphabet,
But I would have the soil of her fair rape
But I'll deceive you in another sort,
But Pandarus-O gods, how do you plague me!
But Saturnine? Full well, Andronicus,
But an unkind self, that itself will leave
But be as Ajax.
But by contempt of nature.
But by degree, stand in authentic place?
But carries on the stream of his dispose,
But dawning day new comfort hath inspir'd.
But direct villainy. Therefore be abhorr'd
But even the mere necessities upon't.
But even with law against the wilful sons
But fierce Andronicus would not relent.
But floods of tears will drown my oratory
But for all this, my honest-natur'd friends,
But for these instances:
But for thy sword and fortune, trod upon them-
But for your health and your digestion sake,
But give them to his master for a present.
But give your pigeons to the Emperor;
But he already is too insolent;
But he and his shall know that justice lives
But he as he, the heavier for a whore.
But he that disciplin'd thine arms to fight-
But his evasion, wing'd thus swift with scorn,
But honour thee, and will do till I die.
But hope to pluck a dainty doe to ground.             Exeunt
But if I live, his feigned ecstasies
But if my frosty signs and chaps of age,
But if there be not in our Grecian mould
But if we live we'll be as sharp with you.
But if you hunt these bear-whelps, then beware:
But in a dream of friendship,
But in her company there is a Moor;
But in mine emulous honour let him die
But in oblivion and hateful griefs.
But in the wind and tempest of her frown
But in thy fortunes am unlearn'd and strange.
But it must grieve young Pyrrhus now at home,
But kill not all together.
But let desert in pure election shine;
But let her rest in her unrest awhile-
But let the famish'd flesh slide from the bone
But let the laws of Rome determine all;
But let the ruffian Boreas once enrage
But let them hear what fearful words I utter.
But like a drunkard must I vomit them.
But makes it much more heavy. Hector's opinion
But me and mine; how happy art thou then
But metal, Marcus, steel to the very back,
But more in Troilus thousand-fold I see
But must my sons be slaughtered in the streets
But nakedness, thou detestable town!
But not a sceptre to control the world.
But not till I am dead. I'll say th' hast gold.
But now nor Lucius nor Lavinia lives
But on mine honour dare I undertake
But only painted, like his varnish'd friends?
But our great Ajax bravely beat down him.'
But pardon, father Nestor, were your days
But safer triumph is this funeral pomp
But say, again, how many saw the child?
But send the midwife presently to me.
But set them down horrible traitors. Spare not the babe
But shall be render'd to your public laws
But something may be done that we will not;
But sorrow flouted at is double death.
But sorrow that is couch'd in seeming gladness
But straight they told me they would bind me here
But sure some Tereus hath deflowered thee,
But that Achilles, were his brain as barren
But that I cannot do ten thousand more.
But that between us we can kill a fly
But that of hand. The still and mental parts
But that which gives my soul the greatest spurn
But the protractive trials of great Jove
But the strong base and building of my love
But then renew I could not, like the moon;
But thieves do lose it. Steal not less for this
But thieves unworthy of a thing so stol'n
But thorough lust and laughter. Pity's sleeping.
But thou art deeper read and better skill'd;
But throw her forth to beasts and birds to prey.
But thus condition'd; thou shalt build from men;
But tickles still the sore.
But to the sport abroad. Are you bound thither?
But to torment you with my bitter tongue!
But to your wishes' height advance you both.
But we in silence hold this virtue well:
But welcome as you are. What shall we do?
But were our witty Empress well afoot,
But what the repining enemy commends,
But when I meet you arm'd, as black defiance
But when contention and occasion meet,
But when they would seem soldiers, they have galls,
But where one villain is, then him abandon.-
But where the bull and cow are both milk-white,
But wherefore stand'st thou with thy weapon drawn?
But who comes here, led by a lusty Goth?
But who comes with our brother Marcus here?
But who is man that is not angry?
But with a noble fury and fair spirit,
But would it please thee, good Andronicus,
But yet I'll bury thee. Thou't go, strong thief,
But yet be true.
But yet so just that he will not revenge.
But, Titus, I have touch'd thee to the quick,
But, gentle people, give me aim awhile,
But, in defence, by mercy, 'tis most just.
But, lovely niece, that mean is cut from thee.
But, out alas! here have we found him dead.
But, saying thus, instead of oil and balm,
But, soft! methinks I do digress too much,
But, though I lov'd you well, I woo'd you not;
Buzz in the people's ears, there nought hath pass'd
By Jove, I'll play the hunter for thy life
By all the duties that I owe to Rome,
By any voice or order of the field?
By day and night t' attend him carefully,
By decimation and a tithed death-
By going to Achilles.
By him one step below, he by the next,
By humble message and by promis'd means.
By me thou shalt have justice at his hands.
By my advice, all humbled on your knees,
By nature made for murders and for rapes.
By putting on the cunning of a carper.
By reason guide his execution.
By showing the worst first. Do not consent
By that same god- what god soe'er it be
By that which has undone thee: hinge thy knee,
By this device.
By two of their most reverend Senate greet thee.
By uproars sever'd, as a flight of fowl
By working wreakful vengeance on thy foes.
Caius and Valentine, lay hands on them.
Call Agamemnon head and general.
Calm thee, and bear the faults of Titus' age,
Came here to make us merry! And thou hast kill'd him.
Came not my friend nor I.
Can couch for fear but I will find them out;
Can do no service on her sorrowful cheeks.
Can make you greater than the Queen of Goths.
Can never turn the swan's black legs to white,
Can qualify the same?
Can you eat roots, and drink cold water- No?
Candied with ice, caudle thy morning taste
Cannot distaste the goodness of a quarrel
Cannot induce you to attend my words,
Cannot make boast to have that which he hath,
Cannot outfly our apprehensions.
Cap and knee slaves, vapours, and minute-lacks!
Captain General of the Grecian army, et cetera, Agamemnon. Do
Captive to thee and to thy Roman yoke;
Captives, to be advanced to this height?
Care of your food and living; and believe it,
Causeless, perhaps. But pardon me, sweet aunt;
Chief architect and plotter of these woes.
Choler does kill me that thou art alive;
Chosen Andronicus, surnamed Pius
Citing my worthless praise. O, pardon me!
Clear up, fair Queen, that cloudy countenance;
Co-rivall'd greatness? Either to harbour fled
Coal-black is better than another hue
Cold lips blow to their deities, take thee from me.
Come and take choice of all my library,
Come down and welcome me to this world's light;
Come hither purposely to poison me.
Come hither, ere my tree hath felt the axe,
Come not near him. [To the POET] If thou wouldst not reside
Come on, you thick-lipp'd slave, I'll bear you hence;
Come, boy, and go with me; thy sight is young,
Come, come, be every one officious
Come, come, our Empress, with her sacred wit
Come, come, sweet Emperor; come, Andronicus.
Come, come; thou'lt do my message, wilt thou not?
Come, if the Emperor's court can feast two brides,
Come, let me see what task I have to do.
Come, let us go, and make thy father blind,
Come, let's fall to; and, gentle girl, eat this:
Come, mistress, now perforce we will enjoy
Come, stretch thy chest, and let thy eyes spout blood:
Come, to this gear. You are a good archer, Marcus.
Come.
Comes fast upon. Good my brother Troilus,
Cometh Andronicus, bound with laurel boughs,
Coming and going with thy honey breath.
Commit my cause in balance to be weigh'd.
Commit myself, my person, and the cause.
Commotion in the winds! Frights, changes, horrors,
Complots of mischief, treason, villainies,
Confederate in the fact; ay, more there was,
Confederate with the Queen and her two sons;
Confederates all thus to dishonour me.
Confer with me of murder and of death;
Confound them by some course, and come to me,
Confounded be thyself! Speak not, be gone.
Confusion fall-
Consent upon the order of their fight,
Consuming it with speaking!
Convert, o' th' instant, green virginity.
Corrects the ill aspects of planets evil,
Could I but catch it for them.
Could not all hell afford you such a devil?
Count wisdom as no member of the war,
Countless and infinite, yet would I pay them!
Coupled to nature.
Courteous destroyers, affable wolves, meek bears,
Cousin, a word: where is your husband?
Crack my clear voice with sobs and break my heart,
Crams his rich thievery up, he knows not how.
Creditors? Devils!
Creep in the minds and marrows of our youth,
Cressida. I come to speak with Paris from the Prince Troilus; I
Cries 'Come' to him that instantly must die.
Cries 'Excellent! 'tis Agamemnon just.
Cries of itself 'No more!' Now breathless wrong
Cripple our senators, that their limbs may halt
Crown him, and say 'Long live our Emperor!'
Crust you quite o'er! What, dost thou go?
Cry 'No recovery.'
Cry, Troyans, cry, A Helen and a woe!
Cry, Troyans, cry. Practise your eyes with tears.
Cry, cry. Troy burns, or else let Helen go.                  Exit
Cunning in dumbness, from my weakness draws
Cupid, Cupid!
Curs'd be that heart that forc'd us to this shift!
Cut off the proud'st conspirator that lives.
Damn'd as he is, to witness this is true.
Dardan, and Tymbria, Helias, Chetas, Troien,
Daunt all your hopes. Madam, he comforts you
Dead, sure; and this his grave. What's on this tomb
Dear lord, go you and greet him in his tent.
Debts wither 'em to nothing. Be men like blasted woods,
Decline to your confounding contraries
Defend the justice of my cause with arms;
Degrees in schools, and brotherhoods in cities,
Degrees, observances, customs and laws,
Deliver'd to us; and for him forthwith,
Derive some pain from you. Plague all,
Descend, and open your uncharged ports.
Desir'd my Cressid in right great exchange,
Desires to be admitted to your presence.
Destruction fang mankind! Earth, yield me roots.
Did as a prophet weep what it foresaw
Did buy each other, must poorly sell ourselves
Did ever raven sing so like a lark
Did graciously plead for his funerals.
Did haunt you in the field.
Did in great Ilion thus translate him to me.
Did move your greatness and this noble state
Did not thy hue bewray whose brat thou art,
Did you not use his daughter very friendly?
Die in the fall. But 'tis not so with me:
Die, die, Lavinia, and thy shame with thee;   [He kills her]
Directive by the limbs.
Disgrace to your great worths, and shame to me,
Disguise the holy strength of their command,
Dishonoured thus, and challenged of wrongs?
Dismiss your followers, and, as suitors should,
Dismounted from your snow-white goodly steed,
Dispraise the thing that you desire to buy;
Dissemble all your griefs and discontents.
Distasted with the salt of broken tears.
Distinction, with a broad and powerful fan,
Divert and crack, rend and deracinate,
Divide thy lips than we are confident,
Do a fair message to his kingly eyes?
Do execution on my flesh and blood.
Do in our eyes begin to lose their gloss;
Do not draw back, for we will mourn with thee;
Do on the oak, have with one winter's brush
Do shameful execution on herself.
Do them that kindness, and take leave of them.
Do this, and be a charitable murderer.
Do this, and purchase us thy lasting friends.'
Do thou so much as dig the grave for him.
Do thoughts unveil in their dumb cradles.
Do thy right nature.                        [March afar off]
Do to this body what extremes you can,
Do villainy, do, since you protest to do't,
Do you damn others, and let this damn you,
Do you uphold and maintain in your speeches,
Do you with cheeks abash'd behold our works
Do't in your parents' eyes. Bankrupts, hold fast;
Do, then, dear heart; for heaven shall hear our prayers,
Domestic awe, night-rest, and neighbourhood,
Done sacrifice of expiation,
Dost it enforcedly. Thou'dst courtier be again
Dost overshine the gallant'st dames of Rome,
Dost please thyself in't?
Doth burn the heart to cinders where it is.
Doth choke the air with dust. In, and prepare.
Doth fat me with the very thoughts of it!
Doth lesser blench at suff'rance than I do.
Doth make your honour of his body's hue,
Doth one pluck down another, and together
Doth rise and fall between thy rosed lips,
Doth shine upon the dead man's earthy cheeks,
Doth turn O ho! to ha! ha! he!
Doth valour's show and valour's worth divide
Doth weep to see his grandsire's heaviness.
Doubt and suspect, alas, are plac'd too late!
Down with it flat, take the bridge quite away
Drag hence her husband to some secret hole,
Draw near them then in being merciful.
Drawing all things to it. I'll go in and weep-
Drown the lamenting fool in sea-salt tears.
Drowns him and takes his valour prisoner.
Dry up thy marrows, vines, and plough-torn leas,
Ducks to the golden fool. All's oblique;
During all question of the gentle truce;
Durst never meddle-in the soul of state,
Duty, and zeal, to your unmatched mind,
Each Troyan that is master of his heart,
Each man apart, all single and alone,
Eating the flesh that she herself hath bred.
Either in hope or present, I'd exchange
Engenders the black toad and adder blue,
Ensear thy fertile and conceptious womb,
Enter his thoughts, save such as doth revolve
Enter the CLOWN, with a basket and two pigeons in it
Entomb'd upon the very hem o' th' sea;
Entreat her fair; and, by my soul, fair Greek,
Entreat thee back to Athens, who have thought
Environ'd with a wilderness of sea,
Ere the first sacrifice, within this hour,
Ere thou hadst power or we had cause of fear,
Ere thou relieve the beggar. Give to dogs
Even as an adder when she doth unroll
Even at his father's house, the old Andronicus.
Even at thy teat thou hadst thy tyranny.
Even for his sake am I pitiless.
Even from Hyperion's rising in the east
Even in the birth of our own labouring breath.
Even in the soul of sound good-fellowship-
Even in their throats that have committed them.
Even like a stony image, cold and numb.
Even now I curse the day- and yet, I think,
Even so mayest thou the giddy men of Rome.
Even then when they sit idly in the sun.
Even to his inches, and, with private soul,
Even to my full of view.
Even when their sorrows almost was forgot,
Ever to read them thine.
Every tithe soul 'mongst many thousand dismes
Exampl'd by the first pace that is sick
Exceeds man's might; that dwells with gods above.
Excitements to the field or speech for truce,
Exeunt
Exeunt
Expecting ever when some envious surge
Expecting in return twenty for one?
Extremity of griefs would make men mad;
FIRST GOTH. And ours with thine, befall what fortune will.
Fails in the promis'd largeness; checks and disasters
Fair Philomel, why she but lost her tongue,
Fair desires, in all fair measure, fairly guide them- especially
Fair lords, your fortunes are alike in all
Fall, and no more. And, to atone your fears
Fam'd be thy tutor, and thy parts of nature
Farewell, Lavinia, my noble sister;
Farewell, my lord. I as your lover speak.
Farewell, proud Rome; till Lucius come again,
Fear not my truth: the moral of my wit
Fear not thy sons; they shall do well enough.
Feast at my house, and he shall feast with them.
Feed arrogance and are the proud man's fees.
Fell from their boughs, and left me open, bare
Few come within the compass of my curse-
Fie, fie, how franticly I square my talk,
Fie, treacherous hue, that will betray with blushing
Fierce to their skill, and to their fierceness valiant;
Filling the aged wrinkles in my cheeks,
Find what thou want'st by free and offer'd light.
Finds bottom in th' uncomprehensive deeps;
First hang the child, that he may see it sprawl-
First thrash the corn, then after burn the straw.
Fit I meet them.                   [Advancing from his cave]
Fitted by kind for rape and villainy.
Flattering myself as if it were the Moor
Flinty mankind, whose eyes do never give
Follows me everywhere, I know not why.
Follows the choking.
Fools on both sides! Helen must needs be fair,
For 'tis a cause that hath no mean dependence
For 'tis not life that I have begg'd so long;
For Hector in his blaze of wrath subscribes
For I can smooth and fill his aged ears
For I have heard my grandsire say full oft
For I must ever doubt though ne'er so sure,
For I must talk of murders, rapes, and massacres,
For I presume brave Hector would not lose
For I will throw my glove to Death himself
For Time is like a fashionable host,
For all her cherubin look.
For all my blood in Rome's great quarrel shed,
For all the frosty nights that I have watch'd,
For all the water in the ocean
For any benefit that points to me,
For beauty, wit,
For both our honour and our shame in this
For bounty, that makes gods, does still mar men.
For by oppressing and betraying me
For each true word a blister, and each false
For emulation hath a thousand sons
For every false drop in her bawdy veins
For every storm that blows- I to bear this,
For fear they die before their pardon come.
For good Lord Titus' innocence in all,
For hands to do Rome service is but vain.
For he is set so only to himself
For her delivery to this valiant Greek
For here it sleeps and does no hired harm.
For here the Troyans taste our dear'st repute
For his undone lord than mine eyes for you.
For his ungrateful country done the like.
For honour travels in a strait so narrow -
For in this rapture I shall surely speak
For it is parting from us.
For it is you that puts us to our shifts.
For law is strict, and war is nothing more.
For many good and great deserts to Rome.
For many so arrive at second masters
For many weary months.
For me, most wretched, to perform the like.
For nature puts me to a heavy task.
For no name fits thy nature but thy own!
For now I stand as one upon a rock,
For now he firmly takes me for Revenge;
For our beloved mother in her pains.
For our proud Empress, mighty Tamora.
For peace, for love, for league, and good to Rome.
For pity is the virtue of the law,
For pity of mine age, whose youth was spent
For private faults in them.
For sauciness. I pray you let us hence,
For shame, put up.
For showing me again the eyes of man!
For sluttish spoils of opportunity,
For speculation turns not to itself
For such a sight will blind a father's eye;
For testimony of her foul proceedings.
For that good hand thou sent'st the Emperor.
For that they will not intercept my tale.
For that will physic the great Myrmidon,
For the capacity of my ruder powers.
For the enfreed Antenor, the fair Cressid.
For the great swinge and rudeness of his poise,
For the offence he dies. This is our doom.
For the wide world's revenue.
For their fell faults our brothers were beheaded,
For these base bondmen to the yoke of Rome.
For these contempts.  [Aside]  Why, thus it shall become
For these two heads do seem to speak to me,
For these, Tribunes, in the dust I write
For they have fought for Rome, and all in vain;
For this one wish, that you had power and wealth
For this proud mock I'll be thy slaughterman,
For this time will I take my leave, my lord.
For those that were, it is not square to take,
For thou hast done a charitable deed.
For thou hast made it like a humble suppliant.
For thou, poor man, hast drown'd it with thine own.
For thus popp'd Paris in his hardiment,
For thy best use and wearing.
For thy part, I do wish thou wert a dog,
For tubs and baths; bring down rose-cheek'd youth
For two and twenty sons I never wept,
For up and down she doth resemble thee.
For valiant doings in their country's cause?
For villains mark'd with rape.- May it please you,
For well I wot the Empress never wags
For what he has he gives, what thinks he shows,
For what, alas, can these my single arms?
For when no friends are by, men praise themselves.
For which attempt the judges have pronounc'd
For which we lose our heads to gild his horns.
For why my bowels cannot hide her woes,
For womanish it is to be from thence.
For worse than Philomel you us'd my daughter,
For you serve knaves.                                   Exit
For you, Prince Bassianus, I have pass'd
For your own gifts make yourselves prais'd; but reserve still to
For, by my fathers' reverend tomb, I vow
For, by my soul, were there worse end than death,
For, by the dreadful Pluto, if thou dost not,
Forc'd in the ruthless, vast, and gloomy woods?
Force should be right; or, rather, right and wrong-
Fore all the Greekish heads, which with one voice
Forestall prescience, and esteem no act
Forgetting thy great deeds, when neighbour states,
Forgive my general and exceptless rashness,
Fortune and I are friends; I do enjoy
Foul-spoken coward, that thund'rest with thy tongue,
Fraught with the ministers and instruments
Freely command, thou wouldst have plung'd thyself
Fresh kings are come to Troy. To-morrow
From Alcibiades to Timon's cave
From Cupid's shoulder pluck his painted wings,
From certain and possess'd conveniences
From change of fortune. Why this spade, this place?
From false to false, among false maids in love,
From forth thy plenteous bosom, one poor root!
From gen'ral excrement- each thing's a thief.
From high to low throughout, that whoso please
From his deep chest laughs out a loud applause;
From niggard nature fall, yet rich conceit
From our companion, thrown into his grave,
From these devourers to be banished!
From this unhallow'd and blood-stained hole?
From thousand dangers; bid him bury it.
From weary wars against the barbarous Goths,
From whence at first she weigh'd her anchorage,
From where he circumscribed with his sword
Fronting the sun, receives and renders back
Full of decay and failing? O monument
Full of protest, of oath, and big compare,
Full well I wot the ground of all this grudge:
Full well shalt thou perceive how much I dare.
Furnish you fairly for this interchange;
Gallops the zodiac in his glistening coach
Gave wings to my propension, and cut of
Gave you a dancing rapier by your side,
Gentle Lavinia, let me kiss thy lips,
Get me a ladder.
Give Mutius burial with our bretheren.
Give him allowance for the better man;
Give me a staff of honour for mine age,
Give me a sword, I'll chop off my hands too,
Give me pen and ink. Sirrah, can you with a grace deliver up a
Give me thy knife, I will insult on him,
Give sentence on the execrable wretch
Give them diseases, leaving with thee their lust.
Give us a prince of blood, a son of Priam,
Give with thy trumpet a loud note to Troy,
Gives us more palm in beauty than we have,
Giving our holy virgins to the stain
Gnawing with thy teeth; and be this dismal sight
Go drag the villain hither by the hair;
Go get you gone; and pray be careful all,
Go great with tigers, dragons, wolves, and bears;
Go pack with him, and give the mother gold,
Go sound the ocean and cast your nets;
Go thou with him, and when it is thy hap
Go thou with them; and in the Emperor's court
Go to the Empress, tell her this I said.      [He kills her]
Go to; have your lath glued within your sheath
Go, I charge thee, invite them all; let in the tide
Go, gentle Marcus, to thy nephew Lucius;
God give you joy, sir, of your gallant bride!
Gold? Yellow, glittering, precious gold? No, gods,
Good Aaron, give his Majesty my hand;
Good Aaron, wilt thou help to chop it off?
Good Murder, stab him; he's a murderer.
Good Rapine, stab him; he is a ravisher.
Good arms, strong joints, true swords; and, Jove's accord,
Good boy, in Virgo's lap! Give it Pallas.
Good king, to be so mightily abused!
Good uncle Marcus, see how swift she comes!
Good word nor look. What, are my deeds forgot?
Gracious Lavinia, Rome's rich ornament,
Gracious triumpher in the eyes of Rome!
Grant I may ever love, and rather woo
Grasps in the corner. The welcome ever smiles,
Grave Tribunes, once more I entreat of you.
Grave witnesses of true experience,
Graves only be men's works and death their gain!
Great Agamemnon, Nestor shall apply
Great reason that my noble lord be rated
Greece. When thou art forth in the incursions, thou strikest as
Greek commanders:
Grow in the veins of actions highest rear'd,
Grows dainty of his worth, and in his tent
Ha! a drum? Th'art quick,
Ha, you gods! why this? What, this, you gods? Why, this
Had I but seen thy picture in this plight,
Had I so good occasion to lie long
Had I the pow'r that some say Dian had,
Had it our name, the value of one ten,
Had nature lent thee but thy mother's look,
Had she a tongue to speak, now would she say
Hadst thou, like us from our first swath, proceeded
Half heart, half hand, half Hector comes to seek
Half of the number that King Priam had,
Half stints their strife before their strokes begin.
Handlest in thy discourse. O, that her hand,
Hang them or stab them, drown them in a draught,
Happily you may catch her in the sea;
Hard as the palm of ploughman! This thou tell'st me,
Hark ye, lords. You see I have given her physic,
Hark, Tamora, the empress of my soul,
Hark, villains! I will grind your bones to dust,
Hark, wretches! how I mean to martyr you.
Has caught me in his eye; I will present
Has desp'rate want made!
Has uncheck'd theft. Love not yourselves; away,
Hast prisoner held, fett'red in amorous chains,
Hast thou more?
Haste there before us. I constantly believe-
Hate all, curse all, show charity to none,
Hath a distracted and most wretched being,
Hath any honour, but honour for those honours
Hath been as dear as Helen-I mean, of ours.
Hath broke their hearts. March, noble lord,
Hath doubtfully pronounc'd thy throat shall cut,
Hath hurt me more than had he kill'd me dead;
Hath in her more destruction than thy sword
Hath lopp'd, and hew'd, and made thy body bare
Hath made thee handless in thy father's sight?
Hath made thee hard in't. Why shouldst thou hate men?
Hath ordain'd to an honourable end,
Hath stepp'd into the law, which is past depth
Hath to the marbled mansion all above
Hath yok'd a nation strong, train'd up in arms.
Have I been ever free, and must my house
Have by my means been butchered wrongfully?
Have ears more deaf than adders to the voice
Have gloz'd, but superficially; not much
Have here bereft my brother of his life.
Have miserable, mad, mistaking eyes.
Have not more gift in taciturnity.
Have seal'd thy full desire.
Have sent thee treasure. Go, live rich and happy,
Have to the port of Athens sent their ships
Have travail'd in the great show'r of your gifts,
Have wander'd with our travers'd arms, and breath'd
Have we done aught amiss, show us wherein,
Have with my knife carved in Roman letters
Having his ear full of his airy fame,
Having often of your open bounty tasted,
He acts thy greatness in; and when he speaks
He and his lady both are at the lodge
He brought a Grecian queen, whose youth and freshness
He by the Senate is accited home,
He can at pleasure stint their melody;
He chid Andromache, and struck his armourer;
He craves a parley at your father's house,
He did behove his anger ere 'twas spent,
He did oppose his foe;
He dies upon my scimitar's sharp point
He forfeits his own blood that spills another.
He fumbles up into a loose adieu,
He gave me a jewel th' other day, and now he has beat it out of
He has been known to commit outrages
He hath a lady wiser, fairer, truer,
He hath some message to deliver us.
He is a man, setting his fate aside,
He is an usurer. Strike me the counterfeit matron:
He is enfranchised and come to light.
He is not emulous, as Achilles is.
He is not sick.
He is so plaguy proud that the death tokens of it
He is your brother, lords, sensibly fed
He leaves his pledges dearer than his life.
He like a puling cuckold would drink up
He lives in fame that died in virtue's cause.
He makes important; possess'd he is with greatness,
He merits well to have her that doth seek her,
He must be buried with his bretheren.
He must, he is, he cannot but be wise;
He offers in another's enterprise;
He pageants us. Sometime, great Agamemnon,
He rises on the toe. That spirit of his
He shall as soon read in the eyes of others
He shall be executed presently.              Exeunt SENATORS
He shall unbolt the gates.
He shent our messengers; and we lay by
He takes false shadows for true substances.
He tells thee so himself.
He that meets Hector issues from our choice;
He thinks, with Jove in heaven, or somewhere else,
He would have dropp'd his knife, and fell asleep,
He would not then have touch'd them for his life!
He'll so awake as he in fury shall
He's a sworn rioter; he has a sin that often
He's flung in rage from this ingrateful seat
He's truly valiant that can wisely suffer
Hearing the surges threat. We must all part
Hearing you were retir'd, your friends fall'n off,
Heart of our numbers, soul and only spirit
Heat them, and they retort that heat again
Heaven guide thy pen to print thy sorrows plain,
Hector bade ask.
Hector! Look how he looks. There's a countenance! Is't not a
Hector, in view of Troyans and of Greeks,
Helen so blush'd, and Paris so chaf'd; and all the rest so
Helen. An she were not kin to me, she would be as fair a Friday
Helenus is a priest.
Helenus. I think he went not forth to-day. That's Helenus.
Hence, pack! there's gold; you came for gold, ye slaves.
Her bed is India; there she lies, a pearl;
Her eyes, her hair, her cheek, her gait, her voice,
Her life was beastly and devoid of pity,
Here Aaron is; and what with Aaron now?
Here Goths have given me leave to sheathe my sword.
Here are the heads of thy two noble sons;
Here comes Patroclus.
Here comes a parcel of our hopeful booty,
Here grow no damned drugs, here are no storms,
Here is a man-but 'tis before his face;
Here is no drink. Hark, Marcus, what she says-
Here is some gold for thee.
Here is the babe, as loathsome as a toad
Here lie I, Timon, who alive all living men did hate.
Here lies our way.                                         Exeunt
Here lurks no treason, here no envy swells,
Here never shines the sun; here nothing breeds,
Here none but soldiers and Rome's servitors
Here stands my other son, a banish'd man,
Here stands the spring whom you have stain'd with mud;
Here tend the savage strangeness he puts on,
Here's Rome's young Captain, let him tell the tale;
Here's a young lad fram'd of another leer.
Here's gold. Go, suck the subtle blood o' th' grape
Here's no sound jest! The old man hath found their guilt,
Here, Marcus, fold it in the oration;
Here, boy, 'To Pallas'; here 'To Mercury.'
Here, take. The gods, out of my misery,
Here, you maid! Where's my cousin Cressid?
Hereafter more. Bring me into your city,
Herself and hers are highly bound to thee.
Herself's a bawd. Let not the virgin's cheek
Hie to the Goths and raise an army there;
High birth, vigour of bone, desert in service,
High-witted Tamora to gloze with all.
His Philomel must lose her tongue to-day,
His antidotes are poison, and he slays
His child is like to her, fair as you are.
His country's peace.
His crest, that prouder than blue Iris bends.
His days are foul and his drink dangerous.
His fellowship i' th' cause against your city,
His figure and his heat. I was much rapt in this;
His fits, his frenzy, and his bitterness?
His heart and hand both open and both free;
His humorous predominance; yea, watch
His napkin, with his true tears all bewet,
His noble nephew here in virtue's nest,
His pettish lunes, his ebbs, his flows, as if
His semblable, yea, himself, Timon disdains.
His sons:
His sorrows have so overwhelm'd his wits,
His wife but yesternight was brought to bed;
Hold, hold! Meanwhile here's money for thy charges.
Holds in his blood such swol'n and hot discourse
Hollow upon this plain, so many hollow factions.
How I have govern'd our determin'd jest?
How I have lov'd and honoured Saturnine!
How Troy was burnt and he made miserable?
How comes it that the subtle Queen of Goths
How cursed Athens, mindless of thy worth,
How earnestly they knock! Pray you come in:
How easily murder is discovered!
How fain would I have hated all mankind!
How full of valour did he bear himself
How furious and impatient they be,
How like the Empress and her sons you are!
How many shallow bauble boats dare sail
How many sons hast thou of mine in store
How much in having, or without or in-
How novelties may move, and parts with person,
How now, Thersites! What's the matter, man?
How now, Ulysses!
How now, a kiss in fee-farm! Build there, carpenter; the air is
How now, good fellow! Wouldst thou speak with us?
How one man eats into another's pride,
How proud I am of thee and of thy gifts
How rank soever rounded in with danger.
How rarely does it meet with this time's guise,
How some men creep in skittish Fortune's-hall,
How these were they that made away his brother.         Exit
How they are stain'd, like meadows yet not dry
How were I then uplifted! but, alas,
How would he hang his slender gilded wings
However it is spread in general name,
However these disturbers of our peace
Hug their diseas'd perfumes, and have forgot
Hullo! what storm is this?
I am Revenge, sent from th' infernal kingdom
I am a lamb; but if you brave the Moor,
I am as able and as fit as thou
I am as poor as you.
I am as true as truth's simplicity,
I am as woeful as Virginius was,
I am asham'd. O heavens! what have I done?
I am his first born son that was the last
I am no baby, I, that with base prayers
I am no idle votarist. Roots, you clear heavens!
I am no more touch'd than all Priam's sons;
I am sick of this false world, and will love nought
I am sure you have. Speak truth; y'are honest men.
I am the sea; hark how her sighs do blow.
I am the turned forth, be it known to you,
I ask your voices and your suffrages:
I ask, that I might waken reverence,
I beg this boon, with tears not lightly shed,
I bring a trumpet to awake his ear,
I bring consuming sorrow to thine age.
I can interpret all her martyr'd signs;
I can watch you for telling how I took the blow; unless it swell
I cannot choose but tell him that I care not,
I cannot come to Cressid but by Pandar;
I cannot fight upon this argument;
I cannot read; the character I'll take with wax.
I charge thee use her well, even for my charge;
I could beat him, whilst he rail'd at me! 'Sfoot, I'll learn to
I did. I  will not dispraise your sister Cassandra's wit; but-
I do beseech you, as in way of taste,
I do beseech you, know me.
I do remit these young men's heinous faults.
I do repent it from my very soul.
I doubt he be hurt. Fare ye well, good niece.
I fear it much; and I do fear besides
I fear the Emperor means no good to us.
I fell with curses.
I found a friend; and sure as death I swore
I give thee thanks in part of thy deserts,
I give to both your speeches- which were such
I give you; and gold confound you howsoe'er!
I greet your honours from Andronicus-
I had rather be alone.
I have a kind of self resides with you;
I have a roisting challenge sent amongst
I have abandon'd Troy, left my possession,
I have been broad awake two hours and more.
I have been troubled in my sleep this night,
I have but little gold of late, brave Timon,
I have no more to reckon, he to spend.
I have no strength to pluck thee to the brink.
I have received letters from great Rome
I have strong reasons.
I have, as when the sun doth light a storm,
I heard a child cry underneath a wall.
I hold me highly honoured of your Grace,
I hope it is not so low with him as he made it seem in the trial
I knew thou wouldst be his death! O, poor gentleman! A plague
I knew you not. What news with you so early?
I know from whence this same device proceeds.
I know no touch of consanguinity,
I know, is such a wrest in their affairs
I lead espous'd my bride along with me.
I love Lavinia more than all the world.
I love you now; but till now not so much
I made unto the noise, when soon I heard
I may be pluck'd into the swallowing womb
I must needs say you have a little fault.
I never had honest man about me, I.
I not desire to know. Follow thy drum;
I play'd the cheater for thy father's hand,
I pray thee, do on them some violent death;
I pray you deliver him this petition.
I pried me through the crevice of a wall,
I promised your Grace a hunter's peal.
I read it in the grammar long ago.
I render for my brethren's obsequies;
I return'd you an empty messenger.
I see none now.
I see thou art not for my company.
I shall have such a life!
I should be author to dishonour you!
I should repent the evils I have done;
I speak it in my spirit and honour, 'No.'
I speak not 'Be thou true' as fearing thee,
I swoon to see thee.
I tell you, lords, you do but plot your deaths
I tell you, younglings, not Enceladus,
I thank you all and here dismiss you all,
I train'd thy brethren to that guileful hole
I was advertis'd their great general slept,
I will be bright and shine in pearl and gold,
I will be silent.
I will bring in the Empress and her sons,
I will come last. 'Tis like he'll question me
I will dismount, and by thy waggon wheel
I will embrace thee in it by and by.
I will enchant the old Andronicus
I will encounter with Andronicus,
I will go meet them; and, my lord Aeneas,
I will most thankful be; and thanks to men
I will most willingly attend your ladyship.
I will not be denied. Sweet heart, look back.
I will not re-salute the streets of Rome,
I with great truth catch mere simplicity;
I would not for a million of gold
I would not for half Troy have you seen here.
I would not from thee.
I would not part a bachelor from the priest.
I would not wish a drop of Troyan blood
I wrote the letter that thy father found,
I'd give thee leave to hang it. Get thee gone.
I'll answer to my lust. And know you, lord,
I'll beat thee- but I should infect my hands.
I'll bring her to the Grecian presently;
I'll cut thy throat.
I'll dive into the burning lake below
I'll ever serve his mind with my best will;
I'll find a day to massacre them all,
I'll find some cunning practice out of hand
I'll follow and enquire him out.
I'll give you gold enough.
I'll hide my silver beard in a gold beaver,
I'll interrupt his reading.
I'll make him send for Lucius his son,
I'll make you feed on berries and on roots,
I'll not meddle nor make no farther. He that will have a cake
I'll nothing do on charge: to her own worth
I'll once more feast the rascals.
I'll prove this truth with my three drops of blood.
I'll send the fool to Ajax, and desire him
I'll show you Troilus anon. If he see me, you shall see him nod
I'll speak no more but 'Vengeance rot you all!'
I'll teach them to prevent wild Alcibiades' wrath.
I'll to thy closet, and go read with thee
I'll trust by leisure him that mocks me once;
I'll trust to your conditions. Be whores still;
I'm worse than mad; I have kept back their foes,
I?
If Alcibiades kill my countrymen,
If Helen, then, be wife to Sparta's king-
If I be false, or swerve a hair from truth,
If I confess much, you will play the tyrant.
If I could temporize with my affections
If I do dream, would all my wealth would wake me!
If I do wake, some planet strike me down,
If I speak like a captain:
If I thrive well, I'll visit thee again.
If Lucius live, he will requite your wrongs
If Marcus did not name the word of hands!
If Saturnine advance the Queen of Goths,
If any come, Hector shall honour him;
If any one relieves or pities him,
If any power pities wretched tears,
If any thing more than your sport and pleasure
If by this crime he owes the law his life,
If e'er thou stand at mercy of my sword,
If ever Bassianus, Caesar's son,
If ever she leave Troilus! Time, force, and death,
If fear hath made thee faint, as me it hath-
If foul desire had not conducted you?
If none of them have soul in such a kind,
If none, he'll say in Troy, when he retires,
If not Achilles? Though 't be a sportful combat,
If not a usuring kindness, and as rich men deal gifts,
If not, I would it were.
If one good deed in all my life I did,
If so, I have derision med'cinable
If that the prais'd himself bring the praise forth;
If the dull brainless Ajax come safe off,
If the winds rage, doth not the sea wax mad,
If then one is, or hath, or means to be,
If there be one among the fair'st of Greece
If there were no foes, that were enough
If thou be pleas'd with this my sudden choice,
If thou do this, I'll show thee wondrous things
If thou hadst not been born the worst of men,
If thou wert the lion, the fox would beguile thee; if thou wert
If thou wilt curse, thy father, that poor rag,
If thou wilt not, befall what may befall,
If thou wouldst not entomb thyself alive
If thy revenges hunger for that food
If to my sword his fate be not the glory,
If we have lost so many tenths of ours
If wisdom be in suffering. O my lords,
If wrongs be evils, and enforce us kill,
If you do say we think him over-proud
If you will have Revenge from hell, you shall.
If you'll avouch 'twas wisdom Paris went-
If you'll confess he brought home worthy prize-
Imperious and impatient of your wrongs;
In Cressid's love. Thou answer'st 'She is fair'-
In Hector's wrath.
In Saturninus' health; whom, if she sleep,
In Troy, there lies the scene. From isles of Greece
In a bad quarrel slain a virtuous son.
In all designs begun on earth below
In aspiration lifts him from the earth.
In bootless prayer have they been held up,
In change of him. Let him be sent, great Princes,
In coffins from the field; and at this day
In dangerous wars whilst you securely slept;
In different beds of lust, and never learn'd
In doing wrong extenuates not wrong,
In election for the Roman empery
In evil mixture to disorder wander,
In fortune's love? For then the bold and coward,
In general riot, melted down thy youth
In holier shapes; for there is boundless theft
In hollow bones of man; strike their sharp shins,
In hope thyself should govern Rome and me.
In hot digestion of this cormorant war-
In life's uncertain voyage, I will some kindness do them-
In like conditions as our argument,
In limited professions. Rascal thieves,
In love whereof half Hector stays at home;
In mere oppugnancy: the bounded waters
In monumental mock'ry. Take the instant way;
In most accepted pain.
In my penurious band. I have heard, and griev'd,
In no less working than are swords and bows
In noble eminence enthron'd and spher'd
In other arms than hers-to him this challenge.
In our dear peril.
In part for his sake mov'd.
In peace and honour rest you here, my sons!
In peace and honour rest you here, my sons;
In pity of our aged and our youth-
In pleasing smiles such murderous tyranny.
In pleasure of my spleen.' And in this fashion
In praising her. I tell thee, lord of Greece,
In purity of manhood stand upright,
In rank Achilles must or now be cropp'd
In readiness for Hymenaeus stand-
In resolution to keep Helen still;
In right and service of their noble country.
In storms of fortune; for in her ray and brightness
In such a rein, in full as proud a place
In summer's drought I'll drop upon thee still;
In taint of our best man. No, make a lott'ry;
In that it scorns to bear another hue;
In the extremity of great and little
In the last conflict, and made plenteous wounds!
In the sick air; let not thy sword skip one.
In their applauding gates.
In this I do not call your faith in question
In this detested, dark, blood-drinking pit.
In this vile action; for the success,
In thy dumb action will I be as perfect
In thy uprightness and integrity,
In time of action. I stand condemn'd for this;
In whom the tempers and the minds of all
In whose comparison all whites are ink
In will peculiar and in self-admission.
In winter with warm tears I'll melt the snow
In wrongful quarrel you have slain your son.
In zeal to you, and highly mov'd to wrath
Incurr'd a traitor's name, expos'd myself
Infect the air! Twinn'd brothers of one womb-
Infects the sound pine, and diverts his grain
Ingrateful Rome requites with foul contempt,
Inhuman traitors, you constrain'd and forc'd.
Injurious time now with a robber's haste
Insisture, course, proportion, season, form,
Inspire me, that I may this treason find!
Instructed by the antiquary times-
Instruction, manners, mysteries, and trades,
Interprets for my poor ignorance.
Into our city with thy banners spread.
Into strong shudders and to heavenly agues,
Into this gaping hollow of the earth?
Into this sea of air.
Is 'plain and true'; there's all the reach of it.
Is as a virtue fix'd, to-day was mov'd.
Is as the very centre of the earth,
Is dear Lavinia, dearer than my soul.
Is friendly with him.
Is he sure bound? Look that you bind them fast.
Is in opinion and in honour wrong'd,
Is it your trick to make me ope the door,
Is led on in the conduct of my will;
Is left to tyrannize upon my breast;
Is like that mirth fate turns to sudden sadness.
Is more vindicative than jealous love.
Is noble Timon, of whose memory
Is not more loath'd than an effeminate man
Is not thy coming for my other hand?
Is not thy kindness subtle, covetous,
Is of a sudden thus advanc'd in Rome?
Is resty grown; he bade me take a trumpet
Is she not, then, beholding to the man
Is she worth keeping? Why, she is a pearl
Is smooth'd by that below. The learned pate
Is that the one will help to cut the other.
Is the sun dimm'd, that gnats do fly in it?
Is this the balsam that the usuring Senate
Is this, in way of truth. Yet, ne'er the less,
Is torn from forth that pretty hollow cage,
Is valour misbegot, and came into the world
Is yond despis'd and ruinous man my lord?
Is your perfection. This is Timon's last;
It almost turns my dangerous nature mild.
It comes not ill; I hate not to be banish'd;
It could not else be I should prove so base
It did me good before the palace gate
It doth import him much to speak with me.
It hath to climb. The general's disdain'd
It holds his estimate and dignity
It is a cause worthy my spleen and fury,
It is familiar-but at the author's drift;
It is her habit only that is honest,
It is not Agamemnon's sleeping hour.
It is our part and promise to th' Athenians
It is the pasture lards the rother's sides,
It is to jet upon a prince's right?
It is too starv'd a subject for my sword.
It may do good. Pride hath no other glass
It pleases time and fortune to lie heavy
It were convenient you had such a devil.
It will be seen to-morrow. My long sickness
It would have madded me; what shall I do
Join with the Goths, and with revengeful war
Jove shield your husband from his hounds to-day!
Keep in your bosom; yet remain assur'd
Keep then this passage to the Capitol;
Keep there; now talk at pleasure of your safety.
Keeps honour bright. To have done is to hang
Keeps place with thought, and almost, like the gods,
Keeps thicket. Please it our great general
King and commander of our commonweal,
Kingdom'd Achilles in commotion rages,
Kinsmen to Titus:
Kneel in the streets and beg for grace in vain.-
Knighted in field, slain manfully in arms,
Knock at his study, where they say he keeps
Knock at my door, and tell me what he says.
Know his gross patchery, love him, feed him,
Know that the people of Rome, for whom we stand
Know that this gold must coin a stratagem,
Know them from eyes of other mortals?
Knowing that with the shadow of his wings
Knows almost every grain of Plutus' gold;
Lady, give me your hand; and, as we walk,
Large-handed robbers your grave masters are,
Lascivious Goth, and all the bitterest terms
Lastly, myself unkindly banished,
Lavina is thine elder brother's hope.
Lavinia will I make my emperess,
Lavinia, come. Marcus, look to my house.
Lavinia, live; outlive thy father's days,
Lavinia, though you left me like a churl,
Lavinia, you are not displeas'd with this?
Lay negligent and loose regard upon him.
Lays her full mess before you. Want! Why want?
Leaps o'er the vaunt and firstlings of those broils,
Led by their master to the flow'red fields,
Led us to Rome, strangers, and more than so,
Lend me a fool's heart and a woman's eyes,
Lend me thy hand, and I will give thee mine.
Less valiant than the virgin in the night,
Lest Hector or my father should perceive me,
Lest Rome herself be bane unto herself,
Lest we remember still that we have none.
Lest, then, the people, and patricians too,
Let Alcibiades know this of Timon,
Let Marcus, Lucius, or thyself, old Titus,
Let Mars divide eternity in twain
Let die the spotted.
Let fools do good, and fair men call for grace:
Let him be told so; lest, perchance, he think
Let him make treble satisfaction.
Let him receive no sust'nance, fetter him,
Let him that thinks of me so abjectly
Let him to field; Troilus, alas, hath none!
Let it be call'd the wild and wand'ring flood;
Let it no more bring out ingrateful man!
Let me be privileg'd by my place and message
Let me be recorded by the righteous gods,
Let me behold thy face. Surely, this man
Let me go grind their bones to powder small,
Let me go to him.
Let me pass quietly.
Let me redeem my brothers both from death.
Let my tears stanch the earth's dry appetite;
Let not this wasp outlive, us both to sting.
Let not young Mutius, then, that was thy joy,
Let our drums strike.                                 Exeunt
Let them not speak a word- the guilt is plain;
Let us address to tend on Hector's heels.
Let us entreat, by honour of his name
Let us sit down and mark their yellowing noise;
Let us, like merchants, show our foulest wares
Let your close fire predominate his smoke,
Let's have your company; or, if you please,
Let's hew his limbs till they be clean consum'd.
Let's kiss and part, for we have much to do.
Let's see:
Let's shut our gates and sleep. Manhood and honour
Let's yet be fellows; let's shake our heads and say,
Lie there for pavement to the abject rear,
Lie where the light foam of the sea may beat
Lies in his hamstring, and doth think it rich
Lies mocking our designs; with him Patroclus
Lies rich in virtue and unmingled.
Lies the true proof of men. The sea being smooth,
Light boats sail swift, though greater hulks draw deep.
Like Perseus' horse. Where's then the saucy boat,
Like a forlorn and desperate castaway,
Like a strange soul upon the Stygian banks
Like all mankind, show me an iron heart?
Like empty purses pick'd; and his poor self,
Like one besotted on your sweet delights.
Like or find fault; do as your pleasures are;
Like stinging bees in hottest summer's day,
Like to a bubbling fountain stirr'd with wind,
Like to an ent'red tide they all rush by
Like to the Empress' Moor; therefore I kill'd him.
Like to the earth, swallow her own increase.
Like vassalage at unawares encount'ring
Like workmen. I'll example you with thievery:
Lips, let sour words go by and language end:
Live with authority. So soon we shall drive back
Lives not this day within the city walls.
Lo, as the bark that hath discharg'd her fraught
Lo, at this tomb my tributary tears
Lo, by thy side where Rape and Murder stands;
Lo, hand in hand, Lucius and I will fall.
Loaden with irons wiser than the judge,
Look by and by to have thy sons with thee.
Look how the black slave smiles upon the father,
Look out, and speak to friends. Th' Athenians
Look ye draw home enough, and 'tis there straight.
Look ye yonder, niece; is't not a gallant man too, is't not? Why,
Look, Marcus! Ah, son Lucius, look on her!
Look, sirs, if you can find the huntsman out
Looking all downwards to behold our cheeks
Lord Junius Brutus sware for Lucrece' rape-
Lord Paris?
Lord Saturnine; whose virtues will, I hope,
Lord Saturninus Rome's great Emperor;
Lord of my life, commander of my thoughts,
Lose not so noble a friend on vain suppose,
Love got so sweet as when desire did sue;
Love's thrice-repured nectar? Death, I fear me;
Love, friendship, charity, are subjects all
Love, love, nothing but love, still love, still more!
Loves me as dear as e'er my mother did,
Lucius and I'll go brave it at the court;
Lucius our Emperor; for well I know
Lucius, I'll fit thee; and withal my boy
Lucius, Lucullus, and Sempronius- all.
Madam, to you as many and as good!
Made emulous missions 'mongst the gods themselves,
Made tame and most familiar to my nature;
Maintain I know not what; 'tis trash. Farewell.
Maintain my opinion.
Make Cressid's name the very crown of falsehood,
Make large confusion; and, thy fury spent,
Make livers pale and lustihood deject.
Make my aunt merry with some pleasing tale.
Make poor men's cattle break their necks;
Make soft thy trenchant sword; for those milk paps
Make the hoar leprosy ador'd, place thieves
Make them best seen and known.
Make this his latest farewell to their souls.
Make use of thy salt hours. Season the slaves
Make war breed peace, make peace stint war, make each
Make way to lay them by their brethren.
Makes factious feasts; rails on our state of war
Makes flexible the knees of knotted oaks,
Makes many Thetis' sons.                                 [Tucket]
Makes me afeard.
Makes me less gracious or thee more fortunate:
Makes merit her election, and doth boil,
Makes way, and run like swallows o'er the plain.
Manly as Hector, but more dangerous;
Many a story hath he told to thee,
Many a time he danc'd thee on his knee,
Many good morrows to your Majesty!
Marcus, attend him in his ecstasy,
Marcus, unknit that sorrow-wreathen knot;
Marcus, we are but shrubs, no cedars we,
Marry, 'tis not monstrous in you; neither wish I
Marry, for Justice, she is so employ'd,
May I, sweet lady, beg a kiss of you?
May favour Tamora, the Queen of Goths-
May have the world in empire!
May pierce the head of the great combatant,
May run into that sink and, soaking in,
May this be borne- as if his traitorous sons
Meanwhile am I possess'd of that is mine.
Men are not still the same; 'twas time and griefs
Men prize the thing ungain'd more than it is.
Methinks he should the sooner pay his debts,
Methinks thou art more honest now than wise;
Mid-way between your tents and walls of Troy
Might be affronted with the match and weight
Mine eyes are cloy'd with view of tyranny;
Mine honour's ensigns humbled at thy feet.
Modest as Morning when she coldly eyes
Moe than you rob. Take wealth and lives together;
More bright in zeal than the devotion which
More hath it merited- that let it have.
More laud than gilt o'er-dusted.
More man? Plague, plague!
More ready to cry out 'Who knows what follows?'
More spongy to suck in the sense of fear,
More stern and bloody than the Centaurs' feast.
More than remembrance of my father's death.             Exit
Mortal revenge upon these traitorous Goths,
Most abject in regard and dear in use!
Most disobedient and refractory.
Most smiling, smooth, detested parasites,
Much attribute he hath, and much the reason
Must be the scene of mirth: to cough and spit
Must be thy subject; who, in spite, put stuff
Must fall out with men too. What the declin'd is,
Must make perforce an universal prey,
Must tarre the mastiffs on, as 'twere their bone.          Exeunt
Must we pursue, and I have found the path.
My brother Troilus lodges there to-night.
My dearest lord- blest to be most accurst,
My discontented troops, and lay for hearts.
My everlasting doom of banishment.
My faction if thou strengthen with thy friends,
My fame is shrewdly gor'd.
My father and Lavinia shall forthwith
My fleece of woolly hair that now uncurls
My foes I do repute you every one;
My grandsire, well advis'd, hath sent by me
My grief was at the height before thou cam'st,
My hand cut off and made a merry jest;
My hand hath been but idle; let it serve
My heart beats thicker than a feverous pulse,
My heart is not compact of flint nor steel;
My heart suspects more than mine eye can see.
My heart's deep languor and my soul's sad tears.
My honest grief unto him, and as my lord
My honours to you, upon his good returns.
My lord the Emperor, resolve me this:
My lord, come you again into my chamber.
My lord, kneel down with me; Lavinia, kneel;
My lord, look here! Look here, Lavinia!
My lords, a solemn hunting is in hand;
My lords, if not for any parts in him-
My lords, you know, as know the mightful gods,
My love admits no qualifying dross;
My matter is so rash. There is at hand
My most honour'd lord,
My mother gave it me.
My nephew Mutius' deeds do plead for him;
My noble lord and father, live in fame!
My rapier in his bosom, and withal
My scars can witness, dumb although they are,
My sequent protestation: be thou true,
My silence and my cloudy melancholy,
My son and I will have the wind of you:
My sons would never so dishonour me.
My sons' sweet blood will make it shame and blush.
My spritely brethren, I propend to you
My sword, my chariot, and my prisoners,
My tears are now prevailing orators.
My tears will choke me, if I ope my mouth.
My thoughts were like unbridled children, grown
My true betrothed love, and now my wife?
My very soul of counsel. Stop my mouth.
My will enkindled by mine eyes and ears,
My word and promise to the Emperor
My wounds ache at you.
My youth can better spare my blood than you,
Myself hath often heard them say-
Myself or Menelaus?
Name Cressid, and thy life shall be as safe
Nature, what things there are
Nay, he is your brother by the surer side,
Nay, her foot speaks; her wanton spirits look out
Nay, put out all your hands. Not one word more!
Nay, stay thou out for earnest.          [Keeping some gold]
Ne'er let my heart know merry cheer indeed
Ne'er look, ne'er look; the eagles are gone. Crows and daws,
Ne'er see thou man, and let me ne'er see thee.
Nev'r did poor steward wear a truer grief
Never presented!- O, a root! Dear thanks!-
News, news from heaven! Marcus, the post is come.
No big-bon'd men fram'd of the Cyclops' size;
No funeral rite, nor man in mourning weed,
No kin, no love, no blood, no soul so near me
No man alive can love in such a sort
No matter. Wear them, betray with them. Whore still;
No more my grief, in such a precious loss.
No more, I pray- and he's a steward.
No mournful bell shall ring her burial;
No noise, but silence and eternal sleep.
No prodigal.
No sooner had they told this hellish tale
No vast obscurity or misty vale,
No, let them satisfy their lust on thee.
No, madam, these are no venereal signs.
No, no, they would not do so foul a deed;
No, this thrice-worthy and right valiant lord
No, your poor disposer's sick.
No; Publius and Sempronius, you must do it;
Non eget Mauri iaculis, nec arcu.'
Nor age nor honour shall shape privilege.
Nor can I utter all our bitter grief,
Nor did he soil the fact with cowardice-
Nor dignifies an impair thought with breath;
Nor doth he of himself know them for aught
Nor faint in the pursuit.
Nor fear of bad success in a bad cause,
Nor feels not what he owes, but by reflection;
Nor great Alcides, nor the god of war,
Nor heel the high lavolt, nor sweeten talk,
Nor her, nor thee, nor any of thy stock.
Nor once deject the courage of our minds
Nor play at subtle games-fair virtues all,
Nor sight of priests in holy vestments bleeding,
Nor sound his quillets shrilly. Hoar the flamen,
Nor suffer others.
Nor thou, nor these, confederates in the deed
Nor tongue to tell me who hath martyr'd thee;
Nor we disturb'd with prodigies on earth.
Nor wink, nor nod, nor kneel, nor make a sign,
Nor wish no less; and so I take my leave.
Nor with sour looks afflict his gentle heart.
Nor would your noble mother for much more
Nor wrong mine age with this indignity.
Nor, by my will, assubjugate his merit,
Nor, princes, is it matter new to us
Not all the whips of heaven are large enough-
Not all thy counsel.
Not far, one Muliteus, my countryman-
Not going from itself; but eye to eye opposed
Not her own sinews. To end a tale of length,
Not making any scruple of her soilure,
Not palating the taste of her dishonour,
Not portable, lie under this report:
Not soon provok'd, nor being provok'd soon calm'd;
Not virtuously on his own part beheld,
Not yet mature, yet matchless; firm of word;
Nothing emboldens sin so much as mercy.
Nothing of that shall from mine eyes appear.                 Exit
Nothing so full of heart. But peace, Aeneas,
Nothing so kind, but something pitiful!
Now I behold thy lively body so?
Now all the service I require of them
Now bring them in, for I will play the cook,
Now crack thy lungs and split thy brazen pipe;
Now expectation, tickling skittish spirits
Now give some surance that thou art Revenge-
Now good or bad, 'tis but the chance of war.
Now have you heard the truth: what say you, Romans?
Now help, or woe betide thee evermore!
Now is a time to storm; why art thou still?
Now judge what cause had Titus to revenge
Now let me show a brother's love to thee.
Now play me Nestor; hem, and stroke thy beard,
Now question me no more; we are espied.
Now to deliver her possession up
Now will I hence to seek my lovely Moor,
Now will I to the Goths, and raise a pow'r
Now, by the burning tapers of the sky
Now, by the gods that warlike Goths adore,
Now, sweet queen.
Nurse, give it me; my sword shall soon dispatch it.
O Lord, I cannot speak to him for weeping;
O Tamora! was ever heard the like?
O brother, help me with thy fainting hand-
O earth, I will befriend thee more with rain
O foolish Cressid! I might have still held off,
O ho! a while, but ha! ha! ha!
O ho! groans out for ha! ha! ha!-hey ho!
O reverend Tribunes! O gentle aged men!
O sacred receptacle of my joys,
O sweet Revenge, now do I come to thee;
O the fierce wretchedness that glory brings us!
O these encounters so glib of tongue
O villains, Chiron and Demetrius!
O'er-run and trampled on. Then what they do in present,
O, be to me, though thy hard heart say no,
O, bless me here with thy victorious hand,
O, could our mourning case thy misery!                Exeunt
O, do not learn her wrath- she taught it thee;
O, do ye read, my lord, what she hath writ?
O, had the monster seen those lily hands
O, had we never, never hunted there!-
O, handle not the theme, to talk of hands,
O, if to fight for king and commonweal
O, keep me from their worse than killing lust,
O, let me teach you how to knit again
O, none of both but are of high desert!
O, now, sweet boy, give them their latest kiss!
O, take this warm kiss on thy pale cold lips.  [Kisses TITUS]
O, tell me who it is, for ne'er till now
O, tell me, did you see Aaron the Moor?
O, that I knew thy heart, and knew the beast,
O, think my son to be as dear to me!
O, thou shalt find-
O, were the sum of these that I should pay
O, what a sympathy of woe is this
O, would thou wert as thou tofore hast been!
Obedience, fail in children! Slaves and fools,
Observe degree, priority, and place,
Of Alcibiades th' approaches wild,
Of Hymen's purest bed! thou valiant Mars!
Of Lucius, son to old Andronicus;
Of Timon man and all humanity!                          Exit
Of a cut loaf to steal a shive, we know.
Of all rejoindure, forcibly prevents
Of any true decision. Nature craves
Of author's pen or actor's voice, but suited
Of comely virtues;
Of common ounces? Will you with counters sum
Of contumelious, beastly, mad-brain'd war,
Of cruel war. Sixty and nine that wore
Of divination in our sister work
Of egal justice, us'd in such contempt?
Of good or bad unto the general;
Of health and living now begins to mend,
Of her contaminated carrion weight
Of her two branches- those sweet ornaments
Of high resolved men, bent to the spoil,
Of him that, his particular to foresee,
Of his superior, grows to an envious fever
Of it own fail, restraining aid to Timon,
Of knaves once more; my cook and I'll provide.        Exeunt
Of lullaby to bring her babe asleep.
Of man and beast the infinite malady
Of monstrous friends; nor has he with him to
Of my word, I have written to effect;
Of nature and of nations speak aloud
Of nature be corrupted through affection;
Of noble minds is honourable meed.
Of old Andronicus. And what an if
Of pale and bloodless emulation.
Of parallels, as like Vulcan and his wife;
Of regular justice in your city's bounds,
Of speaking first. Sweet, bid me hold my tongue,
Of such a winnowed purity in love.
Of that self-blood that first gave life to you;
Of that true hand that fought Rome's quarrel out
Of that we hold an idol more than he?
Of the better yet to show shall show the better,
Of their observant toil, the enemies' weight-
Of things to come at large. It is suppos'd
Of this deep pit, poor Bassianus' grave.
Of this was Tamora delivered,
Of warlike Lucius, and appoint the meeting
Of will and judgment: how may I avoid,
Of wreakful heaven, whose bare unhoused trunks,
Offering the fortunes of his former days,
Office, and custom, in all line of order;
Oft have I digg'd up dead men from their graves,
Oft have you heard me wish for such an hour,
Oft have you-often have you thanks therefore-
Omission to do what is necessary
On Athens, ripe for stroke. Thou cold sciatica,
On height of our displeasure. Friend or brother,
On him that thus doth tyrannize o'er me.
On his fair worth and single chivalry.                     Exeunt
On one and other side, Troyan and Greek,
On special dignities, which vacant lie
On terms of base compulsion! Can it be
On those that are, revenge: crimes, like lands,
On thy low grave, on faults forgiven. Dead
On which heaven rides, knit all the Greekish ears
One fit to bandy with thy lawless sons,
One friend to take his fortune by the arm
One honest man- mistake me not, but one;
One hour's storm will drown the fragrant meads,
One noble man that hath one spark of fire
One that rejoices in the common wreck,
One touch of nature makes the whole world kin-
Only in bone, that none may look on you!
Only thus much I give your Grace to know:
Open the gates and let me in.
Or Bassianus so degenerate,
Or any one of you, chop off your hand
Or any token of thine honour else,
Or be ye not henceforth call'd my children.
Or brew it to a weak and colder palate,
Or brought a fagot to bright-burning Troy?
Or climb my palace, till from forth this place
Or else I will discover nought to thee.
Or else I'll call my brother back again,
Or else a breath. The combatants being kin
Or else disdainfully, which shall shake him more
Or else to heaven she heaves them for revenge.
Or else you love not; for to be wise and love
Or force of Greekish sinews; you shall do more
Or get some little knife between thy teeth
Or give me ribs of steel! I shall split all
Or had he heard the heavenly harmony
Or hedge aside from the direct forthright,
Or if not so, thy noble heart to break.
Or is it Dian, habited like her,
Or know not what we are.
Or like a star disorb'd? Nay, if we talk of reason,
Or made a toast for Neptune. Even so
Or make some sign how I may do thee ease.
Or more than any living man could bear.
Or rather call my thought a certain knowledge-
Or shall we bite our tongues, and in dumb shows
Or shall we cut away our hands like thine?
Or slunk not Saturnine, as Tarquin erst,
Or some of you shall smoke for it in Rome.
Or that persuasion could but thus convince me
Or that we women had men's privilege
Or those that with the fineness of their souls
Or who hath brought the fatal engine in
Or with our sighs we'll breathe the welkin dim
Or, at the least, make them his enemies.
Or, like a gallant horse fall'n in first rank,
Or, shedding, breed a nursery of like evil
Or, wanting strength to do thee so much good,
Our Empress' shame and stately Rome's disgrace!
Our Roman hunting.
Our Roman rites: Alarbus' limbs are lopp'd,
Our appertainings, visiting of him.
Our bloods are now in calm; and so long health!
Our captain hath in every figure skill,
Our doubtful hope, our convoy, and our bark.
Our enemies' pride; five times he hath return'd
Our father's tears despis'd, and basely cozen'd
Our firebrand brother, Paris, burns us all.
Our imputation shall be oddly pois'd
Our lock'd embrasures, strangles our dear vows
Our pastimes done, possess a golden slumber,
Our project's life this shape of sense assumes-
Our sufferance vainly. Now the time is flush,
Our terrible approach.
Ours is the fall, I fear; our foes the snare.         Exeunt
Ourself the merchant, and this sailing Pandar
Out of our virtues; who miscarrying,
Out of this fell devouring receptacle,
Out of those many regist'red in promise,
Out, rascal dogs!                [Beats and drives them out]
Out-swell the colic of puff Aquilon'd.
Outlives incertain pomp, is crown'd before.
Outliving beauty's outward, with a mind
Overcome with moss and baleful mistletoe;
Paint till a horse may mire upon your face.
Pard to the hind, or stepdame to her son'-
Paris is gor'd with Menelaus' horn.                      [Alarum]
Paris my lord, who is there in person; with him the mortal Venus,
Paris should do some vengeance on the Greeks;
Paris should ne'er retract what he hath done
Paris your brother, and Deiphobus,
Pass by, and curse thy fill; but pass, and stay not here thy
Pass the remainder of our hateful days?
Patricians and plebeians, we create
Patricians, draw your swords, and sheathe them not
Patroclus is a fool.
Patroclus kisses you.
Patron of virtue, Rome's best champion,
Pattern'd by that the poet here describes,
Peace and content be here! Lord Timon! Timon!
Peace, Troyan; lay thy finger on thy lips.
Peace, villain, peace!'- even thus he rates the babe-
Peaceful commerce from dividable shores,
Per Styga, per manes vehor.                           Exeunt
Perchance because she knows them innocent.
Performers of this heinous bloody deed?
Perhaps she cull'd it from among the rest.
Pity not honour'd age for his white beard:
Play the recanter, feeling in itself
Plead my successive title with your swords.
Plead your deserts in peace and humbleness.
Pleads your fair usage; and to Diomed
Please it our general pass strangely by him,
Please you walk in, my lords.                              Exeunt
Please you, therefore, draw nigh and take your places.
Plot some device of further misery
Pluck stout men's pillows from below their heads-
Pluck the grave wrinkled Senate from the bench
Pluck the lin'd crutch from thy old limping sire,
Pointing on him.
Poor Bassianus here lies murdered.
Poor I was slain when Bassianus died.
Poor harmless fly,
Poor honest lord, brought low by his own heart,
Poor rogue hereditary. Hence, be gone.
Pourest in the open ulcer of my heart-
Pours into captains' wounds? Banishment!
Power into will, will into appetite;
Praise him that gat thee, she that gave thee suck;
Prerogative of age, crowns, sceptres, laurels,
Prescribe to other, as each other's leech.
Present approach.
Presents that I intend to send them both.
Presents well worthy Rome's imperious lord;
Presuming on their changeful potency.
Prince Troilus, I have lov'd you night and day
Princely shall be thy usage every way.
Prizes of accident, as oft as merit;
Proclaim our honours, lords, with trump and drum.
Propos'd for the deserver! O gentle Pandar,
Proserpina's beauty-ay, that thou bark'st at him.
Provide thee two proper palfreys, black as jet,
Publius, Publius, hast thou done?
Publius, come hither, Caius, and Valentine.
Puffing at all, winnows the light away;
Pursue each other, or shall they be divided
Put armour on thine ears and on thine eyes,
Put forth toward Phrygia; and their vow is made
Put up thy gold. Go on. Here's gold. Go on.
Puts back leave-taking, justles roughly by
Quarrelling upon the head of valour; which, indeed,
Quite from their fixture! O, when degree is shak'd,
Quite out of fashion, like a rusty mail
Raise me this beggar and deny't that lord:
Ran mad for sorrow. That made me to fear;
Ransomless here we set our prisoners free.
Rapine and Murder, you are welcome too.
Rascals should have't. Do not assume my likeness.
Rather than render back, out with your knives
Rather than rob me of the people's hearts!
Ravish a maid, or plot the way to do it;
Ravish'd and wrong'd as Philomela was,
Read to her sons than she hath read to thee
Receive him then to favour, Saturnine,
Receive my tears, and seem to weep with me;
Receive the blood; and when that they are dead,
Receive them then, the tribute that I owe,
Reflect on Rome as Titan's rays on earth,
Relates in purpose only to Achilles.
Religion to the gods, peace, justice, truth,
Religious canons, civil laws, are cruel;
Religiously they ask a sacrifice.
Remaineth nought but to inter our brethren,
Remember, boys, I pour'd forth tears in vain
Remuneration for the thing it was;
Renowned Titus, flourishing in arms.
Rent off thy silver hair, thy other hand
Reply not in how many fathoms deep
Replying shrilly to the well-tun'd horns,
Repose in fame; none basely slain in brawls.
Rest on my word, and let not discontent
Retorts to chiding fortune.
Returns the good Andronicus to Rome,
Returns with precious lading to the bay
Reveal the damn'd contriver of this deed.
Revenge it, as you love your mother's life,
Revenge the heavens for old Andronicus!                 Exit
Revenge, which makes the foul offender quake.
Rich only in large hurts. All those for this?
Rich only to be wretched- thy great fortunes
Richer than sea and land? O theft most base,
Rid me these villains from your companies.
Rob one another. There's more gold. Cut throats;
Robs the vast sea; the moon's an arrant thief,
Rode on his tide. Go tell him this, and ad
Romans, forget your fealty to me.
Romans, of five and twenty valiant sons,
Rome and the righteous heavens be my judge
Rome could afford no tribunes like to these.
Rome shall record; and when I do forget
Rome's readiest champions, repose you here in rest,
Rome's royal mistress, mistress of my heart,
Rome, I have been thy soldier forty years,
Rome, be as just and gracious unto me
Rotten humidity; below thy sister's orb
Rouse him and give him note of our approach,
Ruthful to hear, yet piteously perform'd;
SATURNINUS.  [Reads]  'An if we miss to meet him handsomely,
Sad stories chanced in the times of old.
Safe out of Fortune's shot, and sits aloft,
Salutes each other with each other's form;
Sans check, to good and bad. But when the planets
Saturn is dominator over mine.
Save these men's looks; who do, methinks, find out
Save thou the child, so we may all be safe.
Say that the Emperor requests a parley
Say, wall-ey'd slave, whither wouldst thou convey
Say, who art thou that lately didst descend
Scarce is dividant- touch them with several fortunes:
Scatter'd by winds and high tempestuous gusts?
Scorn'dst our brain's flow, and those our droplets which
Seals a commission to a blank of danger;
Secure from worldly chances and mishaps!
Secure of thunder's crack or lightning flash,
Security, I'll pawn my victories, all
See here in bloody lines I have set down;
See how my wretched sister sobs and weeps.
See, Lucius, see how much she makes of thee.
See, here he comes, and I must ply my theme.
See, here's 'To Jove' and this 'To Mercury';
See, see!
See, see, thou hast shot off one of Taurus' horns.
Seeing his reputation touch'd to death,
Seek not my name. A plague consume you wicked caitiffs left!
Seeking to hide herself as doth the deer
Seest thou this letter? Take it up, I pray thee,
Send thee by me, their Tribune and their trust,
Send thy brass voice through all these lazy tents;
Sends thee this word, that, if thou love thy sons,
Sent by the heavens for Prince Saturnine,
Serving alike in sorrow. Leak'd is our bark;
Set deadly enmity between two friends;
Set fire on barns and hay-stacks in the night,
Set them into confounding odds, that beasts
Sets all on hazard-and hither am I come
Settlest admired reverence in a slave.
Severals and generals of grace exact,
Shake in and out the rivet. And at this sport
Shaken with sorrows in ungrateful Rome.
Shall I endure this monstrous villainy?
Shall I have justice? What says Jupiter?
Shall I speak for thee? Shall I say 'tis so?
Shall be no shelter to these outrages;
Shall be struck off.' Hector, what say you to't?
Shall carry from me to the Empress' sons
Shall from your neck unloose his amorous fold,
Shall make it good or do his best to do it:
Shall make their harbour in our town till we
Shall more obey than to the edge of steel
Shall not be sent. My hand will serve the turn,
Shall not so stale his palm, nobly acquir'd,
Shall pass his quarter or offend the stream
Shall pierce a jot. There's gold to pay thy soldiers.
Shall pride carry it?
Shall quite strike off all service I have done
Shall seize this prey out of his father's hands.
Shall she live to betray this guilt of ours-
Shall sit and pant in your great chairs of ease,
Shall thy good uncle and thy brother Lucius
Shall to the edge of all extremity
Shall we be thus afflicted in his wreaks,
Shame, that they wanted cunning, in excess
She hath not given so many good words breath
She is Lavinia, therefore must be lov'd.
She is a theme of honour and renown,
She is a woman, therefore may be won;
She is a woman, therefore may be woo'd;
She is as far high-soaring o'er thy praises
She is delivered, lord; she is delivered.
She is the weeping welkin, I the earth;
She is thy enemy and I thy friend.
She laugh'd, and told the Moor he should not choose
She says she drinks no other drink but tears,
She shall be priz'd. But that you say 'Be't so,'
She swooned almost at my pleasing tale,
She whom the spital-house and ulcerous sores
She will a handmaid be to his desires,
She would applaud Andronicus' conceit.
She's with the lion deeply still in league,
Sheathing the steel in my advent'rous body.
Shed on this earth for thy return to Rome.
Should be shut up-hear what Ulysses speaks.
Should drive upon thy new-transformed limbs,
Should have hare hearts, would they but fat their thoughts
Should he scape Hector fair. If he were foil'd,
Should hold up high in brass; and such again
Should lift their bosoms higher than the shores,
Should lose their names, and so should justice too.
Should once set footing in your generous bosoms?
Should rob my bed-mate of my company.
Should straight fall mad or else die suddenly.
Should with a bond of air, strong as the axle-tree
Should yet be hungry! Common mother, thou,         [Digging]
Show not their mealy wings but to the summer;
Since riches point to misery and contempt?
Since the first sword was drawn about this question,
Since things in motion sooner catch the eye
Single you thither then this dainty doe,
Sir Valour dies; cries 'O, enough, Patroclus;
Sir boy, let me see your archery;
Sirrah, what tidings? Have you any letters?
Sirs, drag them from the pit unto the prison;
Sirs, help our uncle to convey him in.
Sirs, stop their mouths, let them not speak to me;
Sirs, take you to your tools. You, cousins, shall
Sith every action that hath gone before,
Sith priest and holy water are so near,
Slink all away; leave their false vows with him,
Sly frantic wretch, that holp'st to make me great,
Smells from the general weal. Make curl'd-pate ruffians bald,
So I might have your company in hell
So Tamora.
So are they all; for every grise of fortune
So be it; either to the uttermost,
So cries a pig prepared to the spit.
So do each lord; and either greet him not,
So doubly seconded with will and power,
So great as our dread father's, in a scale
So his familiars to his buried fortunes
So madly hot that no discourse of reason,
So mainly as my merit. I cannot sing,
So much for Nestor.
So near the Emperor's palace dare ye draw
So noble a master fall'n! All gone, and not
So pale did shine the moon on Pyramus
So please you, save the thanks this prince expects.
So rich advantage of a promis'd glory
So shall each lord of Greece, from tent to tent.
So sweet a death as hanging presently.
So that perforce you must needs stay a time.
So that the ram that batters down the wall,
So thou destroy Rapine and Murder there.
So thou refuse to drink my dear sons' blood.
So thou wilt send thy gentle heart before
So to be valiant is no praise at all.
So trouble me no more, but get you gone.
So true, so just, and now so comfortable?
So, traitor, then she comes when she is thence.
So.
Soft infancy, that nothing canst but cry,
Soft, take thy physic first; thou too, and thou.
Soldiers should brook as little wrongs as gods.         Exit
Some beast rear'd this; here does not live a man.
Some book there is that she desires to see.
Some bring the murdered body, some the murderers;
Some never-heard-of torturing pain for them.
Some of the chiefest princes of the Goths;
Some say that ravens foster forlorn children,
Some stay to see him fast'ned in the earth.
Some touches of remorse, or is your blood
Something not worth in me such rich beholding
Somewhat too early for new-married ladies.
Somewhither would she have thee go with her.
Sons to Tamora:
Sons to Titus Andronicus:
Sons, let it be your charge, as it is ours,
Sorrow concealed, like an oven stopp'd,
Sow all th' Athenian bosoms, and their crop
Spare thy Athenian cradle, and those kin
Speak to them, noble Timon.
Speak, Lavinia, what accursed hand
Speak, Queen of Goths, dost thou applaud my choice?
Speak, Romans, speak; and if you say we shall,
Speak, brother, hast thou hurt thee with the fall?
Speak, gentle niece. What stern ungentle hands
Speaking in deeds and deedless in his tongue;
Speechless complainer, I will learn thy thought;
Spent more in her defence. But, worthy Hector,
Sperr up the sons of Troy.
Spotted, detested, and abominable.
Stab them, or tear them on thy chariot wheels;
Stand all aloof; but, uncle, draw you near
Stand by our Ajax. As you and Lord ]Eneas
Stand gracious to the rites that we intend!
Stand up.
Stay not; fly whilst thou art blest and free.
Stay, I will lend thee money, borrow none.       [Throws the
Stay, murderous villains, will you kill your brother!
Staying for waftage. O, be thou my Charon,
Still serve him with my life. My dearest master!
Stood on her cheeks, as doth the honey dew
Stop close their mouths, let them not speak a word.
Straight will I bring you to the loathsome pit
Strange times, that weep with laughing, not with weeping!
Strength should be lord of imbecility,
Striving to make an ugly deed look fair;
Struck pale and bloodless; and thy brother, I,
Success or loss, what is or is not, serves
Successful in the battles that he fights,
Such and no other than event doth form it;
Such things as might offend the weakest spleen
Such to-be-pitied and o'er-wrested seeming
Such valour in the bearing, what make we
Such violent hands upon her tender life.
Sufficeth not that we are brought to Rome
Sun, hide thy beams. Timon hath done his reign.
Sung thee asleep, his loving breast thy pillow;
Supply his life, or that which can command it.
Surety secure; but modest doubt is call'd
Surpris'd him suddenly, and brought him hither
Surprise me to the very brink of tears.
Suspect still comes where an estate is least.
Sweet blowse, you are a beauteous blossom sure.
Sweet cell of virtue and nobility,
Sweet huntsman- Bassianus 'tis we mean-
Sweet mercy is nobility's true badge.
Sweet poetry and Tully's Orator.
Sweet scrolls to fly about the streets of Rome!
Sweet varied notes, enchanting every ear!
Sweet, rouse yourself; and the weak wanton Cupid
Swooning destruction; or some joy too fine,
T' accept my grief, and whilst this poor wealth lasts
T' appease their groaning shadows that are gone.
T' invite the Troyan lords, after the combat,
TAMORA, with AEMILIUS, TRIBUNES, SENATORS, and others
Take but degree away, untune that string,
Take my deserts to his, and join 'em both;
Take this of me: Lucrece was not more chaste
Take thou that too, with multiplying bans.
Take up this good old man, and cheer the heart
Take wreak on Rome for this ingratitude,
Tam lentus audis scelera? tam lentus vides?
Tamer than sleep, fonder than ignorance,
Taught thee to make vast Neptune weep for aye
Tears of true joy for his return to Rome.
Teem with new monsters whom thy upward face
Teems and feeds all; whose self-same mettle,
Tell Athens, in the sequence of degree
Tell him Revenge is come to join with him,
Tell him it is for justice and for aid,
Tell him it was a hand that warded him
Tell him the Emperor and the Empress too
Tell me, Andronicus, doth this motion please thee?
Tell me, Apollo, for thy Daphne's love,
Tell the Empress from me I am of age
Tell them there I have gold; look, so I have.
Tell us what Sinon hath bewitch'd our ears,
Tell you the lady what she is to do
Ten thousand swelling toads, as many urchins,
Ten thousand worse than ever yet I did
Ten years are spent since first he undertook
Tend'ring our sister's honour and our own.
Terras Astrea reliquit,
Th' advantage of the time prompts me aloud
Th' effects of sorrow for his valiant sons
Th' imaginary relish is so sweet
Th' immortal gods that hear you. Spare your oaths;
Th' unkindest beast more kinder than mankind.
Th' unknown Ajax. Heavens, what a man is there!
Th' unworthiest shows as fairly in the mask.
Than Cressid borne from Troy.
Than Hector is. The wound of peace is surety,
Than all the island kings-disarm great Hector.
Than baits to fish or honey-stalks to sheep,
Than breath or pen can give expressure to.
Than by the tiger; but when the splitting wind
Than ever Greek did couple in his arms;
Than foemen's marks upon his batt'red shield,
Than hands or tongue, her spotless chastity,
Than hew to't with thy sword.
Than his that shakes for age and feebleness.
Than if not look'd on. I will lead the way.
Than in the glass of Pandar's praise may be,
Than in the note of judgment; and worthier than himself
Than in the pride and salt scorn of his eyes,
Than is Prometheus tied to Caucasus.
Than prosecute the meanest or the best
Than the performance of our heaving spleens,
Than their offence can weigh down by the dram;
Than this Lavinia, Bassianus' love.
Than to make up a free determination
Than what stirs not. The cry went once on thee,
Than where swine feed!
Than wife is to the husband? If this law
Than will preserve just so much strength in us
Than wots the miller of; and easy it is
Than youthful April shall with all his show'rs.
That 'gainst the stream of virtue they may strive
That 'twixt his mental and his active parts
That Chiron and the damn'd Demetrius
That Hector, by the fifth hour of the sun,
That I have reconcil'd your friends and you.
That I may slumber an eternal sleep!
That I may strike at Athens. I'll cheer up
That I may turn me to each one of you
That I might love thee something.
That I might rail at him to ease my mind!
That I repair to Rome, I am content.
That I shall lose distinction in my joys;
That I will here dismiss my loving friends,
That I would choose, were I to choose anew.-
That Lucius' banishment was wrongfully,
That Rome is but a wilderness of tigers?
That Timon cares not. But if he sack fair Athens,
That after seven years' siege yet Troy walls stand;
That all the Greeks begin to worship Ajax,
That all the court may echo with the noise.
That all the tears that thy poor eyes let fall
That all with one consent praise new-born gawds,
That are without him, as place, riches, and favour,
That art thyself a man?
That bastes his arrogance with his own seam
That blabb'd them with such pleasing eloquence
That bloody mind, I think, they learn'd of me,
That both mine eyes were rainy like to his;
That both should speed?
That breath fame blows; that praise, sole pure, transcends.
That brought her for this high good turn so far?
That by a pace goes backward, with a purpose
That can from Hector bring those honours off,
That codding spirit had they from their mother,
That comes in likeness of a coal-black Moor.
That could have better sew'd than Philomel.
That death in me at others' lives may laugh.
That died by law for murder of our brother
That died in honour and Lavinia's cause.
That dies in tempest of thy angry frown.
That do contrive how many hands shall strike
That doth renew swifter than blood decays!
That down fell both the Ram's horns in the court;
That end upon them should be executed.
That ever Hector and Achilles meet;
That ever Timon was. Shame not these woods
That ever death should let life bear his name,
That ever ear did hear to such effect;
That ever eye with sight made heart lament!
That feeds and breeds by a composture stol'n
That find such cruel battle here within?
That for her love such quarrels may be broach'd
That fram'd him thus. Time, with his fairer hand,
That from it all consideration slips-
That gave thee life when well he might have slain thee,
That gave't surmised shape. Why then, you princes,
That girdles in those wolves, dive in the earth
That give a coasting welcome ere it comes,
That gives our Troy, our Rome, the civil wound.
That gives sweet tidings of the sun's uprise?
That granted, how canst thou believe an oath?
That hath a stomach; and such a one that dare
That hath aspir'd to Solon's happiness
That hath been breeder of these dire events.
That hath dishonoured all our family;
That hath express'd himself in all his deeds
That hath more scars of sorrow in his heart
That hath receiv'd some unrecuring wound.
That hath thrown down so many enemies,
That hath to this maturity blown up
That have outliv'd the eagle, page thy heels
That have preserv'd her welfare in my blood
That have their alms out of the Empress' chest.
That he hath breath'd in my dishonour here.
That he is worshipp'd in a baser temple
That he may never more false title plead,
That he thereby may have a likely guess
That he's a made-up villain.
That highly may advantage thee to hear;
That holds his honour higher than his ease,
That if he overhold his price so much
That in their country did them that disgrace
That in your country's service drew your swords;
That is another's lawful promis'd love.                 Exit
That it enchants my sense; what will it be
That knows his valour and knows not his fear,
That left the camp to sin in Lucrece' bed?
That lies on Dian's lap! thou visible god,
That loves his mistress more than in confession
That makes the Senate ugly.
That makes the wappen'd widow wed again-
That matter needless, of importless burden,
That means not, hath not, or is not in love.
That mightily deceives you.
That mine own use invites me to cut down,
That most pure spirit of sense-behold itself,
That my integrity and truth to you
That my report is just and full of truth.
That nature's fragile vessel doth sustain
That never knew but better, is some burden.
That next by him beneath; so ever step,
That nice-preserved honesty of yours.
That no man is the lord of anything,
That noble-minded Titus means to thee!
That nothing but himself which looks like man
That numberless upon me stuck, as leaves
That one by one pursue; if you give way,
That one meets Hector; if none else, I am he.
That quarrels at self-breath. Imagin'd worth
That robb'd Andronicus of his good hand;
That saidst I begg'd the empire at thy hands.
That scolds against the quality of flesh
That see I by our faces. We are fellows still,
That seeks his praise more than he fears his peril,
That shall distil from these two ancient urns,
That she belov'd knows nought that knows not this:
That she was never yet that ever knew
That shone so brightly when this boy was got,
That should have murdered Bassianus here.
That slew himself; and wise Laertes' son
That slightly shakes his parting guest by th' hand;
That so degenerate a strain as this
That so my sad decrees may fly away
That so the shadows be not unappeas'd,
That sold'rest close impossibilities,
That stay at home, if bearing carry it;
That swore to ride before him to the field.
That tempts most cunningly. But be not tempted.
That the bleak air, thy boisterous chamberlain,
That the bless'd gods, as angry with my fancy,
That the whole life of Athens were in this!
That their negotiations all must slack
That their society, as their friendship, may
That there's no maculation in thy heart;
That these great tow'rs, trophies, and schools, should fall
That this fell fault of my accursed sons-
That thou adorest and hast in reverence-
That thou art even natural in thine art.
That thou could'st say 'This hand is Grecian all,
That thou shalt know, Troyan, he is awake,
That thou turn rascal; hadst thou wealth again
That thou wilt never render to me more!
That thou wilt use the wars as thy redress
That through the window bars bore at men's eyes
That time, acquaintance, custom, and condition,
That to her brother which I said to thee:
That touches this my first-born son and heir.
That ware the imperial diadem of Rome;
That we come short of our suppose so far
That we have better men. But, hit or miss,
That we have stol'n what we do fear to keep!
That we may hew his limbs, and on a pile
That we may know the traitors and the truth!
That we will prosecute, by good advice,
That were to enlard his fat-already pride,
That what we did was mildly as we might,
That what you cannot as you would achieve,
That which I show, heaven knows, is merely love,
That will not suffer you to square yourselves,
That with his pretty buzzing melody
That with his sons, a terror to our foes,
That woe is me to think upon thy woes,
That womanhood denies my tongue to tell:
That wound, beyond their feeling, to the quick.
That you affect; and so must you resolve
That you are odd, and he is even with you.
That you are thieves profess'd, that you work not
That you create our Emperor's eldest son,
That you will be more mild and tractable.
That you withdraw you and abate your strength,
That your activity may defeat and quell
That's done-as near as the extremest ends
That, in the rescue of Lavinia,
That, like the stately Phoebe 'mongst her nymphs,
That, through the sight I bear in things to come,
The Athenians both within and out that wall!
The Bull, being gall'd, gave Aries such a knock
The Emperor himself, and all thy foes;
The Emperor's court is like the house of Fame,
The Empress sends it thee, thy stamp, thy seal,
The Goths have gathered head; and with a power
The Grecian Diomed, and our Antenor
The Grecian dames are sunburnt and not worth
The Grecian youths are full of quality;
The Greeks upon advice did bury Ajax,
The Lady Cressida.
The Prince must think me tardy and remiss,
The Roman Emperor greets you all by me;
The Tribune and his nephews kneel for grace.
The Tribunes hear you not, no man is by,
The ample proposition that hope makes
The baby figure of the giant mas
The basin that receives your guilty blood.
The beacon of the wise, the tent that searches
The bearer knows not, but commends itself
The beauty that is borne here in the face
The beggar native honour.
The birds chant melody on every bush;
The bitter disposition of the time
The blot and enemy to our general name!
The bounteous housewife Nature on each bush
The captainship, thou shalt be met with thanks,
The cause were known to them it most concerns;
The chafed boar, the mountain lioness,
The close enacts and counsels of thy heart!
The closing up of our most wretched eyes.
The common stroke of war.
The common voice do cry it shall be so.
The complot of this timeless tragedy;
The cordial of mine age to glad my heart!
The cruel father and his traitorous sons,
The crying babe controll'd with this discourse:
The cygnet's down is harsh, and spirit of sense
The dam will wake; and if she wind ye once,
The dismal'st day is this that e'er I saw,
The dull and factious nobles of the Greeks
The eagle suffers little birds to sing,
The eldest son of this distressed queen.
The enemies' drum is heard, and fearful scouring
The enemy flying.
The enterprise is sick! How could communities,
The eye of majesty.
The feast is ready which the careful Titus
The fever whereof all our power is sick.
The fields are fragrant, and the woods are green.
The fields are near, and you are gallant grooms.
The fineness of which metal is not found
The fool slides o'er the ice that you should break.          Exit
The forest walks are wide and spacious,
The former man may make him. Bring us to him,
The fresh and yet unbruised Greeks do pitch
The gates shut on me, and turn'd weeping out,
The gentle Thetis, and anon behold
The gilded newt and eyeless venom'd worm,
The glory of our Troy doth this day lie
The gods confound- hear me, you good gods all-
The goodliest weapons of his armoury
The greater scorns the lesser. Not nature,
The green leaves quiver with the cooling wind
The grief is fine, full, perfect, that I taste,
The hard and soft, seem all affin'd and kin.
The heavens themselves, the planets, and this centre,
The herd hath more annoyance by the breeze
The hope of Rome; for so he bid me say;
The icy precepts of respect, but followed
The imperial seat, to virtue consecrate,
The issue of an irreligious Moor,
The issue of your proper wisdoms rate,
The keeping.
The kiss you take is better than you give;
The knife that made it.
The knight oppos'd.
The large Achilles, on his press'd bed lolling,
The last true duties of thy noble son!
The latest of my wealth I'll share amongst you.
The laws, your curb and whip, in their rough power
The least of these unspeakable deserts,
The lees and dregs of a flat tamed piece;
The like allayment could I give my grief.
The lion, mov'd with pity, did endure
The love that lean'd on them as slippery too,
The lustre in your eye, heaven in your cheek,
The midwife and the nurse well made away,
The milk thou suck'dst from her did turn to marble,
The monstrous bulk of this ingratitude
The moon into salt tears; the earth's a thief,
The mouths, the tongues, the eyes, and hearts of men
The noblest hateful love, that e'er I heard of.
The oaks bear mast, the briars scarlet hips;
The obligation of our blood forbids
The ocean swells not so as Aaron storms.
The one almost as infinite as all,
The one is Murder, and Rape is the other's name;
The one is filling still, never complete;
The other blank as nothing. Weigh him well,
The other rotted with delicious feed.
The other, at high wish. Best state, contentless,
The palace full of tongues, of eyes, and ears;
The passage and whole carriage of this action
The past-proportion of his infinite,
The people will accept whom he admits.
The people's hearts, and wean them from themselves.
The place which I have feasted, does it now,
The pleasures such a beauty brings with it;
The poor remainder of Andronici
The present eye praises the present object.
The primogenity and due of birth,
The princes orgillous, their high blood chaf'd,
The providence that's in a watchful state
The ravish'd Helen, Menelaus' queen,
The reasons are more potent and heroical.
The reasons you allege do more conduce
The reverend'st throat in Athens. So I leave you
The scope of justice; till now, myself, and such
The sea's a thief, whose liquid surge resolves
The seas and winds, old wranglers, took a truce,
The self-same gods that arm'd the Queen of Troy
The senator shall bear contempt hereditary,
The senators with one consent of love
The sinew and the forehand of our host,
The snakes lie rolled in the cheerful sun;
The sort to fight with Hector. Among ourselves
The source of all erection. There's more gold.
The specialty of rule hath been neglected;
The splinter of a lance. Even so much.
The story of that baleful burning night,
The strong-ribb'd bark through liquid mountains cut,
The sug'red game before thee. But myself,
The sun's a thief, and with his great attraction
The sweet degrees that this brief world affords
The thing I shall repent. See, see, your silence,
The thing he means to kill, more excellently.
The thing whereat it trembles by surmise;
The trees, though summer, yet forlorn and lean,
The trumpets show the Emperor is at hand.
The turbulent surge shall cover. Thither come,
The unity and married calm of states
The venomous malice of my swelling heart!
The very wings of reason to his heels
The vigour and the picture of my youth.
The villain is alive in Titus' house,
The voice again; or, like a gate of steel
The vow is made. Come, brother, take a head,
The wand'ring prince and Dido once enjoyed,
The want that makes him lean. Who dares, who dares,
The want whereof doth daily make revolt
The which, [To AGAMEMNON] most mighty, for thy place and sway,
The whilst their own birds famish in their nests;
The wide world's Emperor, do I consecrate
The wife I chose? There can be no evasion
The wise and fool, the artist and unread,
The woefull'st man that ever liv'd in Rome.
The woods are ruthless, dreadful, deaf, and dull.
The world's large spaces cannot parallel.
The worse to her the better lov'd of me.
The worst that man can breathe,
The worthiness of praise distains his worth,
The yielding of her up?
The youthful Phoebus.
Thee never, nor thy traitorous haughty sons,
Their brave pavilions: Priam's six-gated city,
Their coin upon large interest, I myself
Their crownets regal from th' Athenian bay
Their fears of hostile strokes, their aches, losses,
Their mother's bedchamber should not be safe
Their pangs of love, with other incident throes
Their war-like fraughtage. Now on Dardan plains
Then at my suit look graciously on him;
Then be my passions bottomless with them.
Then cheer thy spirit; for know thou, Emperor,
Then do we sin against our own estate
Then everything includes itself in power,
Then give me leave; for losers will have leave
Then have I kept it to a worthy end.
Then hear me speak indifferently for all;
Then into limits could I bind my woes.
Then is all safe, the anchor in the port.
Then let him know- and tell him Timon speaks it
Then let my father's honours live in me,
Then let the ladies tattle what they please.
Then marvel not, thou great and complete man,
Then must my earth with her continual tears
Then must my sea be moved with her sighs;
Then pardon me for reprehending thee,
Then should not we be tir'd with this ado.
Then they could smile, and fawn upon his debts,
Then though my heart's content firm love doth bear,
Then thus I thump it down.
Then what should war be? This fell whore of thine
Then which way shall I find Revenge's cave?
Then, Aaron, arm thy heart and fit thy thoughts
Then, Timon, presently prepare thy grave;
Then, if thou grant'st th'art a man, I have forgot thee.
Then, if you will elect by my advice,
Then, madam, stand resolv'd, but hope withal
Then, when you come to Pluto's region,
There greet in silence, as the dead are wont,
There is a law in each well-order'd nation
There is a mystery-with whom relation
There is a queen, attended by a Moor;
There is enough written upon this earth
There is no lady of more softer bowels,
There is not so much left to furnish out
There let him stand and rave and cry for food.
There let them bide until we have devis'd
There lurks a still and dumb-discoursive devil
There serve your lust, shadowed from heaven's eye,
There shall we consummate our spousal rites.
There speak and strike, brave boys, and take your turns;
There to dispose this treasure in mine arms,
There was never a truer rhyme. Let us cast away nothing, for we
There were no suns to borrow of.
There will the lovely Roman ladies troop;
There's for thyself, and that's for Tamora.
There's language in her eye, her cheek, her lip,
There's meed for meed, death for a deadly deed.
There's not a god left unsolicited.
There's not a hollow cave or lurking-place,
There's not a whittle in th' unruly camp
There's not the meanest spirit on our party
There's nothing level in our cursed natures
Therefore 'tis meet Achilles meet not Hector.
Therefore I tell my sorrows to the stones;
Therefore I urge thy oath. For that I know
Therefore away with her, and use her as you will;
Therefore no kiss.
Therefore this maxim out of love I teach:
Therefore, great lords, be, as your titles witness,
Thersites.                                                   Exit
Thersites?
These are their brethren, whom your Goths beheld
These broken limbs again into one body;
These lovers cry, O ho, they die!
These miseries are more than may be borne.
These quarrels must be quietly debated.
These sorrowful drops upon thy blood-stain'd face,
These that I bring unto their latest home,
These that survive let Rome reward with love;
These tidings nip me, and I hang the head
These two have 'ticed me hither to this place.
These well express in thee thy latter spirits.
These words, these looks, infuse new life in me.
These wrongs unspeakable, past patience,
They are at hand and ready to effect it.
They call him Ajax.
They call him Troilus, and on him erect
They call this bed-work, mapp'ry, closet-war;
They clap the lubber Ajax on the shoulder,
They cut thy sister's tongue, and ravish'd her,
They have been violent to me and mine.
They hither march amain, under conduct
They lie indrench'd. I tell thee I am mad
They never do beget a coal-black calf.
They never flatter'd thee. What hast thou given?
They place before his hand that made the engine,
They ravish'd her, and cut away her tongue;
They shall be ready at your Highness' will
They think my little stomach to the war
They told me, here, at dead time of the night,
They would not mark me; if they did mark,
They would not pity me; yet plead I must,
They're loving, well compos'd with gifts of nature,
Things won are done; joy's soul lies in the doing.
Think it a bastard whom the oracle
Think it an altar, and thy brother Troilus
Think thy slave man rebels, and by thy virtue
This 'To Apollo'; this 'To the God of War'-
This Ajax is half made of Hector's blood;
This after me. I have writ my name
This before all the world do I prefer;
This blended knight, half Troyan and half Greek.
This brave shall oft make thee to hide thy head.
This cause of Rome, and chastised with arms
This chaos, when degree is suffocate,
This day all quarrels die, Andronicus;
This day shall be a love-day, Tamora.
This discord's ground, the music would not please.
This do thou for my love; and so let him,
This done, see that you take no longer days,
This goddess, this Semiramis, this nymph,
This goodly summer with your winter mix'd.
This growing image of thy fiend-like face?
This is the day of doom for Bassianus;
This is the feast that I have bid her to,
This is the hole where Aaron bid us hide him.
This is the pearl that pleas'd your Empress' eye;
This is the pit and this the elder-tree.
This is the tragic tale of Philomel
This lord go to him! Jupiter forbid,
This maugre all the world will I keep safe,
This minion stood upon her chastity,
This monument five hundred years hath stood,
This noble gentleman, Lord Titus here,
This one hand yet is left to cut your throats,
This par]iament of white and spotless hue;
This pretty brabble will undo us all.
This prince in justice seizeth but his own.
This quarrel would excite? Yet, I protest,
This ravenous tiger, this accursed devil;
This sandy plot is plain; guide, if thou canst,
This scattered corn into one mutual sheaf,
This siren that will charm Rome's Saturnine,
This slave-like habit and these looks of care?
This valley fits the purpose passing well.
This vengeance on me had they executed.
This way to death my wretched sons are gone;
This way, or not at all, stand you in hope.
This wicked Emperor may have shipp'd her hence;
This yellow slave
This, I presume, will wake him.                            Exeunt
Those enemies of Timon's and mine own,
Those scraps are good deeds past, which are devour'd
Those that would mischief me than those that do!
Those wounds heal ill that men do give themselves;
Thou and thy faction shall repent this rape.
Thou art a Roman- be not barbarous.
Thou art a slave whom Fortune's tender arm
Thou art an exile, and thou must not stay.
Thou art, great lord, my father's sister's son,
Thou blowest for Hector.                         [Trumpet sounds]
Thou canst not come to me- I come to thee.        [Falls in]
Thou canst not strike it thus to make it still.
Thou com'st not to be made a scorn in Rome-
Thou common whore of mankind, that puts odds
Thou counterfeit'st most lively.
Thou dost affect my manners and dost use them.
Thou dost not slumber: see thy two sons' heads,
Thou dreadful Ajax, that the appalled air
Thou ever young, fresh, lov'd, and delicate wooer,
Thou gav'st thine ears, like tapsters that bade welcome,
Thou great commander, nerve and bone of Greece,
Thou great defender of this Capitol,
Thou great, and wise, to hear Ulysses speak.
Thou hadst been a knave and flatterer.
Thou hast no hands to wipe away thy tears,
Thou hast the odds of me; therefore no more.
Thou know'st our meaning. Look for thy reward
Thou lay'st in every gash that love hath given me
Thou mightst have sooner got another service;
Thou rather shalt enforce it with thy smile
Thou shalt inquire him out among the Goths.
Thou shalt not sigh, nor hold thy stumps to heaven,
Thou should'st desire to die, being miserable.
Thou tedious rogue! I am sorry I shall lose
Thou wast born to conquer my country.
Thou wilt be throng'd to shortly.
Though Bassianus be the Emperor's brother,
Though chance of war hath wrought this change of cheer,
Though his right arm might purchase his own time,
Though in and of him there be much consisting,
Though less than yours in past, must o'ertop yours;
Though the great bulk Achilles be thy guard,
Though they are made and moulded of things past,
Though thou abhorr'dst in us our human griefs,
Threat'ning the welkin with his big-swol'n face?
Thrice-fam'd beyond, beyond all erudition;
Thrice-noble Titus, spare my first-born son.
Thrust those reproachful speeches down his throat
Thus much of this will make black white, foul fair,
Thus once again says Nestor from the Greeks:
Thus part we rich in sorrow, parting poor.
Thus says Aeneas, one that knows the youth
Thus would I eat it.                         [Eating a root]
Thy beagles with thee.
Thy brother Marcus tenders on thy lips.
Thy brothers are condemn'd, and dead by this.
Thy child shall live, and I will see it nourish'd.
Thy flatterers yet wear silk, drink wine, lie soft,
Thy gravestone daily; make thine epitaph,
Thy grief their sports, thy resolution mock'd,
Thy husband he is dead, and for his death
Thy latest words. In the reproof of chance
Thy life-blood out; if Aaron now be wise,
Thy mistress is o' th' brothel. Son of sixteen,
Thy name and honourable family,
Thy napkin cannot drink a tear of mine,
Thy nature did commence in sufferance; time
Thy niece and I, poor creatures, want our hands,
Thy noble brother Titus and his sons,
Thy other banish'd son with this dear sight
Thy sons make pillage of her chastity,
Thy spacious and dilated parts. Here's Nestor,
Thy temples should be planted presently
Thy topless deputation he puts on;
Thy warlike hand, thy mangled daughter here;
Tigers must prey, and Rome affords no prey
Till Saturninus be Rome's Emperor.
Till all the Andronici be made away.
Till all these mischiefs be return'd again
Till he be brought unto the Empress' face
Till he behold them formed in th' applause
Till he communicate his parts to others;
Till it hath travell'd, and is mirror'd there
Till now you have gone on and fill'd the time
Till the fresh taste be taken from that clearness,
Till the high fever seethe your blood to froth,
Till thou art here aloft, or I below.
Till time beget some careful remedy.
Till we with trophies do adorn thy tomb.
Till you know better how to handle it.
Timon hath made his everlasting mansion
Timon is dead, who hath outstretch'd his span.
Timon will to the woods, where he shall find
Timon.
Titus Andronicus, the people of Rome,
Titus, unkind, and careless of thine own,
To Agamemnon. Go we to him straight.
To Calchas' house, and there to render him,
To Tenedos they come,
To angle for your thoughts; but you are wise-
To answer for his love, tell him from me
To answer their suspicion with their lives.
To attend the Emperor's person carefully.
To back thy quarrels, whatsoe'er they be.               Exit
To be a speaker free: when I am hence
To be a torment to mine enemies?
To be a warrior and command a camp.
To be adjudg'd some direful slaught'ring death,
To be another's fool. I would be gone.
To be controll'd in that he frankly gave.
To be dishonoured by my sons in Rome!
To be in anger is impiety;
To be reveng'd on Rome and Saturnine.                   Exit
To beautify thy triumphs, and return
To bed, to bed! Sleep kill those pretty eyes,
To beg relief among Rome's enemies;
To bid Aeneas tell the tale twice o'er
To blench from this and to stand firm by honour.
To brave the Tribune in his brother's hearing.
To bring it into danger.
To bring manslaughter into form and set
To bury so much gold under a tree
To call for recompense. Appear it to your mind
To call together all his state of war;
To call upon him; he hopes it is no other
To calm this tempest whirling in the court;
To castigate thy pride, 'twere well; but thou
To come as humbly as they us'd to creep
To cool this heat, a charm to calm these fits,
To curb those raging appetites that are
To cure thy o'ernight's surfeit? Call the creatures
To do myself this reason and this right.
To do some fatal execution?
To do this outrage; and it now is done.
To doubtful fortunes, sequest'ring from me all
To dusty nothing-yet let memory
To ease the gnawing vulture of thy mind
To ease their stomachs with their bitter tongues.
To entertain me as your steward still.
To entertain your Highness and your Empress.
To envious and calumniating Time.
To every purpose! O thou touch of hearts!
To every ticklish reader! Set them down
To feed for aye her lamp and flames of love;
To fight for and maintain.
To find another that is like to thee,
To find persistive constancy in men;
To find thy brother Bassianus dead.
To gaze upon a ruinous monastery;
To give me now a little benefit
To give thee nightly visitation.
To gratify your honourable youth,
To greet the warriors. Sweet Helen, I must woo you
To guard a thing not ours, nor worth to us,
To hale thy vengeful waggon swift away,
To have her back return'd. Thus to persist
To have his pomp, and all what state compounds,
To have his princely paws par'd all away.
To heal Rome's harms and wipe away her woe!
To hear the wooden dialogue and sound
To help unarm our Hector. His stubborn buckles,
To him that flourish'd for her with his sword.
To him that for your honour and your state
To him that victory commands? Or do you purpose
To his experienc'd tongue-yet let it please both,
To holy altars.
To hover on the dreadful shore of Styx?
To hunt the panther and the hart with me,
To it, boy. Marcus, loose when I bid.
To join with him and right his heinous wrongs.
To justice, continence, and nobility;
To keep her constancy in plight and youth,
To keep mine own- excuse it how she can.
To kill, I grant, is sin's extremest gust;
To knaves and all approachers. 'Tis most just
To lay a complot to betray thy foes.
To live and burn in everlasting fire,
To love-sick Dido's sad attending ear
To make it gracious. For my private part,
To make it known to us.
To make the service greater than the god-I
To make this banquet, which I wish may prove
To make us wonder'd at in time to come.
To match us in comparisons with dirt,
To melt in showers. Thy grandsire lov'd thee well;
To mount aloft with thy imperial mistress,
To others' eyes; nor doth the eye itself-
To our own selves bend we our needful talk.
To our pavilion shall I lead you, first.
To overbulk us all.
To overcome him. In that beastly fury
To pardon Mutius and to bury him.
To pluck proud Lucius from the warlike Goths.
To quit the bloody wrongs upon her foes.
To ransack Troy, within whose strong immures
To ransom my two nephews from their death;
To re-salute his country with his tears,
To requite me by making rich yourself.
To revenge is no valour, but to bear.
To rouse a Grecian that is true in love.
To ruffle in the commonwealth of Rome.
To ruminate strange plots of dire revenge;
To save my boy, to nourish and bring him up;
To save your brother from the sacrifice;
To say thou't enter friendly.
To scatter and disperse the giddy Goths,
To see great Hector in his weeds of peace;
To see her tears; but be your heart to them
To see the battle. Hector, whose patience
To see the general hunting in this forest?
To see these Grecian lords!-why, even already
To see thy noble uncle thus distract?
To see us here unarm'd. I have a woman's longing,
To send down justice for to wreak our wrongs.
To send for Lucius, thy thrice-valiant son,
To send their smiles before them to Achilles,
To serve and to deserve my mistress' grace;
To set his sense on the attentive bent,
To shame the zeal of my petition to the
To shed obsequious tears upon this trunk.
To show itself but pride; for supple knees
To sinewy Ajax. I will not praise thy wisdom,
To slay his daughter with his own right hand,
To some she-beggar and compounded thee
To speak with Timon.
To square for this? Would it offend you, then,
To stand the push and enmity of those
To steel a strong opinion to themselves?
To stir a mutiny in the mildest thoughts,
To stop affliction, let him take his haste,
To such as may the passive drugs of it
To sue, and be denied such common grace.
To talk with him, and to behold his visage,
To tell you, fair beholders, that our play
To tender objects, but he in heat of action
To th 'April day again. Come, damn'd earth,
To th' bottom of the worst. Let Helen go.
To that I call!  [To LAVINIA]  What, would'st thou kneel with me?
To that I'll urge him. Therefore thou shalt vow
To that which thou shalt hear of me anon.
To the conflicting elements expos'd,
To the first giver.
To the hot passion of distemp'red blood
To the monument of that Andronici
To the protection of the prosperous gods,
To the tub-fast and the diet.
To the whole race of mankind, high and low!
To thee be worship! and thy saints for aye
To their benumbed wills, resist the same;
To their subsequent volumes, there is seen
To their whole being! I am rapt, and cannot cover
To thine own lips again.
To this your son is mark'd, and die he must
To those that without heed do plunge into't.
To throw down Hector than Polyxena.
To tremble under Titus' threat'ning look.
To us in our election this day
To use as you think needful of the man.
To use between your strangeness and his pride,
To villainy and vengeance consecrate,
To wait upon this new-made emperess.
To wait, said I? To wanton with this queen,
To weaken and discredit our exposure,
To wear them like his raiment, carelessly,
To weep with them that weep doth ease some deal,
To what infectiously itself affects,
To what may be digested in a play.
To which the Grecians are most prompt and pregnant;
To whom I sued for my dear son's life;
To whom all sores lay siege, can bear great fortune
To whom the foragers shall all repair,
To wipe out our ingratitude with loves
To-morrow morning, call some knight to arms
To-morrow yield up rule, resign my life,
Together with a recompense more fruitful
Too headstrong for their mother. See, we fools!
Too subtle-potent, tun'd too sharp in sweetness,
Tortive and errant from his course of growth.
Toward thee forgetfulness too general, gross;
Traitor, restore Lavinia to the Emperor.
Transformed Timon to our city's love
Treason, my lord- Lavinia is surpris'd!
Tremble like aspen leaves upon a lute
Trim sport for them which had the doing of it.
Troilus for a copper nose.
Troilus had rather Troy were borne to Greece
Troilus shall be such to Cressid as what envy can say worst shall
Troilus, go thy way. Had I a sister were a grace or a daughter a
Troilus-
Troilus.
Troilus. 'Twill be his death; 'twill be his bane; he cannot bear
Trot, like a servile footman, all day long,
Troubled, confronted thus; and, for the extent
Troy in our weakness stands, not in her strength.
Troy must not be, nor goodly Ilion stand;
Troy, whosoever, and a proper man of person. When comes Troilus?
True swains in love shall in the world to come
Tut, I have done a thousand dreadful things
Two curs shall tame each other: pride alone
Two may keep counsel when the third's away:
Two of her brothers were condemn'd to death,
Two traded pilots 'twixt the dangerous shores
Unbind my sons, reverse the doom of death,
Uncouple here, and let us make a bay,
Uncover, dogs, and lap.        [The dishes are uncovered and
Under their sweet shade, Aaron, let us sit,
Undone by goodness! Strange, unusual blood,
Unfit to hear moral philosophy.
Unfurnish'd of her well-beseeming troop?
Unless some fit or frenzy do possess her;
Unless the gods delight in tragedies?
Unless the nightly owl or fatal raven.
Unless thou swear to me my child shall live.
Unlike young men, whom Aristode thought
Unmannerly intruder as thou art!
Untent his person and share the air with us?
Until his very downfall in the sea.
Unto my father and my uncle Marcus.
Unto the body of a dismal yew,
Unworthy brother and unworthy sons!
Upbraid my falsehood when th' have said 'As false
Upon a friend of mine, who in hot blood
Upon a gath'red lily almost withered.
Upon a just survey take Titus' part,
Upon a lazy bed the livelong day
Upon her nuptial vow, her loyalty,
Upon her patient breast, making their way
Upon her wit doth earthly honour wait,
Upon our joint and several dignities.
Upon the Thracian tyrant in his tent
Upon the beached verge of the salt flood,
Upon the north side of this pleasant chase;
Upon the wasted building, suddenly
Upon their first lord's neck. But tell me true,
Upon whose leaves are drops of new-shed blood
Upright he held it, lords, that held it last.
Valour and pride excel themselves in Hector;
Vengeance is in my heart, death in my hand,
Victorious Titus, rue the tears I shed,
Villain, thou mightst have been an emperor;
Villains, for shame you could not beg for grace.
Voic'd so regardfully?
Wak'd by the lark, hath rous'd the ribald crows,
Walks, like contempt, alone. More of our fellows.
Want similes, truth tir'd with iteration-
Wanting a hand to give it that accord?
Wanting his manage; and they will almost
Warrants these words in princely courtesy.
Was I a child to fear I know not what.
Was born of woman.
Was fairer than his grandame, and as chaste
Was it well done of rash Virginius
Was there none else in Rome to make a stale
Washes it off, and sprinkles in your faces
We are too well acquainted with these answers;
We banish thee for ever.
We come to speak with him. Ulysses, enter you.
We come to speak with him; and you shall not sin
We dare not move the question of our place
We do not throw in unrespective sieve,
We fear to warrant in our native place!
We have, great Agamemnon, here in Troy
We left them all at home. But we are soldiers;
We may not think the justness of each act
We may, each wreathed in the other's arms,
We met by chance; you did not find me here.
We must give up to Diomedes' hand
We must with all our main of power stand fast;
We sent to thee, to give thy rages balm,
We shall be much unwelcome.
We shall hear music, wit, and oracle.
We turn not back the silks upon the merchant
We two, that with so many thousand sighs
We were not all unkind, nor all deserve
We will afflict the Emperor in his pride.
We will solicit heaven, and move the gods
We'll consecrate the steps that Ajax makes
We'll dress him up in voices; if he fail,
We'll none of him, but let him, like an engine
We'll not commend what we intend to sell.
Weeke weeke!
Weigh but the crime with this.
Weigh you the worth and honour of a king,
Welcome indeed! By Venus' hand I swear
Welcome to Troy! now, by Anchises' life,
Welcome, Aemilius. What's the news from Rome?
Welcome, Sir Diomed! Here is the lady
Welcome, dread Fury, to my woeful house.
Welcome, ye warlike Goths; welcome, Lucius;
Well are you fitted, had you but a Moor.
Well could I leave our sport to sleep awhile.
Well may we fight for her whom we know well
Well shalt thou know her by thine own proportion,
Well, bury him, and bury me the next.
Well, let my deeds be witness of my worth.
Well, the gods are above; time must friend or end. Well, Troilus,
Were I alone to pass the difficulties,
Were a sufficient briber for his life.
Were all the wealth I have shut up in thee,
Were gracious in the eyes of royal Rome,
Were gracious in those princely eyes of thine,
Were he not proud, we all should wear with him;
Were it not glory that we more affected
Were not erected by their hands from whom
Were piety in thine, it is in these.
Were they that murd'red our Emperor's brother;
Were thy commixtion Greek and Troyan so
Wert thou not beggar. Willing misery
What Cressid is, what Pandar, and what we?
What God will have discovered for revenge.
What Roman lord it was durst do the deed.
What Troy means fairly shall be spoke aloud.
What an alteration of honour
What business, lord, so early?
What dost thou strike at, Marcus, with thy knife?
What dost thou wrap and fumble in thy arms?
What folly 'tis to hazard life for ill!
What fool hath added water to the sea,
What friendship may I do thee?
What grief hath set these jaundies o'er your cheeks?
What have I brought you to do?
What he requests of us. Good Diomed,
What heart receives from hence a conquering part,
What honey is expected? Degree being vizarded,
What is amiss, plague and infection mend!
What is the remedy?
What is your name?
What merit's in that reason which denies
What music is this?
What nearer debt in all humanity
What news with thee, Aemilius?
What news, Aeneas, from the field to-day?
What plagues and what portents, what mutiny,
What propugnation is in one man's valour
What raging of the sea, shaking of earth,
What says Andronicus to this device?
What shall we do? Let us that have our tongues
What should I don this robe and trouble you?
What signifies my deadly-standing eye,
What things again most dear in the esteem
What thou deniest to men; let prisons swallow 'em,
What time I threw the people's suffrages
What too curious dreg espies my sweet lady in the fountain of our
What treason were it to the ransack'd queen,
What viler thing upon the earth than friends,
What violent hands can she lay on her life?
What we are sorry for ourselves in thee.
What will whole months of tears thy father's eyes?
What would she find? Lavinia, shall I read?
What would you say, if I should let you speak?
What! to you,
What's this but libelling against the Senate,
What, all in motion? Henceforth be no feast
What, are you gone again? You must be watch'd ere you be made
What, billing again? Here's 'In witness whereof the parties
What, hast not thou full often struck a doe,
What, have you met with her?
What, is Lavinia then become so loose,
What, man! more water glideth by the mill
What, what, ye sanguine, shallow-hearted boys!
Whate'er I forge to feed his brain-sick humours,
When Goths were Goths and Tamora was queen-
When Hector's grandsire suck'd. He is old now;
When Helen is a maid again, and his.
When Helen is defended; nor none so noble
When I did name her brothers, then fresh tears
When I do tell thee there my hopes lie drown'd,
When I do weep, they humbly at my feet
When I have walked like a private man-
When as the one is wounded with the bait,
When crouching marrow, in the bearer strong,
When everything does make a gleeful boast?
When fame shall in our island sound her trump,
When fitness calls them on, and know, by measure
When gouty keepers of thee cannot stand.
When he by night lay bath'd in maiden blood.
When he is here, even at thy solemn feast,
When heaven doth weep, doth not the earth o'erflow?
When it should move ye to attend me most,
When man was wish'd to love his enemies!
When man's worst sin is he does too much good!
When rank Thersites opes his mastic jaws,
When right with right wars who shall be most right!
When sects and factions were newly born.
When shall we see again?
When subtle Greeks surpris'd King Priam's Troy.
When that the general is not like the hive,
When that the wat'ry palate tastes indeed
When the day serves, before black-corner'd night,
When they do hug him in their melting bosoms.
When they go from Achilles. Shall the proud lord
When they were living, warm'd themselves on thine!
When thy first griefs were but a mere conceit,
When thy poor heart beats with outrageous beating,
When time is old and hath forgot itself,
When waterdrops have worn the stones of Troy,
When we are so unsecret to ourselves?
When we have soil'd them; nor the remainder viands
When we may profit meet and come too late.
When we will tempt the frailty of our powers,
When with a happy storm they were surpris'd,
When with his solemn tongue he did discourse
When with your blood you daily paint her thus.
When, for his hand, he had his two sons' heads;
Where Helen is the subject. Then, I say,
Where I espied the panther fast asleep.
Where I may wallow in the lily beds
Where bloody murder or detested rape
Where feed'st thou a days, Apemantus?
Where is my wit? I know not what I speak.
Where it may see itself. This is not strange at all.
Where life hath no more interest but to breathe!
Where like a sweet melodious bird it sung
Where never man's eye may behold my body;
Where one but goes abreast. Keep then the path,
Where th' are extended; who, like an arch, reverb'rate
Where the dead corpse of Bassianus lay;
Where we decreed to bury Bassianus.
Whereat a villain's not a welcome guest.
Wherein I did not some notorious ill;
Wherein I had no stroke of mischief in it?
Wherein he puts alms for oblivion,
Whereof ingrateful man, with liquorish draughts
Whereof their mother daintily hath fed,
Whereof thy proud child, arrogant man, is puff'd,
Whereof we have record, trial did draw
Whereon Hyperion's quick'ning fire doth shine-
Wherever we shall meet, for Timon's sake,
Whether by device or no, the heavens can tell.
Which I am proud to bear.
Which I beseech you call a virtuous sin,
Which I have seen thee careful to observe,
Which I have sumptuously re-edified;
Which Rome reputes to be a heinous sin,
Which dreads not yet their lives' destruction.
Which entertain'd, limbs are his instruments,
Which for Antenor we deliver you;
Which hath an operation more divine
Which hath our several honours all engag'd
Which his own will shall have desire to drink.
Which is it, girl, of these?- Open them, boy.-
Which is that god in office, guiding men?
Which is the high and mighty Agamemnon?
Which is the ladder of all high designs,
Which made me down to throw my books, and fly-
Which nature loathes- take thou the destin'd tenth,
Which never hopes more heaven than rests in thee-
Which now the public body, which doth seldom
Which overshades the mouth of that same pit
Which signifies what hate they bear their Emperor
Which that sweet tongue hath made,
Which when they fall, as being slippery standers,
Which you say live to come in my behalf.
Which, cunningly effected, will beget
Which, from the tongue of roaring Typhon dropp'd,
Which, in the bluster of thy wrath, must fall
Which, like a bourn, a pale, a shore, confines
Which, like a taper in some monument,
Which, slanderer, he imitation calls-
While I stand by and weep to hear him speak.
While pride is fasting in his wantonness!
While some men leave to do!
While they have told their money and let out
While you have throats to answer. For myself,
Whiles I go tell my lord the Emperor
Whiles hounds and horns and sweet melodious birds
Whiles others fish with craft for great opinion,
Whiles others play the idiots in her eyes!
Whiles that Lavinia 'tween her stumps doth hold
Whilst I have gold, I'll be his steward still.          Exit
Whilst emulation in the army crept.
Whilst some with cunning gild their copper crowns,
Who 'twas that cut thy tongue and ravish'd thee.
Who broils in loud applause, and make him fall
Who can bring noblest minds to basest ends!
Who cannot condemn rashness in cold blood?
Who drown'd their enmity in my true tears,
Who found this letter? Tamora, was it you?
Who had the world as my confectionary;
Who hath abandoned her holy groves
Who in this dull and long-continued truce
Who in your thoughts deserves fair Helen best,
Who leads towards Rome a band of warlike Goths,
Who marks the waxing tide grow wave by wave,
Who marvels, then, when Helenus beholds
Who once a day with his embossed froth
Who seeks for better of thee, sauce his palate
Who then dares to be half so kind again?
Who though they cannot answer my distress,
Who threats in course of this revenge to do
Who were the motives that you first went out;
Who would be so mock'd with glory, or to live
Who would not wish to be from wealth exempt,
Who's here? Speak, ho! No answer? What is this?
Who's that at door? Good uncle, go and see.
Who, as Ulysses says, opinion crowns
Who, in his circumstance, expressly proves
Who, like a boar too savage, doth root up
Who, stuck and spangled with your flatteries,
Who, when he knows thou art the Empress' babe,
Who, when my heart, all mad with misery,
Whom I would imitate. Consumption catch thee!
Whom Troy hath still denied; but this Antenor,
Whom worthily you would have now succeed,
Whom you pretend to honour and adore,
Whom you yourselves shall set out for reproof,
Whom, though in general part we were oppos'd,
Whose blush doth thaw the consecrated snow
Whose circling shadows kings have sought to sleep in,
Whose dimpled smiles from fools exhaust their mercy;
Whose fall the mark of his ambition is.                 Exit
Whose fortunes Rome's best citizens applaud!
Whose friend in justice thou hast ever been,
Whose fury not dissembled speaks his griefs.
Whose glorious deeds but in these fields of late
Whose grossness little characters sum up;
Whose height commands as subject all the vale,
Whose high exploits and honourable deeds
Whose life were ill bestow'd or death unfam'd
Whose loss hath pierc'd him deep and scarr'd his heart;
Whose mouth is covered with rude-growing briers,
Whose naked natures live in all the spite
Whose name was once our terror, now our comfort,
Whose present courage may beat down our foes,
Whose price hath launch'd above a thousand ships,
Whose procreation, residence, and birth,
Whose proof nor yells of mothers, maids, nor babes,
Whose smoke like incense doth perfume the sky.
Whose souls are not corrupted as 'tis thought.
Whose star-like nobleness gave life and influence
Whose thankless natures- O abhorred spirits!-
Whose weak untimber'd sides but even now
Whose wisdom hath her fortune conquered;
Whose womb unmeasurable and infinite breast
Why are you sequest'red from all your train,
Why do fond men expose themselves to battle,
Why dost not speak? What, deaf? Not a word?
Why doth your Highness look so pale and wan?
Why have I blabb'd? Who shall be true to us,
Why keep we her? The Grecians keep our aunt.
Why lifts she up her arms in sequence thus?
Why should I war without the walls of Troy
Why should you want? Behold, the earth hath roots;
Why such unplausive eyes are bent, why turn'd on him?
Why suffer'st thou thy sons, unburied yet,
Why we ascribe it to him. Yet all his virtues,
Why, Marcus, no man should be mad but I.
Why, foolish Lucius, dost thou not perceive
Why, hark ye, hark ye! and are you such fools
Why, let the war receive't in valiant gore;
Why, lords, and think you not how dangerous
Why, then we do our main opinion crush
Why, this hath not a finger's dignity:
Why, thy verse swells with stuff so fine and smooth
Will blow these sands like Sibyl's leaves abroad,
Will have it so. On, lord; we'll follow you.
Will hold thee dearly for thy mother's sake.'
Will in his brinish bowels swallow him.
Will knit and break religions, bless th' accurs'd,
Will lug your priests and servants from your sides,
Will not permit mine eyes once to behold
Will o'er some high-vic'd city hang his poison
Will put thy shirt on warm? Will these moist trees,
Will rouse the proudest panther in the chase,
Will send thee hither both thy sons alive,
Will strike amazement to their drowsy spirits.
Will use you nobly and your followers.
Will we acquaint with all what we intend;
Will with a trumpet 'twixt our tents and Troy,
Will ye bestow them friendly on Andronicus?
Will, hand in hand, all headlong hurl ourselves,
Willing you to demand your hostages,
Wilt thou draw near the nature of the gods?
Wip'd off in honourable keeping her.
With all his threat'ning band of Typhon's brood,
With all licentious measure, making your wills
With all my force, pursuit, and policy.
With all my heart I'll send the Emperor my hand.
With all th' abhorred births below crisp heaven
With an imperial voice-many are infect.
With any size of words.
With burdens of the dead- some that were hang'd,
With burial amongst their ancestors.
With distinct breath and consign'd kisses to them,
With entertaining great Hyperion.
With every joint a wound, and that to-morrow!
With favour never clasp'd, but bred a dog.
With fear and horrid flight.
With folded arms. This poor right hand of mine
With golden promises, that, were his heart
With his disease of all-shunn'd poverty,
With his face backward. In humane gentleness,
With his own hand did slay his youngest son,
With honour and with fortune is return'd
With horn and hound we'll give your Grace bonjour.
With horns, as was Actaeon's; and the hounds
With it beat out his brains. Piety and fear,
With letters of entreaty, which imported
With man's blood paint the ground, gules, gules.
With miry slime left on them by a flood?
With my more noble meaning, not a man
With one of Priam's daughters.
With opportunity of sharp revenge
With secrets.
With senators on the bench. This is it
With sounding 'Troilus.' I will not go from Troy.
With spans and inches so diminutive
With such a costly loss of wealth and friends.
With such a hell of pain and world of charge;
With the first glance that ever-pardon me.
With the rude brevity and discharge of one.
With the whole quality wherefore; I fear
With their fin'st palate; and trust to me, Ulysses,
With these our late-deceased Emperor's sons:
With these your white enchanting fingers touch'd,
With this cramm'd reason. Reason and respect
With this, my weapon drawn, I rush'd upon him,
With those of nobler bulk!
With those that have offended. Like a shepherd
With thy most operant poison. What is here?
With truant vows to her own lips he loves,
With truth and plainness I do wear mine bare.
With twenty popish tricks and ceremonies
With wanton Paris sleeps-and that's the quarrel.
With wax I brought away, whose soft impression
With wings more momentary-swift than thought.
With words more sweet, and yet more dangerous,
With words, fair looks, and liberality?
Withal, bring word if Hector will to-morrow
Within this mile break forth a hundred springs;
Without a heart to dare or sword to draw
Without controlment, justice, or revenge?
Without observance or respect of any,
Without repugnancy? If there be
Without some image of th' affected merit.
Without the help of any hand at all.
Witness all sorrow that I know thee well
Witness the process of your speech, wherein
Witness the sorrow that their sister makes.
Witness the tiring day and heavy night;
Witness these trenches made by grief and care;
Witness this wretched stump, witness these crimson lines;
Woe to her chance, and damn'd her loathed choice!
Words, vows, gifts, tears, and love's full sacrifice,
Worse than the worst, content.
Would I perform, if I might have my will.
Would I propose to achieve her whom I love.
Would I were dead, so you did live again!
Would cast the gorge at this embalms and spices
Would he were a Troyan!
Would make such fearful and confused cries
Would seem hyperboles. At this fusty stuff
Would serve your turns.
Wound it with sighing, girl, kill it with groans;
Wounds, friends, and what else dear that is consum'd
Wrinkles Apollo's, and makes stale the morning.
Write thou, good niece, and here display at last
Writes me that man-how dearly ever parted,
Writing destruction on the enemy's castle?
Writing their own reproach; to whose soft seizure
Wrong right, base noble, old young, coward valiant.
Ye white-lim'd walls! ye alehouse painted signs!
Yea, let them say, to stick the heart of falsehood,
Yea, like fair fruit in an unwholesome dish,
Yea, overshines ourself.
Yea, what he shall receive of us in duty
Yesterday took; Troy holds him very dear.
Yet an arch-villain keeps him company.
Yet do thy cheeks look red as Titan's face
Yet every mother breeds not sons alike:
Yet gives he not till judgment guide his bounty,
Yet go we under our opinion still
Yet god Achilles still cries 'Excellent!
Yet have I heard- O, could I find it now!-
Yet hold I off. Women are angels, wooing:
Yet in some sort they are better than the Tribunes,
Yet in this trial much opinion dwells;
Yet our old love had a particular force,
Yet should both ear and heart obey my tongue.
Yet there's as little justice as at land.
Yet wrung with wrongs more than our backs can bear;
Yet, I think, we are not brought so low
Yet, after all comparisons of truth,
Yet, dread Priam,
Yet, for I know thou art religious
Yield at entreats, and then let me alone:
Yield him, who all thy human sons doth hate,
Yield to his humour, smooth and speak him fair,
You are a young huntsman, Marcus; let alone;
You are but newly planted in your throne;
You are deceiv'd; for what I mean to do
You are my guest, Lavinia, and your friends.
You are so empty of them. Should not our father
You bring me to do, and then you flout me too.
You do yourselves but wrong to stir me up;
You fools of fortune, trencher friends, time's flies,
You fur your gloves with reason. Here are your reasons:
You great benefactors, sprinkle our society with thankfulness.
You have receiv'd your griefs; nor are they such
You have the honey still, but these the gall;
You heavy people, circle me about,
You kill'd her husband; and for that vile fault
You knot of mouth-friends! Smoke and lukewarm water
You know a sword employ'd is perilous,
You know an enemy intends you harm;
You know my mind. I'll fight no more 'gainst Troy.
You know your mother means to feast with me,
You may be armed and appointed well.
You men will never tarry.
You must eat men. Yet thanks I must you con
You must perforce accomplish as you may.
You only speak from your distracted soul;
You perpetual-sober gods! I do proclaim
You shall ask pardon of his Majesty.
You shall be mistress, and command him wholly.
You should have fear'd false times when you did feast:
You should not have the eminence of him,
You smile and mock me, as if I meant naughtily.
You take much pains to mend.
You that are honest, by being what you are,
You that survive and you that sleep in fame.
You told how Diomed, a whole week by days,
You valiant offspring of great Priamus.
You were as good to shoot against the wind.
You will catch cold, and curse me.
You, like a lecher, out of whorish loins
Young lords, beware; an should the Empress know
Your aprons mountant; you are not oathable,
Your breath with full consent benied his sails;
Your letter is with Jupiter by this.
Your lordships, that, whenever you have need,
Your mother's hand shall right your mother's wrong.
Your noble Emperor and his lovely bride,
Your potent and infectious fevers heap
Your reeking villainy. Live loath'd and long,
Your words have took such pains as if they labour'd
Yourself shall feast with us before you go,
[Aside to SATURNINUS]  My lord, be rul'd by me,
[Aside]  And pray the Roman gods confound you both!
[Aside]  Now, what a thing it is to be an ass!
[Aside]  Their heads I mean. O, how this villainy
[Looks at the gold] O thou sweet king-killer, and dear divorce
[Reads]  'Integer vitae, scelerisque purus,
[To AEMILIUS]  Go thou before to be our ambassador;
[To CHIRON]  Do thou entreat her show a woman's pity.
[To LAVINIA]  Thou map of woe, that thus dost talk in signs!
[To Lucius]  Speak, Rome's dear friend, as erst our ancestor,
[To NESTOR] And, thou most reverend, for thy stretch'd-out life,
[To the PAINTER] If, where thou art, two villians shall not be,
[To the PAINTER] You have work for me; there's payment; hence!
[To the POET] You are an alchemist; make gold of that.-
a city feast of it, to let the meat cool ere we can agree upon
a tutor, and discipline come not near thee! Let thy blood be thy
abides.
able, and yet reserve an ability that they never perform; vowing
above, his complexion is higher than his; he having colour
addle egg.
admirable youth! he never saw three and twenty. Go thy way,
affectionately to you-
afterwards.
again, for the man must not be hang'd till the next week.
against May.                                    [Sound a retreat]
all the serpentine craft of thy caduceus, if ye take not that
already, that seest not thy loss in transformation!
an he knock out either of your brains: 'a were as good crack a
and a bed; which bed, because it shall not speak of your
and all the rest are his sons.' 'Jupiter!' quoth she 'which of
and flourish with the highest. Therefore 'tis not amiss we tender
and gone ere you came to Ilium? Helen was not up, was she?
and hot blood begets hot thoughts, and hot thoughts beget hot
and hot deeds? Why, they are vipers. Is love a generation of
and ignorance, be thine in great revenue! Heaven bless thee from
and one of them is white.'
and thou art too cunning. At whose request do these men play?
anon.
answer.
answering. Speaking is for beggars: he wears his tongue in's
are legs for necessity, not for flexure.
are men- Gentlemen, our dinner will not recompense this long
are to me nothing, so in nothing bless them, and to nothing are
arms. I will put on his presence. Let Patroclus make his demands
art bought and sold among those of any wit like a barbarian
art. Look you, who comes here?
as Helen is on Sunday. But what care I? I care not an she were a
as I found it, and there an end.               Exit. Sound alarum
as is thyself.
ass. If thou wert the ass, thy dulness would torment thee; and
at me.
at the other door, BASSIANUS and LAVINIA, with others
at the table, let a dozen of them be- as they are. The rest of
attributes?
backward, we'll put you i' th' fills.-Why do you not speak to
be a mock for his truth; and what truth can speak truest not
be at hand, sir; see you do it bravely.
be that were not subject to a beast? And what beast art thou
bear, slow as the elephant-a man into whom nature hath so crowded
become a forest of beasts.
behind her father. Let her to the Greeks; and so I'll tell her
beloved more than the man that gives it. Let no assembly of
better man than Troilus.
blackamoor; 'tis all one to me.
bone-ache! for that, methinks, is the curse depending on those
born, his addition shall be humble. Few words to fair faith:
borrow of men, men would forsake the gods. Make the meat be
brain than I have in mine elbows; an assinico may tutor thee. You
brain to set down her reckoning, bites his lip with a politic
brave man?
bring you together, let all pitiful goers- between be call'd to
brokers between Pandars. Say 'Amen.'
brother Troilus-
brought in] Come, bring in all together.
brought you a letter and a couple of pigeons here.
bugbear take him!
business, but he would not hear my excuse. I am sorry, when he
but in the deed devours the deed in the praise.
by; but mark Troilus above the rest.
capable creature.
certainly-
chang'd for Antenor; thou must to thy father, and be gone from
chiefest of them too. If I cannot ward what I would not have hit,
chin.
chin. Indeed, she has a marvell's white hand, I must needs
city?
come far behind him; let them take heed of Troilus, I can tell
comes Paris, yonder comes Paris.
comes to fight.
common lag of people, what is amiss in them, you gods, make
complexion. I had as lief Helen's golden tongue had commended
confess- not brown neither-
confess.
conjur'd me beyond them, and I must needs appear.
conjure and raise devils, but I'll see some issue of my spiteful
conquest of thy fury. Wert thou bear, thou wouldst be kill'd by
constant men be Troiluses, all false women Cressids, and all
courtly and fashionable; performance is a kind of will or
crown it. No perfection in reversion shall have a praise in
crows and daws! I had rather be such a man as Troilus than
cures the worse.
dark, you'd close sooner. So, so; rub on, and kiss the mistress
deeds, and hot deeds is love.
defend my beauty; and you, to defend all these; and at all these
did but try us this other day.
difficulty imposed. This is the monstruosity in love, lady, that
digestion, why hast thou not served thyself in to my table so
direction till thy death. Then if she that lays thee out says
door? How now? What's the matter?
drawing their massy irons and cutting the web. After this, the
emulous factions and bleed to death upon. Now the dry serpigo on
end.                                          [Exit guarded]
enough, and the other higher, is too flaming praise for a good
evasions have ears thus long. I have bobb'd his brain more than
execrations. Then there's Achilles, a rare engineer! If Troy be
extremity of both ends. When thou wast in thy gilt and thy
eye to boot.
eyes. Did her eyes run o'er too?
eyes? Do you know what a man is? Is not birth, beauty, good
face.
faction. But it was a strong composure a fool could disunite!
fairer. He that is proud eats up himself. Pride is his own glass,
faith.
falcon as the tercel, for all the ducks i' th' river. Go to, go
feasting.
fellow! Go thy way, Hector! There's a brave man, niece. O brave
fine forehead.
fire in a flint, which will not show without knocking. The man's
fish, languageless, a monster. A plague of opinion! A man may
flowers of Troy, I can tell you. But mark Troilus; you shall see
follow youth and opulency.
fool to serve such a fool; and this Patroclus is a fool positive.
fool; and, as aforesaid, Patroclus is a fool.
for his act, and but in the plainer and simpler kind of people
forget that thou art Jove, the king of gods, and, Mercury, lose
forsook him; he's much out of health and keeps his chamber.
four hairs on his chin-
fragment, some slender ort of his remainder. The mere want of
fury? Shall the elephant Ajax carry it thus? He beats me, and I
fusty nut with no kernel.
give him me. Be true to my lord; if he flinch, chide me for it.
give, lest your deities be despised. Lend to each man enough,
glimpse of, nor any man an attaint but he carries some stain of
go to- there were no more comparison between the women. But, for
goddess, he should take his choice. O admirable man! Paris? Paris
going with my pigeons to the Tribunal Plebs, to take up a matter
gold and the falling-from of his friends drove him into this
gold for thee.
gold of him. He likewise enrich'd poor straggling soldiers with
grace?
great quantity. 'Tis said he gave unto his steward a mighty sum.
hack'd than Hector's; and how he looks, and how he goes! O
hacks are on his helmet! Look you yonder, do you see? Look you
hairs,' quoth he 'and one white. That white hair is my father,
harshly o' th' trumpet's sound; we shall to't presently.
has me.
hath the joints of every thing; but everything so out of joint
have it so. How chance my brother Troilus went not?
having.
he has beat my bones. I will buy nine sparrows for a penny, and
he there; that he; look you there.
he will supply us easily; if he covetously reserve it, how
he'll break't himself in vainglory. He knows not me. I said 'Good
he's a man good enough; he's one o' th' soundest judgments in
head, you would eat chickens i' th' shell.
heart,' as the goodly saying is,
her and ill thought on of you; gone between and between, but
her eyes ran o'er.
her?-Come, draw this curtain and let's see your picture.
here and see them as they pass toward Ilium? Good niece, do,
here is good broken music.
him better than any man in all Phrygia.
him today, I can tell them that. And there's Troilus will not
him, at the first approach you must kneel; then kiss his foot;
him.
his own trumpet, his own chronicle; and whatever praises itself
his pia mater is not worth the ninth part of a sparrow. This
honestly in us, and is very likely to load our purposes with what
hour, I should derive much from't; for take't of my soul, my lord
humours that his valour is crush'd into folly, his folly sauced
hurt. Why, this will do Helen's heart good now, ha! Would I could
if she were fray'd with a sprite. I'll fetch her. It is the
if you see him?
in his head-I'll tell you what I say of him.
in truth, la. Nay, I care not for such words; no, no. -And, my
interchangeably.' Come in, come in; I'll go get a fire.
into handsomeness.
into the compass'd window-and you know he has not past three or
is boundless, and the act a slave to limit.
is dirt to him; and, I warrant, Helen, to change, would give an
is now; swear the oaths now to her that you have sworn to me.-
is sick.
it opens the eyes of expectation. Performance is ever the duller
it will not in circumvention deliver a fly from a spider without
it's all one. By God's lid, it does one's heart good. Yonder
it.
it; he is melancholy without cause and merry against the hair; he
kept Hector fasting and waking.
know belov'd?
know not what else to do, I'll see thee again.
know of him, but yet go fetch him hither; go.
laugh'd that it pass'd.
leans wondrously to discontent. His comfortable temper has
legs.
leopard; wert thou a leopard, thou wert german to the lion, and
liberality, and such like, the spice and salt that season a man?
lie.
lift as much as his brother Hector.
light upon thee! I will fear to catch it, and give way. When I
little little less-than-little wit from them that they have!
live in fire, cat rocks, tame tigers; thinking it harder for our
look, or any woman else.
lord!
lord, Achilles, Ajax-who wears his wit in his belly and his guts
lord, he desires you that, if the King call for him at supper,
love?
loved thyself better now. What man didst thou ever know unthrift
madman owes 'em.                                      Exeunt
magnanimous and most illustrious six-or-seven-times-honour'd
makes it.
man born in April.
man is beaten voluntary. Ajax was here the voluntary, and you as
man than I am?
man, niece. Hem! Brave Troilus, the prince of chivalry!
man.
many meals? Come, what's Agamemnon?
matter; thyself upon thyself! The common curse of mankind, folly
may live to have need of such a verse. We see it, we see it. How
me, sweet uncle, what's the matter?
medlar for thee; eat it.
melancholy upon your head!
melancholy, if you will favour the man; but, by my head, 'tis
melancholy.
mends in her own hands.
might water an ass at it. I had rather be a tick in a sheep than
mightst have hit upon it here. The commonwealth of Athens is
miserable but a man may be true.              Exeunt THIEVES
mistress to devise imposition enough than for us to undergo any
more i' th' matter.
more than the perfection of ten, and discharging less than the
morrow, Ajax'; and he replies 'Thanks, Agamemnon.' What think you
morrow, Alexander.-How do you, cousin? When were you at Ilium?
most bravely. I'll tell you them all by their names as they pass
must be a personating of himself; a satire against the softness
my hat. Did you see my jewel?
my life.
my part, she is my kinswoman; I would not, as they term it,
my wiles; upon my secrecy, to defend mine honesty; my mask, to
niece; look you how his sword is bloodied, and his helm more
no less noble, much more gentle, and altogether more tractable.
none; unless the fiddler Apollo get his sinews to make catlings
not taken till these two undermine it, the walls will stand till
now, lambs!
o' thy jade's tricks!
of Troy. I would fain have arm'd to-day, but my Nell would not
of brawl betwixt my uncle and one of the Emperal's men.
of hares, are they not monsters?
of his mistress; your diet shall be in all places alike. Make not
of his several friends.
of prosperity, with a discovery of the infinite flatteries that
of the oven, and the baking; nay, you must stay the cooling too,
of this man that takes me for the general? He's grown a very land
on.
or you may chance to burn your lips.
oration; and let him deliver the pigeons to the Emperor from you.
other day that Troilus, for a brown favour, for so 'tis, I must
our loves to him in this suppos'd distress of his; it will show
out of the wheat must needs tarry the grinding.
oxen, and make you plough up the wars.
particular additions: he is as valiant as a lion, churlish as the
particulars therein to a total.
past hiding, and then it's past watching
patient.
peace.
perform, confound thee, for thou art a man!
performance.
perfume, they mock'd thee for too much curiosity; in thy rags
persuading me to it.
porridge after meat! I could live and die in the eyes of Troilus.
pour in, pour in; his ambition is dry.
power?
praise her, but I would somebody had heard her talk yesterday, as
prayer without book. Thou canst strike, canst thou? A red murrain
present. We will not name desert before his birth; and, being
prettiest villain; she fetches her breath as short as a new-ta'en
pretty encounters, press it to death. Away!
pride and wrath would confound thee, and make thine own self the
pride. But why, why? Let him show us a cause. A word, my lord.
proclamation, and he rails upon me.
promise him an excellent piece.
promise, the gods plague thee, for thou art man! If thou dost
prophetically proud of an heroical cudgelling that he raves in
prove false one to another, since I have taken such pains to
puts me her white hand to his cloven chin-
queen.
rail at him. O worthy satisfaction! Would it were otherwise: that
rail.
regard, as who should say 'There were wit in this head, an
remain a beast with the beasts?
revenge enough. Who can speak broader than he that has no house
sailor breaks a biscuit.
say 'Amen.' What ho! my Lord Achilles!
saying nothing.
scratching of thee; I would make thee the loathsomest scab in
scurvy valiant ass! Thou art here but to thrash Troyans, and thou
see Troilus now! You shall see Troilus anon.
seethes.
sent to borrow of me, that my provision was out.
shall's get it?
shape, discourse, manhood, learning, gentleness, virtue, youth,
she be fair, 'tis the better for her; an she be not, she has the
should be so bold to press to heaven in my young days. Why, I am
shouldst hazard thy life for thy dinner. Wert thou the unicorn,
shrouded any but lazars. Amen. Where's Achilles?
sinews, or else there be liars. Hector shall have a great catch
slave. If thou use to beat me, I will begin at thy heel and tell
slept to-night? Would he not, a naughty man, let it sleep? A
slow as another.
small thanks for my labour.
so full of gold?
song now.
sparrow.                                                     Exit
stand; ruminaies like an hostess that hath no arithmetic but her
stay; feast your ears with the music awhile, if they will fare so
still thou liv'dst but as a breakfast to the wolf. If thou wert
struck him down, the disdain and shame whereof hath ever since
such a valiant ignorance.                                    Exit
suitable for destruction. For these my present friends, as they
supplication?
sweet niece Cressida.
sweet. Nay, you shall fight your hearts out ere I part you. The
sworn. For my own part, I came in late. What should he do here?
tame, must you? Come your ways, come your ways; an you draw
tasted, allow us as we prove; our head shall go bare till merit
tent-
tent; and to procure safe conduct for his person of the
tenth part of one. They that have the voice of lions and the act
testament which argues a great sickness in his judgment that
than blind reason stumbling without fear. To fear the worst oft
that he is a gouty Briareus, many hands and no use, or purblind
that one need not lend to another; for were your god-heads to
that war for a placket. I have said my prayers; and devil Envy
that was beloved after his means?
the deed of saying is quite out of use. To promise is most
the faction of fools.                                        Exit
the first place. Sit, sit. The gods require our thanks:
the heart-blood of beauty, love's invisible soul-
the horse; wert thou a horse, thou wouldst be seiz'd by the
the lamb, the fox would eat thee; if thou wert the fox, the lion
the next time I see her. For my part, I'll meddle nor make no
the pie, for then the man's date is out.
the spots of thy kindred were jurors on thy life. All thy safety
the subject, and war and lechery confound all!               Exit
the will is infinite, and the execution confin'd; that the desire
the wolf, thy greediness would afflict thee, and oft thou
the world's end after my name-call them all Pandars; let all
their money. These debts may well be call'd desperate ones, for a
them that too.
them.
then deliver up your pigeons; and then look for your reward. I'll
then? Were not that a botchy core?
there is presented no monster.
there. There's no jesting; there's laying on; take't off who
these hairs is Paris my husband?' 'The forked one,' quoth he,
they are burs, I can tell you; they'll stick where they are
they be long ere they are wooed, they are constant being won;
they fall of themselves. O thou great thunder-darter of Olympus,
they travail for, if it be just and true report that goes of his
they welcome.
things go.
things like men? Eat, Timon, and abhor them.
think thy horse will sooner con an oration than thou learn a
this is brave now. Who said he came hurt home to-day? He's not
this.
thou art a fair corse, I'll be sworn and sworn upon't she never
thou art as full of envy at his greatness as Cerberus is at
thou know'st none, but art despis'd for the contrary. There's a
thou?
thrown.
thus, my lord: my dear lord and most esteemed friend, your
thy flatterers?
to me, you shall see the pageant of Ajax.
to put his head in? Such may rail against great buildings.
to you, fair queen! Fair thoughts be your fair pillow.
to your tents. I will keep where there is wit stirring, and leave
to-day. You'll remember your brother's excuse?
to.
toward him.
trade.
truer than Troilus.
twenty be without a score of villains. If there sit twelve women
under an impress.
undone for ever; for if Hector break not his neck i' th' combat,
unfortunate a beggar.
upon Antenor!
us; not to have us thrive in our mystery.
vengeance on the whole camp! or, rather, the Neapolitan
vipers? Sweet lord, who's a-field today?
vouchsafe me a word?
wards I lie at, at a thousand watches.
ware; you'll be so true to him to be false to him. Do not you
wear it on both sides, like leather jerkin.
welcome. I had rather be a beggar's dog than Apemantus.
well! I would my heart were in her body! No, Hector is not a
were remotion, and thy defence absence. What beast couldst thou
what pride is.
what thou art by inches, thou thing of no bowels, thou!
what's the matter?
when Hector has knock'd out his brains I know not; but, I am sure,
when th' other's come to't. Hector shall not have his wit this
when your lordship this other day sent to me, I was so
where Troilus is. Hark! do you not hear the people cry 'Troilus'?
where he answers again
which many my near occasions did urge me to put off; but he hath
which short-arm'd ignorance itself knows is so abundant scarce,
whole again; you shall piece it out with a piece of your
will be blown up by th' root?                                Exit
will go one way or other. Howsoever, he shall pay for me ere he
will make a complimental assault upon him, for my business
will, as they say. There be hacks.
with discretion. There is no man hath a virtue that he hath not a
witness. Here I hold your hand; here my cousin's. If ever you
witty now. She does so blush, and fetches her wind so short, as
work? Wilt thou whip thine own faults in other men? Do so, I have
would suspect thee, when, peradventure, thou wert accus'd by the
would they had broke's neck.
wouldst not have slipp'd out of my contemplation; but it is no
wouldst thou do with the world, Apemantus, if it lay in thy
year.
you o' th' deeds too, if she call your activity in question.
you take him to be, he is Ajax.
you will make his excuse.
you.
you?
your foes, O gods, the senators of Athens, together with the
your grandsires had nails on their toes-yoke you like draught
your lordship.
MUTIUS, the sons of ANDRONICUS, with their swords bloody
[Knock]
with a veil over her face; also YOUNG LUCIUS, and others
A CAPTAIN
A CLOWN
A MESSENGER
A NURSE, and a black CHILD
A ROMAN. You sad Andronici, have done with woes;
AARON, a Moor, beloved by Tamora
AARON.  [Aside]  Ay, and as good as Saturninus may.
AARON.  [Aside]  Clubs, clubs! These lovers will not keep the
AARON.  [Aside]  If that be call'd deceit, I will be honest,
AARON.  [Aside]  Now will I fetch the King to find them here,
AARON.  [Aside]  Pray to the devils; the gods have given us over.
AARON.  [Coming forward]  Why, how now, lords!
AARON. Ah, why should wrath be mute and fury dumb?
AARON. An if it please thee! Why, assure thee, Lucius,
AARON. Away, I say!
AARON. Ay, just- a verse in Horace. Right, you have it.
AARON. Ay, like a black dog, as the saying is.
AARON. Ay, some mad message from his mad grandfather.
AARON. Ay, that I had not done a thousand more.
AARON. Come on, my lords, the better foot before;
AARON. First know thou, I begot him on the Empress.
AARON. For shame, be friends, and join for that you jar.
AARON. Had he not reason, Lord Demetrius?
AARON. He that had wit would think that I had none,
AARON. Here lacks but your mother for to say amen.
AARON. I go, Andronicus; and for thy hand
AARON. If there be devils, would I were a devil,
AARON. Indeed, I was their tutor to instruct them.
AARON. It shall not die.
AARON. Lucius, save the child,
AARON. Madam, though Venus govern your desires,
AARON. My gracious lord, here is the bag of gold.
AARON. My mistress is my mistress: this my self,
AARON. Nay, come, agree whose hand shall go along,
AARON. No more, great Empress: Bassianus comes.
AARON. Now climbeth Tamora Olympus' top,
AARON. Now to the Goths, as swift as swallow flies,
AARON. O Lord, sir, 'tis a deed of policy.
AARON. Some devil whisper curses in my ear,
AARON. Sooner this sword shall plough thy bowels up.
AARON. Swear that he shall, and then I will begin.
AARON. That which thou canst not undo.
AARON. The Emperess, the midwife, and yourself.
AARON. Then sit we down and let us all consult.
AARON. Titus Andronicus, my lord the Emperor
AARON. To achieve her- how?
AARON. To whom?
AARON. Touch not the boy, he is of royal blood.
AARON. Tut, Lucius, this was but a deed of charity
AARON. Villain, I have done thy mother.
AARON. Well, God give her good rest! What hath he sent her?
AARON. Well, more or less, or ne'er a whit at all,
AARON. What if I do not? as indeed I do not;
AARON. What, must it, nurse? Then let no man but I
AARON. Why, are ye mad, or know ye not in Rome
AARON. Why, she was wash'd, and cut, and trimm'd, and 'twas
AARON. Why, so, brave lords! When we join in league
AARON. Why, then she is the devil's dam;
AARON. Why, then, it seems some certain snatch or so
AARON. Why, there's the privilege your beauty bears:
AARON. Why, what a caterwauling dost thou keep!
AARON. Would you had hit it too!
AARON. Zounds, ye whore! Is black so base a hue?
ACHILLES
ACHILLES. 'Tis but early days.
ACHILLES. 'Tis done like Hector; but securely done,
ACHILLES. A maiden battle then? O, I perceive you!
ACHILLES. Ay; what's the matter?
ACHILLES. Come, Patroclus, I'll speak with nobody. Come in with me,
ACHILLES. Come, thou shalt bear a letter to him straight.
ACHILLES. Derive this; come.
ACHILLES. Go call Thersites hither, sweet Patroclus.
ACHILLES. Good day, good day.
ACHILLES. Good morrow, Ajax.
ACHILLES. Good morrow.
ACHILLES. Ha! known!
ACHILLES. He is a privileg'd man. Proceed, Thersites.
ACHILLES. How can that be?
ACHILLES. How so?
ACHILLES. I do believe it; for they pass'd by me
ACHILLES. I know not; 'tis put to lott'ry. Otherwise. He knew his
ACHILLES. I know that, fool.
ACHILLES. I see my reputation is at stake;
ACHILLES. I'll take that winter from your lips, fair lady.
ACHILLES. If not Achilles, nothing.
ACHILLES. Marry, this, sir, is proclaim'd through all our host,
ACHILLES. My mind is troubled, like a fountain stirr'd;
ACHILLES. Nay, I must hold you.
ACHILLES. Nay, good Ajax.
ACHILLES. No.
ACHILLES. O, tell, tell,
ACHILLES. Of this my privacy
ACHILLES. Peace, fool.
ACHILLES. Shall Ajax fight with Hector?
ACHILLES. So I do. What's the matter?
ACHILLES. There's for you, Patroclus.
ACHILLES. This is not strange, Ulysses.
ACHILLES. Thou must be my ambassador to him, Thersites.
ACHILLES. To him, Patroclus. Tell him I humbly desire the valiant
ACHILLES. Well! why, so I do.
ACHILLES. What are you reading?
ACHILLES. What comes the general to speak with me?
ACHILLES. What mean these fellows? Know they not Achilles?
ACHILLES. What's the quarrel?
ACHILLES. What, am I poor of late?
ACHILLES. What, does the cuckold scorn me?
ACHILLES. What, what?
ACHILLES. What, with me too, Thersites?
ACHILLES. What?
ACHILLES. What?
ACHILLES. Where, where? O, where? Art thou come? Why, my cheese, my
ACHILLES. Who's there?
ACHILLES. Why, but he is not in this tune, is he?
ACHILLES. Why, how now, Ajax! Wherefore do you thus?
ACHILLES. Will you set your wit to a fool's?
ACHILLES. Your last service was suff'rance; 'twas not voluntary. No
AEMILIUS, a noble Roman
AEMILIUS. Arm, my lords! Rome never had more cause.
AEMILIUS. Come, come, thou reverend man of Rome,
AEMILIUS. Lord Lucius, and you Princes of the Goths,
AEMILIUS. Your bidding shall I do effectually.            Exit
AENEAS
AENEAS. And thou shalt hunt a lion, that will fly
AENEAS. Ay, Greek, that is my name.
AENEAS. Ay;
AENEAS. By Priam, and the general state of Troy.
AENEAS. Come, he is here, my lord; do not deny him.
AENEAS. Courtiers as free, as debonair, unarm'd,
AENEAS. Fair leave and large security. How may
AENEAS. Good morrow, all.                         Exit with servant
AENEAS. Good morrow, lord, good morrow.
AENEAS. Good, good, my lord, the secrets of neighbour Pandar
AENEAS. Hail, all the state of Greece! What shall be done
AENEAS. Hark what good sport is out of town to-day!
AENEAS. He cares not; he'll obey conditions.
AENEAS. Health to you, valiant sir,
AENEAS. How have we spent this morning!
AENEAS. How now, Prince Troilus! Wherefore not afield?
AENEAS. I was sent for to the King; but why, I know not.
AENEAS. If not Achilles, sir,
AENEAS. In all swift haste.
AENEAS. Is not Prince Troilus here?
AENEAS. Is the Prince there in person?
AENEAS. Is this great Agamemnon's tent, I pray you?
AENEAS. May one that is a herald and a prince
AENEAS. My lord, I scarce have leisure to salute you,
AENEAS. Nor I from Troy come not to whisper with him;
AENEAS. Now heavens forfend such scarcity of youth!
AENEAS. Princes, enough, so please you.
AENEAS. Sir, pardon; 'tis for Agamemnon's ears.
AENEAS. That I assure you:
AENEAS. That Paris is returned home, and hurt.
AENEAS. Therefore Achilles. But whate'er, know this:
AENEAS. Troilus, by Menelaus.
AENEAS. Trumpet, blow loud,
AENEAS. We know each other well.
AENEAS. Who!-nay, then. Come, come, you'll do him wrong ere you are
AENEAS. Yea, with a bridegroom's fresh alacrity
AENEAS. [Within] My lord, is the lady ready?
AENEAS. [Within] Nay, good my lord!
AGAMEMNON, the Greek general
AGAMEMNON. Even this.
AGAMEMNON. Fair Lord Aeneas, let me touch your hand;
AGAMEMNON. Go we to council. Let Achilles sleep.
AGAMEMNON. He hears nought privately that comes from Troy.
AGAMEMNON. Hear you, Patroclus.
AGAMEMNON. Here art thou in appointment fresh and fair,
AGAMEMNON. Here is Sir Diomed. Go, gentle knight,
AGAMEMNON. His blows are well dispos'd. There, Ajax!
AGAMEMNON. How?
AGAMEMNON. In second voice we'll not be satisfied;
AGAMEMNON. Is not yond Diomed, with Calchas' daughter?
AGAMEMNON. Is this the lady Cressid?
AGAMEMNON. Let Ajax go to him.
AGAMEMNON. Let Diomedes bear him,
AGAMEMNON. Let it be known to him that we are here.
AGAMEMNON. Most dearly welcome to the Greeks, sweet lady.
AGAMEMNON. No more than what he thinks he is.
AGAMEMNON. No question.
AGAMEMNON. No, noble Ajax; you are as strong, as valiant, as wise,
AGAMEMNON. O, no, you shall not go.
AGAMEMNON. Princes,
AGAMEMNON. Sir, you of Troy, call you yourself Aeneas?
AGAMEMNON. Speak frankly as the wind;
AGAMEMNON. Speak, Prince of Ithaca; and be't of less expect
AGAMEMNON. The better.
AGAMEMNON. The nature of the sickness found, Ulysses,
AGAMEMNON. They are in action.
AGAMEMNON. This Troyan scorns us, or the men of Troy
AGAMEMNON. This shall be told our lovers, Lord Aeneas.
AGAMEMNON. We'll execute your purpose, and put on
AGAMEMNON. What Troyan is that same that looks so heavy?
AGAMEMNON. What says Achilles? Would he aught with us?
AGAMEMNON. What trumpet? Look, Menelaus.
AGAMEMNON. What would you fore our tent?
AGAMEMNON. What wouldst thou of us, Troyan? Make demand.
AGAMEMNON. What's his excuse?
AGAMEMNON. What's your affair, I pray you?
AGAMEMNON. Where is Achilles?
AGAMEMNON. Which way would Hector have it?
AGAMEMNON. Why will he not, upon our fair request,
AGAMEMNON. With surety stronger than Achilles' an
AGAMEMNON. Yonder comes the troop.
AGAMEMNON. Your mind is the clearer, Ajax, and your virtues the
AGAMEMNON. [Aside] He will be the physician that should be the
AJAX
AJAX. 'A should not bear it so, 'a should eat's words first.
AJAX. A paltry, insolent fellow!
AJAX. A whoreson dog, that shall palter with us thus!
AJAX. An 'a be proud with me I'll pheeze his pride.
AJAX. An all men were a my mind-
AJAX. Ay, and good next day too.                               Exit
AJAX. Can he not be sociable?
AJAX. Cobloaf!
AJAX. Do not, porpentine, do not; my fingers itch.
AJAX. Dog!
AJAX. Farewell. Who shall answer him?
AJAX. Ha?
AJAX. How now, Patroclus?
AJAX. I am not warm yet; let us fight again.
AJAX. I bade the vile owl go learn me the tenour of the
AJAX. I do hate a proud man as I do hate the engend'ring of toads.
AJAX. I say, the proclamation.
AJAX. I shall cut out your tongue.
AJAX. I will knead him, I'll make him supple.
AJAX. I'll let his humours blood.
AJAX. If I go to him, with my armed fist I'll pash him o'er the
AJAX. Is he so much? Do you not think he thinks himself a better
AJAX. Mistress Thersites!
AJAX. O thou damned cur! I shall-
AJAX. O, meaning you! I will go learn more of it.            Exeunt
AJAX. Shall I call you father?
AJAX. Speak, then, thou whinid'st leaven, speak. I will beat thee
AJAX. The proclamation!
AJAX. Therefore I beat thee.
AJAX. Thersites!
AJAX. Thersites!
AJAX. Thou bitch-wolf's son, canst thou not hear? Feel, then.
AJAX. Thou stool for a witch!
AJAX. Thou, trumpet, there's my purse.
AJAX. Toadstool, learn me the proclamation.
AJAX. Well, go to, go to.
AJAX. What is he more than another?
AJAX. Why should a man be proud? How doth pride grow? I know not
AJAX. Will you subscribe his thought and say he is?
AJAX. Yes, lion-sick, sick of proud heart. You may call it
AJAX. You cur!                                        [Strikes him]
AJAX. You dog!
AJAX. You whoreson cur!                               [Strikes him]
ALARBUS
ALCIBIADES. Ay, Timon, and have cause.
ALCIBIADES. Banish me!
ALCIBIADES. Call me to your remembrances.
ALCIBIADES. Call'st thou that harm?
ALCIBIADES. Descend, and keep your words.
ALCIBIADES. Hard fate! He might have died in war.
ALCIBIADES. Hast thou gold yet? I'll take the gold thou givest me,
ALCIBIADES. Honour, health, and compassion, to the Senate!
ALCIBIADES. How came the noble Timon to this change?
ALCIBIADES. I am an humble suitor to your virtues;
ALCIBIADES. I am thy friend, and pity thee, dear Timon.
ALCIBIADES. I cannot think but your age has forgot me;
ALCIBIADES. I have heard in some sort of thy miseries.
ALCIBIADES. I know thee well;
ALCIBIADES. I never did thee harm.
ALCIBIADES. I see them now; then was a blessed time.
ALCIBIADES. In vain! His service done
ALCIBIADES. Must it be so? It must not be. My lords,
ALCIBIADES. My lord-
ALCIBIADES. My lords, then, under favour, pardon me
ALCIBIADES. Noble Timon,
ALCIBIADES. Now the gods keep you old enough that you may live
ALCIBIADES. Pardon him, sweet Timandra, for his wits
ALCIBIADES. Sound to this coward and lascivious town
ALCIBIADES. Strike up the drum towards Athens. Farewell, Timon;
ALCIBIADES. Then there's my glove;
ALCIBIADES. We but offend him. Strike.
ALCIBIADES. What art thou there? Speak.
ALCIBIADES. What is it, Timon?
ALCIBIADES. What is thy name? Is man so hateful to thee
ALCIBIADES. When I have laid proud Athens on a heap-
ALCIBIADES. Why me, Timon?
ALCIBIADES. Why, I say, my lords, has done fair service,
ALCIBIADES. Why, fare thee well;
ALEXANDER, servant to Cressida
ALEXANDER. As may be in the world, lady.
ALEXANDER. Madam, your uncle Pandarus.
ALEXANDER. Queen Hecuba and Helen.
ALEXANDER. The noise goes, this: there is among the Greeks
ALEXANDER. They say he is a very man per se,
ALEXANDER. They say he yesterday cop'd Hector in the battle and
ALEXANDER. This man, lady, hath robb'd many beasts of their
ALEXANDER. Up to the eastern tower,
ALL THE GOTHS. And as he saith, so say we all with him.
ALL.  [Kneeling]  No man shed tears for noble Mutius;
ALL. Lucius, all hail, Rome's gracious governor!
ALL. Lucius, all hail, Rome's royal Emperor!
ALL. The Troyans' trumpet.
ANDROMACHE, wife to Hector
ANTENOR
APEMANTUS. A plague on thee! thou art too bad to curse.
APEMANTUS. An th' hadst hated medlars sooner, thou shouldst have
APEMANTUS. Art thou proud yet?
APEMANTUS. Ay, Timon.
APEMANTUS. Ay.
APEMANTUS. Ay.
APEMANTUS. Beast!
APEMANTUS. Dost hate a medlar?
APEMANTUS. Give it the beasts, to be rid of the men.
APEMANTUS. Here is no use for gold.
APEMANTUS. Here! I will mend thy feast.
APEMANTUS. I flatter not, but say thou art a caitiff.
APEMANTUS. I love thee better now than e'er I did.
APEMANTUS. I was directed hither. Men report
APEMANTUS. I would my tongue could rot them off!
APEMANTUS. I, that I was
APEMANTUS. If thou couldst please me with speaking to me, thou
APEMANTUS. If thou didst put this sour-cold habit on
APEMANTUS. Live, and love thy misery!
APEMANTUS. Myself.
APEMANTUS. So I shall mend mine own by th' lack of thine.
APEMANTUS. The middle of humanity thou never knewest, but the
APEMANTUS. There is no leprosy but what thou speak'st.
APEMANTUS. This is in thee a nature but infected,
APEMANTUS. Thou art the cap of all the fools alive.
APEMANTUS. Thou hast cast away thyself, being like thyself;
APEMANTUS. To vex thee.
APEMANTUS. Toad!
APEMANTUS. What things in the world canst thou nearest compare to
APEMANTUS. What wouldst thou have to Athens?
APEMANTUS. Where liest a nights, Timon?
APEMANTUS. Where my stomach. finds meat; or rather, where I eat it.
APEMANTUS. Where wouldst thou send it?
APEMANTUS. Why?
APEMANTUS. Would 'twere so!
APEMANTUS. Would thou wouldst burst!
APEMANTUS. Yonder comes a poet and a painter. The plague of company
BANDITTI. Save thee, Timon!
BANDITTI. Soldiers, not thieves.
BANDITTI. We are not thieves, but men that much do want.
BANDITTI. Where?
BASSIANUS, brother to Saturninus
BASSIANUS. And you of yours, my lord! I say no more,
BASSIANUS. Andronicus, I do not flatter thee,
BASSIANUS. Ay, noble Titus, and resolv'd withal
BASSIANUS. Believe me, Queen, your swarth Cimmerian
BASSIANUS. By him that justly may
BASSIANUS. Lavinia, how say you?
BASSIANUS. Lord Titus, by your leave, this maid is mine.
BASSIANUS. Marcus Andronicus, so I do affy
BASSIANUS. My lord, what I have done, as best I may,
BASSIANUS. Rape, call you it, my lord, to seize my own,
BASSIANUS. Romans, friends, followers, favourers of my right,
BASSIANUS. The King my brother shall have notice of this.
BASSIANUS. Tribunes, and me, a poor competitor.
BASSIANUS. Who have we here? Rome's royal Emperess,
BOTH VARRO'S SERVANTS. And ours, my lord.
BOTH. 'Tis most nobly spoken.
BOTH. Beseech your honour
BOTH. Do we, my lord?
BOTH. Doubt it not, worthy lord.
BOTH. Most thankfully, my lord.
BOTH. Name them, my lord; let's know them.
BOTH. What we can do, we'll do, to do you service.
BOY.  [Aside]  That you are both decipher'd, that's the news,
BOY. And, uncle, so will I, an if I live.
BOY. At your own house; there he unarms him.
BOY. Ay, when my father was in Rome she did.
BOY. Ay, with my dagger in their bosoms, grandsire.
BOY. Good grandsire, leave these bitter deep laments;
BOY. Grandsire, 'tis Ovid's Metamorphoses;
BOY. Help, grandsire, help! my aunt Lavinia
BOY. I say, my lord, that if I were a man
BOY. My lord, I know not, I, nor can I guess,
BOY. My lords, with all the humbleness I may,
BOY. No, sir; he stays for you to conduct him thither.
BOY. O grandsire, grandsire! ev'n with all my heart
BOY. Sir, my lord would instantly speak with you.
CAIUS
CALCHAS, a Trojan priest, taking part with the Greeks
CALCHAS. Now, Princes, for the service I have done,
CALCHAS. You have a Troyan prisoner call'd Antenor,
CAPTAIN. Romans, make way. The good Andronicus,
CASSANDRA, daughter to Priam, a prophetess
CASSANDRA. Cry, Troyans, cry. Lend me ten thousand eyes,
CASSANDRA. Virgins and boys, mid-age and wrinkled eld,
CASSANDRA. [Within] Cry, Troyans, cry.
CASSANDRA. [Within] Cry, Troyans.
CHIRON
CHIRON. A charitable wish and full of love.
CHIRON. Aaron, I see thou wilt not trust the air
CHIRON. Aaron, a thousand deaths
CHIRON. An 'twere my cause, I should go hang myself.
CHIRON. An if she do, I would I were an eunuch.
CHIRON. And that would she for twenty thousand more.
CHIRON. And this for me, struck home to show my strength.
CHIRON. Ay, so the turn were served.
CHIRON. Belike, for joy the Emperor hath a son.
CHIRON. Demetrius, here's the son of Lucius;
CHIRON. Demetrius, thou dost over-ween in all;
CHIRON. Faith, not me.
CHIRON. For that I am prepar'd and full resolv'd,
CHIRON. Go home, call for sweet water, wash thy hands.
CHIRON. I blush to think upon this ignomy.
CHIRON. I care not, I, knew she and all the world:
CHIRON. I warrant you, madam, we will make that sure.
CHIRON. It shall not live.
CHIRON. Meanwhile, sir, with the little skill I have,
CHIRON. Nay, then I'll stop your mouth. Bring thou her husband.
CHIRON. O, 'tis a verse in Horace, I know it well;
CHIRON. Rome will despise her for this foul escape.
CHIRON. Show me a villain that hath done a rape,
CHIRON. Tell us, old man, how shall we be employ'd?
CHIRON. Thou hast undone our mother.
CHIRON. Thy counsel, lad, smells of no cowardice.
CHIRON. Villains, forbear! we are the Empress' sons.
CHIRON. Was never Scythia half so barbarous!
CHIRON. What, wouldst thou have me prove myself a bastard?
CHIRON. Write down thy mind, bewray thy meaning so,
CLOWN. 'Tis he.- God and Saint Stephen give you godden. I have
CLOWN. Alas, sir, I know not Jupiter; I never drank with him in all
CLOWN. Ay, of my pigeons, sir; nothing else.
CLOWN. Ay, sir.
CLOWN. From heaven! Alas, sir, I never came there. God forbid I
CLOWN. God be with you, sir; I will.
CLOWN. Hang'd! by'r lady, then I have brought up a neck to a fair
CLOWN. Ho, the gibbet-maker? He says that he hath taken them down
CLOWN. How much money must I have?
CLOWN. I warrant you, sir; let me alone.
CLOWN. Nay, truly, sir, I could never say grace in all my life.
CLOWN. Yes, forsooth, an your mistriship be Emperial.
CRESSIDA, daughter to Calchas
CRESSIDA. 'Tis just to each of them: he is himself.
CRESSIDA. 'Twould not become him: his own's better.
CRESSIDA. A pestilence on him! Now will he be mocking.
CRESSIDA. A woeful Cressid 'mongst the merry Greeks!
CRESSIDA. Adieu, uncle.
CRESSIDA. Alas, poor chin! Many a wart is richer.
CRESSIDA. Amen.
CRESSIDA. An't had been a green hair I should have laugh'd too.
CRESSIDA. And I'll spring up in his tears, an 'twere a nettle
CRESSIDA. And is it true that I must go from Troy?
CRESSIDA. And whither go they?
CRESSIDA. And you this glove. When shall I see you?
CRESSIDA. Are you aweary of me?
CRESSIDA. At what was all this laughing?
CRESSIDA. At your pleasure.
CRESSIDA. Ay, a minc'd man; and then to be bak'd with no date in
CRESSIDA. Ay, if I ever saw him before and knew him.
CRESSIDA. Be those with swords?
CRESSIDA. Blind fear, that seeing reason leads, finds safer footing
CRESSIDA. Boldness comes to me now and brings me heart.
CRESSIDA. But how should this man, that makes me smile, make Hector
CRESSIDA. But there was a more temperate fire under the pot of her
CRESSIDA. By the same token, you are a bawd.
CRESSIDA. Can Helenus fight, uncle?
CRESSIDA. Come, come, beshrew your heart! You'll ne'er be good,
CRESSIDA. Come, you are deceiv'd, I think of no such thing.
CRESSIDA. Did not I tell you? Would he were knock'd i' th' head!
CRESSIDA. Do you think I will?
CRESSIDA. Excuse me.
CRESSIDA. Go hang yourself, you naughty mocking uncle.
CRESSIDA. Good morrow, then.
CRESSIDA. Good morrow, uncle Pandarus.
CRESSIDA. Good uncle, I beseech you, on my knees I beseech you,
CRESSIDA. Good; and what of him?
CRESSIDA. Hard to seem won; but I was won, my lord,
CRESSIDA. Have the gods envy?
CRESSIDA. He is not Hector.
CRESSIDA. He shall not need it if he have his own.
CRESSIDA. Hector was gone; but Helen was not up.
CRESSIDA. Hector's a gallant man.
CRESSIDA. Here comes more.
CRESSIDA. How now! What's the matter? Who was here?
CRESSIDA. I am your debtor; claim it when 'tis due.
CRESSIDA. I must then to the Grecians?
CRESSIDA. I true! how now! What wicked deem is this?
CRESSIDA. I will not, uncle. I have forgot my father;
CRESSIDA. I'll make my match to live,
CRESSIDA. If he do, the rich shall have more.
CRESSIDA. If you love an addle egg as well as you love an idle
CRESSIDA. In kissing, do you render or receive?
CRESSIDA. In that I'll war with you.
CRESSIDA. Indeed a tapster's arithmetic may soon bring his
CRESSIDA. Is he so young a man and so old a lifter?
CRESSIDA. Is't possible?
CRESSIDA. Juno have mercy! How came it cloven?
CRESSIDA. Let me go and try.
CRESSIDA. More dregs than water, if my fears have eyes.
CRESSIDA. My lord, I do beseech you, pardon me;
CRESSIDA. My lord, will you be true?
CRESSIDA. Nay, I'll watch you for that; and that's one of the
CRESSIDA. Night hath been too brief.
CRESSIDA. No matter.
CRESSIDA. No, I'll be sworn.
CRESSIDA. No, Paris is not; for you know 'tis true
CRESSIDA. No, but brown.
CRESSIDA. Nor nothing monstrous neither?
CRESSIDA. O Jupiter! there's no comparison.
CRESSIDA. O Troilus! Troilus! [Embracing him]
CRESSIDA. O heavens! 'Be true' again!
CRESSIDA. O heavens! you love me not.
CRESSIDA. O the gods! What's the matter?
CRESSIDA. O yes, an 'twere a cloud in autumn!
CRESSIDA. O you immortal gods! I will not go.
CRESSIDA. O, a brave man!
CRESSIDA. O, he smiles valiantly!
CRESSIDA. O, you shall be expos'd, my lord, to dangers
CRESSIDA. Pardon me, pardon me.
CRESSIDA. Peace, for shame, peace!
CRESSIDA. Perchance, my lord, I show more craft than love;
CRESSIDA. Pray you, content you.
CRESSIDA. Prithee tarry.
CRESSIDA. Prophet may you be!
CRESSIDA. Sir, mine own company.
CRESSIDA. So I do.
CRESSIDA. So do all men, unless they are drunk, sick, or have no
CRESSIDA. So he is.
CRESSIDA. So he says here.
CRESSIDA. So let it now; for it has been a great while going by.
CRESSIDA. Speak not so loud.
CRESSIDA. Tear my bright hair, and scratch my praised cheeks,
CRESSIDA. That were we talking of, and of his anger.
CRESSIDA. Then Troilus should have too much. If she prais'd him
CRESSIDA. Then she's a merry Greek indeed.
CRESSIDA. Then you say as I say, for I am sure he is not Hector.
CRESSIDA. Then, sweet my lord, I'll call mine uncle down;
CRESSIDA. There is amongst the Greeks Achilles, a better man than
CRESSIDA. They say all lovers swear more performance than they are
CRESSIDA. This is her question.
CRESSIDA. This morning, uncle.
CRESSIDA. To bring, uncle.
CRESSIDA. To say the truth, true and not true.
CRESSIDA. Troilus will stand to the proof, if you'll prove it so.
CRESSIDA. Upon my back, to defend my belly; upon my wit, to defend
CRESSIDA. Well, uncle, what folly I commit, I dedicate to you.
CRESSIDA. Well, well.
CRESSIDA. What sneaking fellow comes yonder?
CRESSIDA. What was his answer?
CRESSIDA. What was his cause of anger?
CRESSIDA. What, and from Troilus too?
CRESSIDA. What, is he angry too?
CRESSIDA. Who comes here?
CRESSIDA. Who were those went by?
CRESSIDA. Who's that?
CRESSIDA. Who's that?
CRESSIDA. Why sigh you so profoundly? Where's my lord? Gone? Tell
CRESSIDA. Why tell you me of moderation?
CRESSIDA. Why, Paris hath colour enough.
CRESSIDA. Why, beg then.
CRESSIDA. Will he give you the nod?
CRESSIDA. Will you walk in, my lord?
CRESSIDA. Will you walk in, my lord?
CRESSIDA. Wish'd, my lord! The gods grant-O my lord!
CRESSIDA. With millstones.
CRESSIDA. Without the rack.
CRESSIDA. You are an odd man; give even or give none.
CRESSIDA. You may.
DEIPHOBUS
DEIPHOBUS. It is the Lord Aeneas.
DEIPHOBUS. Let us make ready straight.
DEMETRIUS
DEMETRIUS. Aaron, thou hast hit it.
DEMETRIUS. Advise thee, Aaron, what is to be done,
DEMETRIUS. And therein, hellish dog, thou hast undone her.
DEMETRIUS. Away! for thou hast stay'd us here too long.
DEMETRIUS. Ay, boy, grow ye so brave?              [They draw]
DEMETRIUS. But me more good to see so great a lord
DEMETRIUS. By this our mother is for ever sham'd.
DEMETRIUS. Chiron, thy years wants wit, thy wits wants edge
DEMETRIUS. Chiron, we hunt not, we, with horse nor hound,
DEMETRIUS. Come, let us go and pray to all the gods
DEMETRIUS. For this care of Tamora,
DEMETRIUS. Gramercy, lovely Lucius. What's the news?
DEMETRIUS. How many women saw this child of his?
DEMETRIUS. How now, dear sovereign, and our gracious mother!
DEMETRIUS. I would we had a thousand Roman dames
DEMETRIUS. I'll broach the tadpole on my rapier's point.
DEMETRIUS. If thou hadst hands to help thee knit the cord.
DEMETRIUS. Listen, fair madam: let it be your glory
DEMETRIUS. Madam, depart at pleasure; leave us here.
DEMETRIUS. Nor me, so I were one.
DEMETRIUS. Not I, till I have sheath'd
DEMETRIUS. Oppose not Scythia to ambitious Rome.
DEMETRIUS. See how with signs and tokens she can scrowl.
DEMETRIUS. She hath no tongue to call, nor hands to wash;
DEMETRIUS. Show me a murderer, I'll deal with him.
DEMETRIUS. Sit fas aut nefas, till I find the stream
DEMETRIUS. So, now go tell, an if thy tongue can speak,
DEMETRIUS. Soft! who comes here?
DEMETRIUS. Stay, madam, here is more belongs to her;
DEMETRIUS. Then why should he despair that knows to court it
DEMETRIUS. This is a witness that I am thy son.
DEMETRIUS. Villain, what hast thou done?
DEMETRIUS. What mean'st thou, Aaron? Wherefore didst thou this?
DEMETRIUS. What's here? A scroll, and written round about.
DEMETRIUS. Why do the Emperor's trumpets flourish thus?
DEMETRIUS. Why mak'st thou it so strange?
DEMETRIUS. Why, boy, although our mother, unadvis'd,
DEMETRIUS. Wilt thou betray thy noble mistress thus?
DEMETRIUS. Youngling, learn thou to make some meaner choice:
DIOMEDES
DIOMEDES. As Hector pleases.
DIOMEDES. Be rul'd by him, Lord Ajax.
DIOMEDES. Both alike:
DIOMEDES. Even she.
DIOMEDES. Fair Lady Cressid,
DIOMEDES. Lady, a word. I'll bring you to your father.
DIOMEDES. O, be not mov'd, Prince Troilus.
DIOMEDES. Or covetous of praise.
DIOMEDES. Or strange, or self-affected.
DIOMEDES. She's bitter to her country. Hear me, Paris:
DIOMEDES. That's my mind too. Good morrow, Lord Aeneas.
DIOMEDES. The one and other Diomed embraces.
DIOMEDES. This shall I undertake; and 'tis a burden
DIOMEDES. We sympathise. Jove let Aeneas live,
DIOMEDES. You must no more.
DIOMEDES. You must prepare to fight without Achilles.
DIOMEDES. [Aside] And how his silence drinks up this applause!
DIOMEDES.We do; and long to know each other worse.
FIRST AND SECOND LORDS. Alcibiades banish'd!
FIRST BANDIT. 'Tis in the malice of mankind that he thus advises
FIRST BANDIT. Is not this he?
FIRST BANDIT. Let us first see peace in Athens. There is no time so
FIRST BANDIT. We cannot live on grass, on berries, water,
FIRST BANDIT. Where should he have this gold? It is some poor
FIRST GOTH. Brave slip, sprung from the great Andronicus,
FIRST GOTH. What says our general?
FIRST LORD. A thousand pieces.
FIRST LORD. Ever at the best, hearing well of your lordship.
FIRST LORD. He's but a mad lord, and nought but humours sways him.
FIRST LORD. How do you? What's the news?
FIRST LORD. How now, my lords!
FIRST LORD. How? how?
FIRST LORD. I am sick of that grief too, as I understand how all
FIRST LORD. I hope it remains not unkindly with your lordship that
FIRST LORD. I should think so. He hath sent me an earnest inviting,
FIRST LORD. Let's make no stay.
FIRST LORD. Royal cheer, I warrant you.
FIRST LORD. The good time of day to you, sir.
FIRST LORD. Upon that were my thoughts tiring when we encount'red.
FIRST LORD. What of you?
FIRST SENATOR. All have not offended;
FIRST SENATOR. Bring us to his cave.
FIRST SENATOR. Do you dare our anger?
FIRST SENATOR. He dies.
FIRST SENATOR. Here come our brothers.
FIRST SENATOR. His discontents are unremovably
FIRST SENATOR. I like this well; he will return again.
FIRST SENATOR. If after two days' shine Athens contain thee,
FIRST SENATOR. It requires swift foot.                  Exeunt
FIRST SENATOR. My lord, you have my voice to't: the fault's bloody.
FIRST SENATOR. Noble and young,
FIRST SENATOR. Now, Captain?
FIRST SENATOR. O, forget
FIRST SENATOR. Set but thy foot
FIRST SENATOR. That's well spoke.
FIRST SENATOR. The senators of Athens greet thee, Timon.
FIRST SENATOR. Therefore so please thee to return with us,
FIRST SENATOR. Therefore, Timon-
FIRST SENATOR. These walls of ours
FIRST SENATOR. These words become your lips as they pass through
FIRST SENATOR. Thou hast painfully discover'd; are his files
FIRST SENATOR. We are for law: he dies. Urge it no more
FIRST SENATOR. We speak in vain.
FIRST SENATOR. What's that?
FIRST SENATOR. Worthy Timon-
FIRST SENATOR. You cannot make gross sins look clear:
FIRST SENATOR. You undergo too strict a paradox,
FIRST SERVANT. Hear you, Master Steward, where's our master?
FIRST SERVANT. Such a house broke!
FIRST VARRO'S SERVANT. How! What does his cashier'd worship mutter?
FIRST VARRO'S SERVANT. My lord-
FLAMINIUS. My lord-
FLAMINIUS. [Within] Servilius, help! My lord! my lord!
FLAVIUS. Alack, my fellows, what should I say to you?
FLAVIUS. All broken implements of a ruin'd house.
FLAVIUS. An honest poor servant of yours.
FLAVIUS. Good fellows all,
FLAVIUS. Have you forgot me, sir?
FLAVIUS. Here is his cave.
FLAVIUS. Here, my lord.
FLAVIUS. I beg of you to know me, good my lord,
FLAVIUS. If 'twill not serve, 'tis not so base as you,
FLAVIUS. It is vain that you would speak with Timon;
FLAVIUS. My dear lord-
FLAVIUS. No, my most worthy master, in whose breast
FLAVIUS. O my lord,
FLAVIUS. O you gods!
FLAVIUS. O, let me stay
FLAVIUS. Stay not, all's in vain.
FLAVIUS. The gods are witness,
FLAVIUS. Trouble him no further; thus you still shall find him.
FOURTH LORD. Here lies my gown.
FOURTH LORD. I have lost my gown.
FOURTH LORD. One day he gives us diamonds, next day stones.
GOTH. My lord, there is a messenger from Rome
GOTH. What, canst thou say all this and never blush?
HECTOR
HECTOR. Brother, she is not worth what she doth, cost
HECTOR. But value dwells not in particular will:
HECTOR. I am yours,
HECTOR. It is Cassandra.
HECTOR. Now, youthful Troilus, do not these high strains
HECTOR. Paris and Troilus, you have both said well;
HECTOR. Peace, sister, peace.
HECTOR. Though no man lesser fears the Greeks than I,
HECTOR. Why, then will I no more.
HELEN, wife to Menelaus
HELEN. 'Twill make us proud to be his servant, Paris;
HELEN. And to make a sweet lady sad is a sour offence.
HELEN. Ay, ay, prithee now. By my troth, sweet lord, thou hast a
HELEN. Commend me to your niece.
HELEN. Dear lord, you are full of fair words.
HELEN. Falling in, after falling out, may make them three.
HELEN. He hangs the lip at something. You know all, Lord Pandarus.
HELEN. He is full of harmony.
HELEN. In love, i' faith, to the very tip of the nose.
HELEN. Let thy song be love. This love will undo us all. O Cupid,
HELEN. My Lord Pandarus!
HELEN. My Lord Pandarus, honey-sweet lord-
HELEN. Nay, but, my lord-
HELEN. Nay, this shall not hedge us out. We'll hear you sing,
HELEN. O, sir-
HELEN. She shall have it, my lord, if it be not my Lord Paris.
HELEN. Why, this is kindly done.
HELEN. You must not know where he sups.
HELEN. You shall not bob us out of our melody. If you do, our
HELENUS
HELENUS. No marvel though you bite so sharp at reasons,
HORTENSIUS. And mine, my lord.
HORTENSIUS. Faith, I perceive our masters may throw their caps at
LAVINIA, daughter to Titus Andronicus
LAVINIA. 'Tis present death I beg; and one thing more,
LAVINIA. 'Tis true, the raven doth not hatch a lark.
LAVINIA. And, being intercepted in your sport,
LAVINIA. Ay, come, Semiramis- nay, barbarous Tamora,
LAVINIA. Ay, for these slips have made him noted long.
LAVINIA. I say no;
LAVINIA. In peace and honour live Lord Titus long;
LAVINIA. No grace? no womanhood? Ah, beastly creature,
LAVINIA. Not I, my lord, sith true nobility
LAVINIA. O Tamora! thou bearest a woman's face-
LAVINIA. O Tamora, be call'd a gentle queen,
LAVINIA. O, let me teach thee! For my father's sake,
LAVINIA. Sweet lords, entreat her hear me but a word.
LAVINIA. Under your patience, gentle Emperess,
LAVINIA. When did the tiger's young ones teach the dam?
LUCIUS
LUCIUS' SERVANT. Alas, my lord-
LUCIUS' SERVANT. Ay, but this answer will not serve.
LUCIUS' SERVANT. Five thousand crowns, my lord.
LUCIUS' SERVANT. Here's mine.
LUCIUS' SERVANT. Many do keep their chambers are not sick;
LUCIUS' SERVANT. Put in now, Titus.
LUCIUS. Aemilius, let the Emperor give his pledges
LUCIUS. Ah, my Lavinia, I will wipe thy cheeks.
LUCIUS. Ah, that this sight should make so deep a wound,
LUCIUS. And that he will and shall, if Lucius live.
LUCIUS. Approved warriors and my faithful friends,
LUCIUS. Art thou not sorry for these heinous deeds?
LUCIUS. Away with him, and make a fire straight;
LUCIUS. Away, inhuman dog, unhallowed slave!
LUCIUS. Ay me! this object kills me.
LUCIUS. Bring down the devil, for he must not die
LUCIUS. But let us give him burial, as becomes;
LUCIUS. By heaven, it shall not go!
LUCIUS. Can the son's eye behold his father bleed?
LUCIUS. Come hither, boy; come, come, come, and learn of us
LUCIUS. Dead, if you will; but not to be his wife,
LUCIUS. Dear father, soul and substance of us all-
LUCIUS. Even by my god I swear to thee I will.
LUCIUS. Farewell, Andronicus, my noble father,
LUCIUS. Give us the proudest prisoner of the Goths,
LUCIUS. Good uncle, take you in this barbarous Moor,
LUCIUS. I humbly thank him, and I thank you all.
LUCIUS. Let him come near.
LUCIUS. My gracious lord, no tribune hears you speak.
LUCIUS. My lord, you are unjust, and more than so:
LUCIUS. O barbarous beastly villains like thyself!
LUCIUS. O detestable villain! Call'st thou that trimming?
LUCIUS. O most insatiate and luxurious woman!
LUCIUS. O noble father, you lament in vain;
LUCIUS. O worthy Goth, this is the incarnate devil
LUCIUS. O, say thou for her, who hath done this deed?
LUCIUS. Proud Saturnine, interrupter of the good
LUCIUS. Say on; an if it please me which thou speak'st,
LUCIUS. See, lord and father, how we have perform'd
LUCIUS. Set him breast-deep in earth, and famish him;
LUCIUS. Sirs, stop his mouth, and let him speak no more.
LUCIUS. Some loving friends convey the Emperor hence,
LUCIUS. Speak, gentle sister, who hath martyr'd thee?
LUCIUS. Stay, father! for that noble hand of thine,
LUCIUS. Sweet father, cease your tears; for at your grief
LUCIUS. Sweet father, if I shall be thought thy son,
LUCIUS. Tell on thy mind; I say thy child shall live.
LUCIUS. Thanks, gentle Romans! May I govern so
LUCIUS. Then I'll go fetch an axe.
LUCIUS. Then, gracious auditory, be it known to you
LUCIUS. There lie thy bones, sweet Mutius, with thy friends,
LUCIUS. To rescue my two brothers from their death;
LUCIUS. Too like the sire for ever being good.
LUCIUS. Uncle Marcus, since 'tis my father's mind
LUCIUS. We do, and vow to heaven and to his Highness
LUCIUS. What boots it thee to can thyself a sun?
LUCIUS. Who should I swear by? Thou believest no god;
MARCUS ANDRONICUS, Tribune of the People, and brother to Titus
MARCUS. Alas, my lord, I have but kill'd a fly.
MARCUS. Alas, poor heart, that kiss is comfortless
MARCUS. Alas, poor man! grief has so wrought on him,
MARCUS. Alas, the tender boy, in passion mov'd,
MARCUS. And for our father's sake and mother's care,
MARCUS. And welcome, nephews, from successful wars,
MARCUS. At that that I have kill'd, my lord- a fly.
MARCUS. Ay, that's my boy! Thy father hath full oft
MARCUS. Brother, for in that name doth nature plead-
MARCUS. But I will use the axe.
MARCUS. But yet let reason govern thy lament.
MARCUS. Canst thou not guess wherefore she plies thee thus?
MARCUS. Fie, brother, fie! Teach her not thus to lay
MARCUS. For love of her that's gone,
MARCUS. Go, go into old Titus' sorrowful house,
MARCUS. How many thousand times hath these poor lips,
MARCUS. I have dogs, my lord,
MARCUS. I think she means that there were more than one
MARCUS. Kinsmen, his sorrows are past remedy.
MARCUS. Kinsmen, shoot all your shafts into the court;
MARCUS. Long live Lord Titus, my beloved brother,
MARCUS. Lucius, I will.           [LAVINIA turns over with her
MARCUS. My hand shall go.
MARCUS. My lord, I aim a mile beyond the moon;
MARCUS. My lord, this is impiety in you.
MARCUS. My lord- to step out of these dreary dumps-
MARCUS. No, noble Titus, but entreat of thee
MARCUS. Now farewell, flatt'ry; die, Andronicus.
MARCUS. Now is my turn to speak. Behold the child.
MARCUS. Now let hot Aetna cool in Sicily,
MARCUS. O Publius, is not this a heavy case,
MARCUS. O Titus, see, O, see what thou hast done!
MARCUS. O brother, speak with possibility,
MARCUS. O heavens, can you hear a good man groan
MARCUS. O, calm thee, gentle lord! although I know
MARCUS. O, that delightful engine of her thoughts
MARCUS. O, thus I found her straying in the park,
MARCUS. O, why should nature build so foul a den,
MARCUS. Pardon me, sir; it was a black ill-favour'd fly,
MARCUS. Patience, dear niece. Good Titus, dry thine eyes.
MARCUS. Perchance she weeps because they kill'd her husband;
MARCUS. Princes, that strive by factions and by friends
MARCUS. Renowned Titus, more than half my soul-
MARCUS. Rome's Emperor, and nephew, break the parle;
MARCUS. See, brother, see! Note how she quotes the leaves.
MARCUS. Sit down, sweet niece; brother, sit down by me.
MARCUS. Stand by me, Lucius; do not fear thine aunt.
MARCUS. Suffer thy brother Marcus to inter
MARCUS. Suum cuique is our Roman justice:
MARCUS. Tear for tear and loving kiss for kiss
MARCUS. That on mine honour here do I protest.
MARCUS. This was the sport, my lord: when Publius shot,
MARCUS. This was thy daughter.
MARCUS. This will I do, and soon return again.            Exit
MARCUS. Titus, prepare thy aged eyes to weep,
MARCUS. Titus, thou shalt obtain and ask the empery.
MARCUS. What means my niece Lavinia by these signs?
MARCUS. What, what! the lustful sons of Tamora
MARCUS. Which of your hands hath not defended Rome
MARCUS. Who is this?- my niece, that flies away so fast?
MARCUS. Why dost thou laugh? It fits not with this hour.
MARCUS. Why, sir, that is as fit as can be to serve for your
MARCUS. With voices and applause of every sort,
MARCUS. Yes, and will nobly him remunerate.
MARCUS. You sad-fac'd men, people and sons of Rome,
MARGARELON, a bastard son of Priam
MARTIUS
MARTIUS. And mine, I promise you; were it not for shame,
MARTIUS. He is not with himself; let us withdraw.
MARTIUS. Lord Bassianus lies beray'd in blood,
MARTIUS. Nor I no strength to climb without thy help.
MARTIUS. O brother, with the dismal'st object hurt
MARTIUS. The unhappy sons of old Andronicus,
MARTIUS. To prove thou hast a true divining heart,
MARTIUS. Upon his bloody finger he doth wear
MARTIUS. We know not where you left them all alive;
MARTIUS. Why dost not comfort me, and help me out
MENELAUS, his brother
MENELAUS. An odd man, lady? Every man is odd.
MENELAUS. From Troy.
MENELAUS. How do you? How do you?                              Exit
MENELAUS. I had good argument for kissing once.
MENELAUS. I'll give you boot; I'll give you three for one.
MENELAUS. I'll have my kiss, sir. Lady, by your leave.
MENELAUS. O, this is trim!
MENELAUS. You fillip me o' th' head.
MESSENGER. I have spoke the least.
MESSENGER. I met a courier, one mine ancient friend,
MESSENGER. Worthy Andronicus, ill art thou repaid
MUTIUS
MUTIUS. Brothers, help to convey her hence away,
MUTIUS. Help, Lucius, help!
MUTIUS. My lord, you pass not here.
NESTOR
NESTOR. A woman of quick sense.
NESTOR. All the better; their fraction is more our wish than their
NESTOR. And in the imitation of these twain-
NESTOR. And very courtly counsel: I'll begin.
NESTOR. Ay, my good son.
NESTOR. I see them not with my old eyes. What are they?
NESTOR. Let this be granted, and Achilles' horse
NESTOR. Most wisely hath Ulysses here discover'd
NESTOR. No Achilles with him.
NESTOR. Nothing, my lord.
NESTOR. Now, Ajax, hold thine own!
NESTOR. Now, Ulysses, I begin to relish thy advice;
NESTOR. Our general doth salute you with a kiss.
NESTOR. Our noble general, do not do so.
NESTOR. Tell him of Nestor, one that was a man
NESTOR. Then will Ajax lack matter, if he have lost his argument
NESTOR. True. The purpose is perspicuous even as substance
NESTOR. Well, and how?
NESTOR. What a vice were it in Ajax now-
NESTOR. What is't?
NESTOR. What moves Ajax thus to bay at him?
NESTOR. What says Ulysses?
NESTOR. Wherefore should you so?
NESTOR. Why, 'tis most meet. Who may you else oppose
NESTOR. With due observance of thy godlike seat,
NESTOR. Would you, my lord, aught with the general?
NESTOR. [Aside] An 'twould, you'd carry half.
NESTOR. [Aside] And yet he loves himself: is't not strange?
NESTOR. [Aside] He's not yet through warm. Force him with praises;
NESTOR. [Aside] How he describes himself!
NESTOR. [Aside] O, this is well! He rubs the vein of him.
NESTOR.Who, Thersites?
NURSE. A devil.
NURSE. A joyless, dismal, black, and sorrowful issue!
NURSE. Aaron, it must; the mother wills it so.
NURSE. Aaron, what shall I say unto the Empress?
NURSE. Cornelia the midwife and myself;
NURSE. Good morrow, lords.
NURSE. I mean she is brought a-bed.
NURSE. O gentle Aaron, we are all undone!
NURSE. O, that which I would hide from heaven's eye:
NURSE. The Emperor in his rage will doom her death.
PAINTER. As I took note of the place, it cannot be far where he
PAINTER. Certain. Alcibiades reports it; Phrynia and Timandra had
PAINTER. Good as the best. Promising is the very air o' th' time;
PAINTER. He and myself
PAINTER. I know not such, my lord.
PAINTER. Nothing at this time but my visitation; only I will
PAINTER. Nothing else. You shall see him a palm in Athens again,
PAINTER. Our late noble master!
PAINTER. So it is said, my noble lord; but therefore
PAINTER. So, so, my lord.
PAINTER. True;
PAINTER. We are hither come to offer you our service.
PANDARUS, uncle to Cressida
PANDARUS. Achilles? A drayman, a porter, a very camel!
PANDARUS. Ah, ah!
PANDARUS. Amen. Whereupon I will show you a chamber
PANDARUS. An her hair were not somewhat darker than Helen's- well,
PANDARUS. And Cassandra laugh'd.
PANDARUS. And Hector laugh'd.
PANDARUS. And she takes upon her to spy a white hair on his chin.
PANDARUS. Asses, fools, dolts! chaff and bran, chaff and bran!
PANDARUS. At whose pleasure, friend?
PANDARUS. Ay, a token from Troilus.
PANDARUS. Ay, ay, ay; 'tis too plain a case.
PANDARUS. Ay, good my lord. Why should you say Cressida?
PANDARUS. Ay, the bolting; but you must tarry the leavening.
PANDARUS. Ay, the grinding; but you must tarry the bolting.
PANDARUS. Ay, to the leavening; but here's yet in the word
PANDARUS. Ay, you may, you may.
PANDARUS. Be moderate, be moderate.
PANDARUS. Because she's kin to me, therefore she's not so fair as
PANDARUS. But there was such laughing! Queen Hecuba laugh'd that
PANDARUS. But to prove to you that Helen loves him: she came and
PANDARUS. Come, come, what need you blush? Shame's a baby.-Here she
PANDARUS. Come, come. I'll hear no more of this; I'll sing you a
PANDARUS. Command, I mean, friend.
PANDARUS. Condition I had gone barefoot to India.
PANDARUS. Do, do.
PANDARUS. Does he not?
PANDARUS. E'en so. Hector was stirring early.
PANDARUS. Fair be to you, my lord, and to all this fair company!
PANDARUS. Faith, I'll not meddle in it. Let her be as she is: if
PANDARUS. Faith, to say truth, brown and not brown.
PANDARUS. Farewell, sweet queen.
PANDARUS. Friend, know me better: I am the Lord Pandarus.
PANDARUS. Friend, we understand not one another: I am to courtly,
PANDARUS. Friend, you-pray you, a word. Do you not follow the young
PANDARUS. Go to, a bargain made; seal it, seal it; I'll be the
PANDARUS. Go to, sweet queen, go to-commends himself most
PANDARUS. Good boy, tell him I come.                       Exit Boy
PANDARUS. Good morrow, cousin Cressid. What do you talk of?- Good
PANDARUS. Grace! Not so, friend; honour and lordship are my titles.
PANDARUS. Ha, ha! Alas, poor wretch! a poor capocchia! hast not
PANDARUS. Hark! they are coming from the field. Shall we stand up
PANDARUS. Have you seen my cousin?
PANDARUS. He is elder.
PANDARUS. He! No, she'll none of him; they two are twain.
PANDARUS. Helenus! no. Yes, he'll fight indifferent well. I marvel
PANDARUS. Here! What should he do here?
PANDARUS. Here, here, here he comes. Ah, sweet ducks!
PANDARUS. Here, here, here's an excellent place; here we may see
PANDARUS. Himself! Alas, poor Troilus! I would he were!
PANDARUS. Himself! no, he's not himself. Would 'a were himself!
PANDARUS. How now! Where's thy master? At my cousin Cressida's?
PANDARUS. How now, how now! How go maidenheads?
PANDARUS. I cannot choose but laugh to think how she tickled his
PANDARUS. I do desire it.
PANDARUS. I do not care whether you do or no. She's a fool to stay
PANDARUS. I have business to my lord, dear queen. My lord, will you
PANDARUS. I have had my labour for my travail, ill thought on of
PANDARUS. I speak no more than truth.
PANDARUS. I swear to you I think Helen loves him better than Paris.
PANDARUS. I thank you for that; if my lord get a boy of you, you'll
PANDARUS. I will be with you, niece, by and by.
PANDARUS. I will, sweet queen.                Exit. Sound a retreat
PANDARUS. I'll be sworn 'tis true; he will weep you, and 'twere a
PANDARUS. In good troth, it begins so.                      [Sings]
PANDARUS. Is 'a not? It does a man's heart good. Look you what
PANDARUS. Is he here, say you? It's more than I know, I'll be
PANDARUS. Is this the generation of love: hot blood, hot thoughts,
PANDARUS. Is't possible? No sooner got but lost? The devil take
PANDARUS. It should seem, fellow, that thou hast not seen the Lady
PANDARUS. Know you the musicians?
PANDARUS. Leave! An you take leave till to-morrow morning-
PANDARUS. Love! Ay, that it shall, i' faith.
PANDARUS. Mark him; note him. O brave Troilus! Look well upon him,
PANDARUS. Marry, at the white hair that Helen spied on Troilus'
PANDARUS. My niece is horribly in love with a thing you have, sweet
PANDARUS. Nay, I am sure she does. She came to him th' other day
PANDARUS. Nay, I'll give my word for her too: our kindred, though
PANDARUS. Nay, that shall not serve your turn; that shall it not,
PANDARUS. No, no, no such matter; you are wide. Come, your disposer
PANDARUS. No, nor Hector is not Troilus in some degrees.
PANDARUS. Nor his beauty.
PANDARUS. Nor his qualities.
PANDARUS. Not I, honey-sweet queen. I long to hear how they spend
PANDARUS. Not I.
PANDARUS. O, here he comes. How now, how now!
PANDARUS. Pray thee, get thee in. Would thou hadst ne'er been born!
PANDARUS. Pray you, speak no more to me: I will leave all
PANDARUS. Pretty, i' faith.
PANDARUS. Quoth she 'Here's but two and fifty hairs on your chin,
PANDARUS. Rude, in sooth; in good sooth, very rude.
PANDARUS. Say one of your watches.
PANDARUS. She prais'd his complexion above Paris.
PANDARUS. She's making her ready, she'll come straight; you must be
PANDARUS. So he has.
PANDARUS. Sweet queen, sweet queen; that's a sweet queen, i' faith.
PANDARUS. Swords! anything, he cares not; an the devil come to him,
PANDARUS. Th' other's not come to't; you shall tell me another tale
PANDARUS. That's Aeneas. Is not that a brave man? He's one of the
PANDARUS. That's Antenor. He has a shrewd wit, I can tell you; and
PANDARUS. That's Hector, that, that, look you, that; there's a
PANDARUS. That's Helenus. I marvel where Troilus is. That's
PANDARUS. That's true; make no question of that. 'Two and fifty
PANDARUS. They laugh'd not so much at the hair as at his pretty
PANDARUS. Thou must be gone, wench, thou must be gone; thou art
PANDARUS. Thou must.
PANDARUS. To do what? to do what? Let her say what.
PANDARUS. Troilus! Why, he esteems her no more than I esteem an
PANDARUS. True, he was so; I know the cause too; he'll lay about
PANDARUS. Truly, lady, no.
PANDARUS. Walk here i' th' orchard, I'll bring her straight.
PANDARUS. Was he angry?
PANDARUS. Well sweet queen, you are pleasant with me. But, marry,
PANDARUS. Well, I have told you enough of this; for my part,
PANDARUS. Well, I say Troilus is Troilus.
PANDARUS. Well, cousin, I told you a thing yesterday; think on't.
PANDARUS. Well, she look'd yesternight fairer than ever I saw her
PANDARUS. Well, well! Why, have you any discretion? Have you any
PANDARUS. What a pair of spectacles is here! Let me embrace too. 'O
PANDARUS. What says my sweet queen, my very very sweet queen?
PANDARUS. What says my sweet queen?-My cousin will fall out with
PANDARUS. What were you talking of when I came? Was Hector arm'd
PANDARUS. What's that? What's that?
PANDARUS. What, blushing still? Have you not done talking yet?
PANDARUS. What, not between Troilus and Hector? Do you know a man
PANDARUS. Where are my tears? Rain, to lay this wind, or my heart
PANDARUS. Where?
PANDARUS. Where? yonder? That's Deiphobus. 'Tis Troilus. There's a
PANDARUS. Who play they to?
PANDARUS. Who's there? My lord Aeneas? By my troth,
PANDARUS. Who's there? What's the matter? Will you beat down the
PANDARUS. Who, Troilus? Troilus is the better man of the two.
PANDARUS. Who, my cousin, Cressida?
PANDARUS. Why, go to, then! But to prove to you that Helen loves
PANDARUS. Why, he is very young, and yet will he within three pound
PANDARUS. Why, you know, 'tis dimpled. I think his smiling becomes
PANDARUS. Will this gear ne'er be mended?
PANDARUS. Words pay no debts, give her deeds; but she'll bereave
PANDARUS. Would I were as deep under the earth as I am above!
PANDARUS. YOU have no judgment, niece. Helen herself swore th'
PANDARUS. You are such a woman! A man knows not at what ward you
PANDARUS. You are such another!
PANDARUS. You depend upon a notable gentleman; I must needs praise
PANDARUS. You depend upon him, I mean?
PANDARUS. You know me, do you not?
PANDARUS. You shall see.
PANDARUS. You speak your fair pleasure, sweet queen. Fair prince,
PANDARUS. You spy! What do you spy?-Come, give me an instrument.
PANDARUS. [Within] What's all the doors open here?
PARIS
PARIS. 'Tis Troilus' fault. Come, come to field with him.
PARIS. A valiant Greek, Aeneas -take his hand:
PARIS. And tell me, noble Diomed-faith, tell me true,
PARIS. Ay, good now, love, love, nothing but love.
PARIS. Else might the world convince of levity
PARIS. Fair Diomed, you do as chapmen do,
PARIS. Hark! Hector's trumpet.
PARIS. He eats nothing but doves, love; and that breeds hot blood,
PARIS. Hector, Deiphobus, Helenus, Antenor, and all the gallantry
PARIS. His purpose meets you: 'twas to bring this Greek
PARIS. I know what 'tis to love,
PARIS. I spy.
PARIS. I'll lay my life, with my disposer Cressida.
PARIS. It is great morning; and the hour prefix'd
PARIS. See, ho! Who is that there?
PARIS. Sir, I propose not merely to myself
PARIS. Sweet, above thought I love thee.                     Exeunt
PARIS. There is no help;
PARIS. They're come from the field. Let us to Priam's hall
PARIS. This is the most despiteful'st gentle greeting
PARIS. To a hair.
PARIS. Well said, my lord. Well, you say so in fits.
PARIS. Well, I'll make's excuse.
PARIS. What exploit's in hand? Where sups he to-night?
PARIS. You are too bitter to your country-woman.
PARIS. You have broke it, cousin; and by my life, you shall make it
PARIS. [Within] Brother Troilus!
PATROCLUS
PATROCLUS. A good riddance.
PATROCLUS. Achilles bids me say he is much sorry
PATROCLUS. Amen.
PATROCLUS. And to procure safe conduct from Agamemnon.
PATROCLUS. Ay, and perhaps receive much honour by him.
PATROCLUS. Ay, my lord.
PATROCLUS. Both take and give.
PATROCLUS. But that's no argument for kissing now;
PATROCLUS. Good words, Thersites.
PATROCLUS. I come from the worthy Achilles-
PATROCLUS. I shall say so to him.                              Exit
PATROCLUS. I shall, and bring his answer presently.            Exit
PATROCLUS. Jove bless great Ajax!
PATROCLUS. No more words, Thersites; peace!
PATROCLUS. O, then, beware:
PATROCLUS. Paris and I kiss evermore for him.
PATROCLUS. The first was Menelaus' kiss; this, mine-
PATROCLUS. Thersites, my lord.
PATROCLUS. They pass by strangely. They were us'd to bend,
PATROCLUS. Thou must tell that knowest.
PATROCLUS. Thy lord, Thersites. Then tell me, I pray thee, what's
PATROCLUS. To this effect, Achilles, have I mov'd you.
PATROCLUS. What you say to't?
PATROCLUS. What, art thou devout? Wast thou in prayer?
PATROCLUS. Who most humbly desires you to invite Hector to his
PATROCLUS. Who's there? Thersites! Good Thersites, come in and
PATROCLUS. Why am I a fool?
PATROCLUS. Within his tent; but ill-dispos'd, my lord.
PATROCLUS. You rascal!
PATROCLUS. Your answer, sir.
PATROCLUS. Your answer, sir.
PHILOTUS. All our bills.
PHRYNIA AND TIMANDRA. Give us some gold, good Timon.
PHRYNIA AND TIMANDRA. More counsel with more money, bounteous
PHRYNIA AND TIMANDRA. Well, more gold. What then?
PHRYNIA. Thy lips rot off!
POET. Hail, worthy Timon!
POET. I am thinking what I shall say I have provided for him. It
POET. I must serve him so too, tell him of an intent that's coming
POET. Nay, let's seek him;
POET. Nor I.
POET. Sir,
POET. Then this breaking of his has been but a try for his friends?
POET. What have you now to present unto him?
POET. to be thought of him? Does the rumour hold for true that he's
PRIAM, King of Troy
PRIAM. After so many hours, lives, speeches, spent,
PRIAM. Paris, you speak
PRIAM. What noise, what shriek is this?
PUBLIUS, son to Marcus Andronicus
PUBLIUS. And therefore do we what we are commanded.
PUBLIUS. No, my good lord; but Pluto sends you word,
PUBLIUS. The Empress' sons, I take them: Chiron, Demetrius.
PUBLIUS. Therefore, my lords, it highly us concerns
PUBLIUS. What is your will?
QUINTUS
QUINTUS & MARTIUS. And shall, or him we will accompany.
QUINTUS. Aaron is gone, and my compassionate heart
QUINTUS. Father, and in that name doth nature speak-
QUINTUS. He that would vouch it in any place but here.
QUINTUS. I am surprised with an uncouth fear;
QUINTUS. If it be dark, how dost thou know 'tis he?
QUINTUS. My sight is very dull, whate'er it bodes.
QUINTUS. Not I, till Mutius' bones be buried.
QUINTUS. Reach me thy hand, that I may help thee out,
QUINTUS. Thy hand once more; I will not loose again,
QUINTUS. What, art thou fallen? What subtle hole is this,
Romans and Goths, Senators, Tribunes, Officers, Soldiers, and
SATURNINUS, son to the late Emperor of Rome, afterwards Emperor
SATURNINUS.  [Aside]  A goodly lady, trust me; of the hue
SATURNINUS.  [To TITUS]  Two of thy whelps, fell curs of bloody
SATURNINUS. 'Tis good, sir. You are very short with us;
SATURNINUS. Aemilius, do this message honourably;
SATURNINUS. Along with me! I'll see what hole is here,
SATURNINUS. And therefore, lovely Tamora, Queen of Goths,
SATURNINUS. And you have rung it lustily, my lords-
SATURNINUS. Ascend, fair Queen, Pantheon. Lords, accompany
SATURNINUS. Away, and talk not; trouble us no more.
SATURNINUS. Ay, but the citizens favour Lucius,
SATURNINUS. Be it so, Titus, and gramercy too.
SATURNINUS. Because the girl should not survive her shame,
SATURNINUS. But go thy ways; go, give that changing piece
SATURNINUS. But he will not entreat his son for us.
SATURNINUS. Come on then, horse and chariots let us have,
SATURNINUS. Despiteful and intolerable wrongs!
SATURNINUS. Die, frantic wretch, for this accursed deed!
SATURNINUS. Friends, that have been thus forward in my right,
SATURNINUS. Go take him away, and hang him presently.
SATURNINUS. Go, fetch them hither to us presently.
SATURNINUS. Here, Tamora; though griev'd with killing grief.
SATURNINUS. How fair the Tribune speaks to calm my thoughts.
SATURNINUS. If it be prov'd! You see it is apparent.
SATURNINUS. Is warlike Lucius general of the Goths?
SATURNINUS. It was, Andronicus.
SATURNINUS. Marcus, for thy sake, and thy brother's here,
SATURNINUS. Marcus, we will.
SATURNINUS. My brother dead! I know thou dost but jest:
SATURNINUS. No, Titus, no; the Emperor needs her not,
SATURNINUS. Noble patricians, patrons of my right,
SATURNINUS. Now to the bottom dost thou search my wound;
SATURNINUS. Proud and ambitious Tribune, canst thou tell?
SATURNINUS. Rise, Titus, rise; my Empress hath prevail'd.
SATURNINUS. Romans, do me right.
SATURNINUS. So, Bassianus, you have play'd your prize:
SATURNINUS. Surpris'd! By whom?
SATURNINUS. Thanks, noble Titus, father of my life.
SATURNINUS. Thanks, sweet Lavinia. Romans, let us go.
SATURNINUS. Then go successantly, and plead to him.
SATURNINUS. Thou shalt not bail them; see thou follow me.
SATURNINUS. Titus Andronicus, for thy favours done
SATURNINUS. Traitor, if Rome have law or we have power,
SATURNINUS. What hast thou done, unnatural and unkind?
SATURNINUS. What, hath the firmament more suns than one?
SATURNINUS. What, madam! be dishonoured openly,
SATURNINUS. What, was she ravish'd? Tell who did the deed.
SATURNINUS. Why art thou thus attir'd, Andronicus?
SATURNINUS. Why, lords, what wrongs are these! Was ever seen
SECOND BANDIT. 'Tis his description.
SECOND BANDIT. I'll believe him as an enemy, and give over my
SECOND BANDIT. It is nois'd he hath a mass of treasure.
SECOND BANDIT. True; for he bears it not about him. 'Tis hid.
SECOND GOTH. Renowned Lucius, from our troops I stray'd
SECOND LORD. A thousand pieces!
SECOND LORD. All cover'd dishes!
SECOND LORD. Every man here's so. What would he have borrowed of
SECOND LORD. He sent to me, sir- here he comes.
SECOND LORD. Here 'tis.
SECOND LORD. I also wish it to you. I think this honourable lord
SECOND LORD. I pray you, upon what?
SECOND LORD. If you had sent but two hours before-
SECOND LORD. In like manner was I in debt to my importunate
SECOND LORD. It does; but time will- and so-
SECOND LORD. It should not be, by the persuasion of his new
SECOND LORD. Know you the quality of Lord Timon's fury?
SECOND LORD. Lord Timon's mad.
SECOND LORD. My most honourable lord, I am e'en sick of shame that,
SECOND LORD. My noble lord-
SECOND LORD. The swallow follows not summer more willing than we
SECOND LORD. This is the old man still.
SECOND SENATOR. And enter in our ears like great triumphers
SECOND SENATOR. And shakes his threat'ning sword
SECOND SENATOR. At all times alike
SECOND SENATOR. He has made too much plenty with 'em.
SECOND SENATOR. How!
SECOND SENATOR. Most true; the law shall bruise him.
SECOND SENATOR. Nor are they living
SECOND SENATOR. Our hope in him is dead. Let us return
SECOND SENATOR. So did we woo
SECOND SENATOR. They confess
SECOND SENATOR. Throw thy glove,
SECOND SENATOR. We stand much hazard if they bring not Timon.
SECOND SENATOR. What thou wilt,
SECOND SENATOR. You breathe in vain.
SECOND SERVANT. As we do turn our backs
SECOND VARRO'S SERVANT. My lord-
SECOND VARRO'S SERVANT. No matter what; he's poor, and that's
SEMPRONIUS
SERVANT to Diomedes
SERVANT to Paris
SERVANT to Troilus
SERVANT. At mine, sir, and theirs that love music.
SERVANT. Ay, sir, when he goes before me.
SERVANT. Faith, sir, superficially.
SERVANT. I do but partly know, sir; it is music in parts.
SERVANT. I hope I shall know your honour better.
SERVANT. No, sir, Helen. Could not you find out that by her
SERVANT. Sir, I do depend upon the lord.
SERVANT. Sodden business! There's a stew'd phrase indeed!
SERVANT. That's to't, indeed, sir. Marry, sir, at the request of
SERVANT. The lord be praised!
SERVANT. To the hearers, sir.
SERVANT. Who shall I command, sir?
SERVANT. Wholly, sir.
SERVANT. You are in the state of grace.
SERVILIUS. Good gods!
SERVILIUS. If I might beseech you, gentlemen, to repair some other
SOLDIER. By all description this should be the place.
SOLDIER. My noble General, Timon is dead;
SOME OTHER. I know not.
SOME SPEAK. What does his lordship mean?
TAMORA, Queen of the Goths
TAMORA.  [Aside to her sons]  What say you, boys? Will you abide
TAMORA. Ah, my sweet Moor, sweeter to me than life!
TAMORA. And here in sight of heaven to Rome I swear,
TAMORA. Andronicus himself did take it up.
TAMORA. Andronicus, I will entreat the King.
TAMORA. But when ye have the honey we desire,
TAMORA. Come, sirrah, you must be hang'd.
TAMORA. Empress I am, but yonder sits the Emperor.
TAMORA. Farewell, Andronicus, Revenge now goes
TAMORA. Farewell, my sons; see that you make her sure.
TAMORA. Give me the poniard; you shall know, my boys,
TAMORA. Hadst thou in person ne'er offended me,
TAMORA. Have I not reason, think you, to look pale?
TAMORA. I am; therefore come down and welcome me.
TAMORA. I know not what it means; away with her!
TAMORA. I will not hear her speak; away with her!
TAMORA. If Tamora entreat him, then he will;
TAMORA. If thou didst know me, thou wouldst talk with me.
TAMORA. King, be thy thoughts imperious like thy name!
TAMORA. Know thou, sad man, I am not Tamora:
TAMORA. My gracious lord, my lovely Saturnine,
TAMORA. My lovely Aaron, wherefore look'st thou sad
TAMORA. My worthy lord, if ever Tamora
TAMORA. Nay, nay, sweet Emperor, we must all be friends.
TAMORA. Not so, my lord; the gods of Rome forfend
TAMORA. Now will I hence about thy business,
TAMORA. Now will I to that old Andronicus,
TAMORA. O cruel, irreligious piety!
TAMORA. Rape and Murder; therefore called so
TAMORA. Saucy controller of my private steps!
TAMORA. Show me a thousand that hath done thee wrong,
TAMORA. So should I rob my sweet sons of their fee;
TAMORA. Stay, Roman brethen! Gracious conqueror,
TAMORA. Then all too late I bring this fatal writ,
TAMORA. These are my ministers, and come with me.
TAMORA. This closing with him fits his lunacy.
TAMORA. Thus, in this strange and sad habiliment,
TAMORA. Titus, I am come to talk with thee.
TAMORA. Titus, I am incorporate in Rome,
TAMORA. We are beholding to you, good Andronicus.
TAMORA. Well hast thou lesson'd us; this shall we do.
TAMORA. What beg'st thou, then? Fond woman, let me go.
TAMORA. What wouldst thou have us do, Andronicus?
TAMORA. What, are they in this pit? O wondrous thing!
TAMORA. Where is my lord the King?
TAMORA. Where is thy brother Bassianus?
TAMORA. Why hast thou slain thine only daughter thus?
TAMORA. Why should you fear? Is not your city strong?
TAMORA. Why, I have patience to endure all this.
THERSITES, a deformed and scurrilous Greek
THERSITES. 'Tis no matter; I shall speak as much as thou
THERSITES. A wonder!
THERSITES. Agamemnon is a fool to offer to command Achilles;
THERSITES. Agamemnon is a fool; Achilles is a fool; Thersites is a
THERSITES. Agamemnon!
THERSITES. Agamemnon-how if he had boils full, an over, generally?
THERSITES. Ajax goes up and down the field asking for himself.
THERSITES. And those boils did run-say so. Did not the general run
THERSITES. As will stop the eye of Helen's needle, for whom he
THERSITES. Ay, but that fool knows not himself.
THERSITES. Ay, do, do; thou sodden-witted lord! Thou hast no more
THERSITES. Ay, the heavens hear me!
THERSITES. But yet you look not well upon him; for who some ever
THERSITES. Do, do.
THERSITES. Dost thou think I have no sense, thou strikest me thus?
THERSITES. E'en so; a great deal of your wit too lies in your
THERSITES. Fare ye well, with all my heart.
THERSITES. God buy you, with all my heart.
THERSITES. Ha!
THERSITES. Ha!
THERSITES. Has not so much wit-
THERSITES. He must fight singly to-morrow with Hector, and is so
THERSITES. He would pun thee into shivers with his fist, as a
THERSITES. Here is such patchery, such juggling, and such knavery.
THERSITES. How now, Thersites! What, lost in the labyrinth of thy
THERSITES. Hum!
THERSITES. Hum!
THERSITES. I say this Ajax-             [AJAX offers to strike him]
THERSITES. I serve here voluntary.
THERSITES. I serve thee not.
THERSITES. I shall sooner rail thee into wit and holiness; but I
THERSITES. I will hold my peace when Achilles' brach bids me, shall
THERSITES. I will see you hang'd like clotpoles ere I come any more
THERSITES. I would have peace and quietness, but the fool will not-
THERSITES. I would thou didst itch from head to foot and I had the
THERSITES. I'll decline the whole question. Agamemnon commands
THERSITES. If I could 'a rememb'red a gilt counterfeit, thou
THERSITES. If to-morrow be a fair day, by eleven of the clock it
THERSITES. Let me carry another to his horse; for that's the more
THERSITES. Lo, lo, lo, lo, what modicums of wit he utters! His
THERSITES. Make that demand of the Creator. It suffices me thou
THERSITES. Mars his idiot! Do, rudeness; do, camel; do, do.
THERSITES. Nay, but regard him well.
THERSITES. Nay, look upon him.
THERSITES. No, I warrant you, the fool's will shame it.
THERSITES. No, but he's out a tune thus. What music will be in him
THERSITES. Peace, fool! I have not done.
THERSITES. The plague of Greece upon thee, thou mongrel beef-witted
THERSITES. Then there would come some matter from him;
THERSITES. There's Ulysses and old Nestor-whose wit was mouldy ere
THERSITES. Thou art proclaim'd, a fool, I think.
THERSITES. Thou grumblest and railest every hour on Achilles; and
THERSITES. Thou shouldst strike him.
THERSITES. Thy commander, Achilles. Then tell me, Patroclus, what's
THERSITES. Thy knower, Patroclus. Then tell me, Patroclus, what art
THERSITES. Who, I? Why, he'll answer nobody; he professes not
THERSITES. Why, 'a stalks up and down like a peacock-a stride and a
THERSITES. Would the fountain of your mind were clear again, that I
THERSITES. Yes, good sooth. To Achilles, to Ajax, to-
THERSITES. You scurvy lord!
THERSITES. You see him there, do you?
THIRD BANDIT. Has almost charm'd me from my profession by
THIRD BANDIT. He; I know him.
THIRD BANDIT. Let us make the assay upon him; if he care not for't,
THIRD LORD. 'Tis so, be sure of it.
THIRD LORD. Alcibiades is banish'd. Hear you of it?
THIRD LORD. Did you see my cap?
THIRD LORD. Doubt not that, if money and the season can yield it.
THIRD LORD. I do conceive.
THIRD LORD. I feel't upon my bones.
THIRD LORD. I'll tell you more anon. Here's a noble feast toward.
THIRD LORD. Push! Did you see my cap?
THIRD LORD. Will't hold? Will't hold?
THIRD SENATOR. No talk of Timon, nothing of him expect.
THIRD SENATOR. What!
THIRD SERVANT. Yet do our hearts wear Timon's livery;
TIMANDRA. Hang thee, monster!
TIMANDRA. Is this th' Athenian minion whom the world
TIMANDRA. Yes.
TIMON. 'Tis not well mended so; it is but botch'd.
TIMON. 'Tis, then, because thou dost not keep a dog,
TIMON. A beast, as thou art. The canker gnaw thy heart
TIMON. A beastly ambition, which the gods grant thee t' attain to!
TIMON. A fool of thee. Depart.
TIMON. Ah, my good friend, what cheer?
TIMON. All villains that do stand by thee are pure.
TIMON. Always a villain's office or a fool's.
TIMON. Art thou Timandra?
TIMON. As the moon does, by wanting light to give.
TIMON. As thine is now, held with a brace of harlots.
TIMON. Away! What art thou?
TIMON. Away,
TIMON. Away, thou issue of a mangy dog!
TIMON. Ay, and you hear him cog, see him dissemble,
TIMON. Ay, that I am not thee.
TIMON. Ay, though it look like thee.
TIMON. Ay, you are honest men.
TIMON. Be a whore still; they love thee not that use thee.
TIMON. Be it not in thy care.
TIMON. Both too, and women's sons.
TIMON. But yet I love my country, and am not
TIMON. Come not to me again; but say to Athens
TIMON. Commend me to my loving countrymen-
TIMON. Commend me to them,
TIMON. Consumptions sow
TIMON. Cut my heart in sums.
TIMON. Dost thou, or dost thou not, heaven's curse upon thee!
TIMON. E'en so, sir, as I say. [To To POET] And for thy fiction,
TIMON. Each man to his stool with that spur as he would to the lip
TIMON. Enough to make a whore forswear her trade,
TIMON. First mend my company: take away thyself.
TIMON. Five thousand drops pays that. What yours? and yours?
TIMON. Good honest men! Thou draw'st a counterfeit
TIMON. Had I a steward
TIMON. Have I once liv'd to see two honest men?
TIMON. How dost thou pity him whom thou dost trouble?
TIMON. How has the ass broke the wall, that thou art out of the
TIMON. I am Misanthropos, and hate mankind.
TIMON. I hate thee worse.
TIMON. I have a tree, which grows here in my close,
TIMON. I know thee too; and more than that I know thee
TIMON. I prithee beat thy drum and get thee gone.
TIMON. I thank them; and would send them back the plague,
TIMON. I understand thee: thou hadst some means to keep a dog.
TIMON. I will not kiss thee; then the rot returns
TIMON. I'll have it so. My steward!
TIMON. I, that I am one now.
TIMON. If I hope well, I'll never see thee more.
TIMON. If I name thee.
TIMON. If thou hat'st curses,
TIMON. Keep it: I cannot eat it.
TIMON. Knock me down with 'em; cleave me to the girdle.
TIMON. Let it go naked: men may see't the better.
TIMON. Let it not cumber your better remembrance. [The banquet
TIMON. Let me look back upon thee. O thou wall
TIMON. Long live so, and so die! [Exit APEMANTUS] I am quit. More
TIMON. Look thee, 'tis so! Thou singly honest man,
TIMON. Look you, I love you well; I'll give you gold,
TIMON. May you a better feast never behold,
TIMON. Men daily find it. Get thee away, and take
TIMON. More whore, more mischief first; I have given you earnest.
TIMON. Most honest men! Why, how shall I requite you?
TIMON. My worthy friends, will you draw near?
TIMON. None, but to
TIMON. Nor on the beasts themselves, the birds, and fishes;
TIMON. Not by his breath that is more miserable.
TIMON. Now, thieves?
TIMON. O blessed breeding sun, draw from the earth
TIMON. O sir, let it not trouble you.
TIMON. Of none but such as you, and you of Timon.
TIMON. On what I hate I feed not.
TIMON. Promise me friendship, but perform none. If thou wilt not
TIMON. Rogue, rogue, rogue!
TIMON. Slave!
TIMON. So fitly? Go, bid all my friends again:
TIMON. Tear me, take me, and the gods fall upon you!      Exit
TIMON. Tell out my blood.
TIMON. That by killing of villains
TIMON. That nature, being sick of man's unkindness,
TIMON. The best and truest;
TIMON. The gods confound them all in thy conquest;
TIMON. Thee thither in a whirlwind. If thou wilt,
TIMON. Then I know thee not.
TIMON. There's never a one of you but trusts a knave
TIMON. They have e'en put my breath from me, the slaves.
TIMON. Think not on't, sir.
TIMON. Thou flatter'st misery.
TIMON. Thou saw'st them when I had prosperity.
TIMON. Thou sun that comforts, burn. Speak and be hang'd!
TIMON. Throng'd to?
TIMON. Thy back, I prithee.
TIMON. To sauce thy dishes.
TIMON. Under that's above me.
TIMON. War'st thou 'gainst Athens?
TIMON. Well, sir, I will. Therefore I will, sir, thus:
TIMON. Were I like thee, I'd throw away myself.
TIMON. What if it should be so?
TIMON. What, a knave too?
TIMON. What, are my doors oppos'd against my passage?
TIMON. What, dost thou weep? Come nearer. Then I love thee
TIMON. When there is nothing living but thee, thou shalt be
TIMON. Who, without those means thou talk'st of, didst thou ever
TIMON. Why dost ask that? I have forgot all men;
TIMON. Why dost thou seek me out?
TIMON. Why, I was writing of my epitaph;
TIMON. Will you indeed?
TIMON. With all my heart, gentlemen both! And how fare you?
TIMON. Women nearest; but men, men are the things themselves. What
TIMON. Would poison were obedient, and knew my mind!
TIMON. Would thou wert clean enough to spit upon!
TIMON. Wouldst thou have thyself fall in the confusion of men, and
TIMON. Y'are honest men. Y'have heard that I have gold;
TIMON. Yes, thou spok'st well of me.
TIMON. You that way, and you this- but two in company;
TIMON. You witch me in it;
TIMON. You'll take it ill.
TIMON. Your greatest want is, you want much of meat.
TIMON. [Aside] Excellent workman! Thou canst not paint a man so bad
TIMON. [Aside] I'll meet you at the turn. What a god's gold,
TIMON. [Aside] Must thou needs stand for a villain in thine own
TIMON. [Aside] Nor more willingly leaves winter; such summer-birds
TITUS ANDRONICUS, a noble Roman
TITUS, when wert thou wont to walk alone,
TITUS.  [Aside]  I knew them all, though they suppos'd me mad,
TITUS.  [To TAMORA]  Now, madam, are you prisoner to an emperor;
TITUS. 'And shall!' What villain was it spake that word?
TITUS. 'But!' How if that fly had a father and mother?
TITUS. 'Stuprum- Chiron- Demetrius.'
TITUS. 'Tis sure enough, an you knew how;
TITUS. A better head her glorious body fits
TITUS. A reason mighty, strong, and effectual;
TITUS. Agree between you; I will spare my hand.
TITUS. Ah, Lucius, for thy brothers let me plead!
TITUS. Ah, Marcus, Marcus! Brother, well I wot
TITUS. An if your Highness knew my heart, you were.
TITUS. And I have horse will follow where the game
TITUS. Are they thy ministers? What are they call'd?
TITUS. Art thou Revenge? and art thou sent to me
TITUS. Because I would be sure to have all well
TITUS. But what says Jupiter, I ask thee?
TITUS. Come hither, Aaron, I'll deceive them both;
TITUS. Come, Lucius, come; stay not to talk with them.     Exeunt
TITUS. Come, Marcus, come; kinsmen, this is the way.
TITUS. Come, Marcus, let us go. Publius, follow me.     Exeunt
TITUS. Come, come, Lavinia; look, thy foes are bound.
TITUS. Come, go with me into mine armoury.
TITUS. Come, take away. Lavinia, go with me;
TITUS. Content thee, Prince; I will restore to thee
TITUS. Do me some service ere I come to thee.
TITUS. Faint-hearted boy, arise, and look upon her.
TITUS. Fear her not, Lucius; somewhat doth she mean.
TITUS. Fie, Publius, fie! thou art too much deceiv'd.
TITUS. Follow, my lord, and I'll soon bring her back.
TITUS. Give signs, sweet girl, for here are none but friends,
TITUS. Good Lord, how like the Empress' sons they are!
TITUS. Ha! ha!
TITUS. Ha, ha, ha!
TITUS. Hail, Rome, victorious in thy mourning weeds!
TITUS. He doth me wrong to feed me with delays.
TITUS. Hear me, grave fathers; noble Tribunes, stay!
TITUS. High Emperor, upon my feeble knee
TITUS. How now! Has sorrow made thee dote already?
TITUS. How now, Lavinia! Marcus, what means this?
TITUS. How, sir! Are you in earnest then, my lord?
TITUS. I am not bid to wait upon this bride.
TITUS. I am not mad, I know thee well enough:
TITUS. I did, my lord, yet let me be their bail;
TITUS. I give him you- the noblest that survives,
TITUS. I know not, Marcus, but I know it is-
TITUS. I know thou dost; and, sweet Revenge, farewell.
TITUS. I thank your Majesty and her, my lord;
TITUS. If there were reason for these miseries,
TITUS. If they did kill thy husband, then be joyful,
TITUS. Is not my sorrow deep, having no bottom?
TITUS. It doth, my worthy lord, and in this match
TITUS. It was my dear, and he that wounded her
TITUS. Kill'd her for whom my tears have made me blind.
TITUS. Kind Rome, that hast thus lovingly reserv'd
TITUS. Know you these two?
TITUS. Lavinia, wert thou thus surpris'd, sweet girl,
TITUS. Let it be so, and let Andronicus
TITUS. Long have I been forlorn, and all for thee.
TITUS. Look round about the wicked streets of Rome,
TITUS. Lucius, what book is that she tosseth so?
TITUS. Magni Dominator poli,
TITUS. Marcus, even thou hast struck upon my crest,
TITUS. Marcus, my brother! 'Tis sad Titus calls.
TITUS. Mark, Marcus, mark! I understand her signs.
TITUS. Mine, fifty talents.
TITUS. My lord, here is my bill.
TITUS. Nay, nay, let Rape and Murder stay with me,
TITUS. No, boy, not so; I'll teach thee another course.
TITUS. No, foolish Tribune, no; no son of mine-
TITUS. No, not a word. How can I grace my talk,
TITUS. Nor thou nor he are any sons of mine;
TITUS. Not I; 'twas Chiron and Demetrius.
TITUS. Now, masters, draw.  [They shoot]  O, well said, Lucius!
TITUS. O gracious Emperor! O gentle Aaron!
TITUS. O happy man! they have befriended thee.
TITUS. O monstrous! What reproachful words are these?
TITUS. O, O, O!
TITUS. O, here I lift this one hand up to heaven,
TITUS. O, here's Servilius; now we shall know some answer.
TITUS. Out on thee, murderer, thou kill'st my heart!
TITUS. Patience, Prince Saturninus.
TITUS. Patient yourself, madam, and pardon me.
TITUS. Peace, tender sapling; thou art made of tears,
TITUS. People of Rome, and people's Tribunes here,
TITUS. Prince Bassianus, leave to plead my deeds.
TITUS. Publius, how now? How now, my masters?
TITUS. Rise, Marcus, rise;
TITUS. She loves thee, boy, too well to do thee harm.
TITUS. Sirrah, come hither. Make no more ado,
TITUS. Sirrah, hast thou a knife? Come let me see it.
TITUS. Sirs, strive no more; such with'red herbs as these
TITUS. So so, now sit; and look you eat no more
TITUS. Soft! So busily she turns the leaves! Help her.
TITUS. Speak thou no more, if all the rest will speed.
TITUS. Tell me, can you deliver an oration to the Emperor with a
TITUS. Thanks, gentle Tribune, noble brother Marcus.
TITUS. The hunt is up, the morn is bright and grey,
TITUS. Then here is a supplication for you. And when you come to
TITUS. These words are razors to my wounded heart.
TITUS. To-morrow, and it please your Majesty
TITUS. Traitors, avaunt! Where is the Emperor's guard?
TITUS. Traitors, away! He rests not in this tomb.
TITUS. Tribunes, I thank you; and this suit I make,
TITUS. Tut, I have work enough for you to do.
TITUS. We cannot take this for answer, sir.
TITUS. Welcome, my lord; welcome, dread Queen;
TITUS. What, villain boy!
TITUS. What, would you bury him in my despite?
TITUS. When will this fearful slumber have an end?
TITUS. Who doth molest my contemplation?
TITUS. Why, 'tis no matter, man: if they did hear,
TITUS. Why, I have not another tear to shed;
TITUS. Why, Marcus, so she is.
TITUS. Why, didst thou not come from heaven?
TITUS. Why, there it goes! God give his lordship joy!
TITUS. Why, there they are, both baked in this pie,
TITUS. Why, villain, art not thou the carrier?
TITUS. Will it consume me? Let me see it then.
TITUS. Will't please you eat?  Will't please your Highness feed?
TITUS. Your reason, mighty lord.
TRIBUNES. To gratify the good Andronicus,
TROILUS
TROILUS. 'Tis our mad sister; I do know her voice.
TROILUS. A hateful truth.
TROILUS. Amen.
TROILUS. And I'll grow friend with danger. Wear this sleeve.
TROILUS. And shall, albeit sweet music issues thence.
TROILUS. And suddenly; where injury of chance
TROILUS. Are there such? Such are not we. Praise us as we are
TROILUS. Because not there. This woman's answer sorts,
TROILUS. Beshrew the witch! with venomous wights she stays
TROILUS. Better at home, if 'would I might' were 'may.'
TROILUS. By whom, Aeneas?
TROILUS. Call here my varlet; I'll unarm again.
TROILUS. Come, go we then together.                          Exeunt
TROILUS. Come, kiss; and let us part.
TROILUS. Come, to the port. I'll tell thee, Diomed,
TROILUS. Cressid, I love thee in so strain'd a purity
TROILUS. Dear, trouble not yourself; the morn is cold.
TROILUS. Die I a villain, then!
TROILUS. Even such a passion doth embrace my bosom.
TROILUS. Fears make devils of cherubims; they never see truly.
TROILUS. Fie, fie, my brother!
TROILUS. From Troy and Troilus.
TROILUS. Good Pandarus! How now, Pandarus!
TROILUS. Good brother, come you hither;
TROILUS. Grecian, thou dost not use me courteously
TROILUS. Ha! ha!
TROILUS. Hark! you are call'd. Some say the Genius so
TROILUS. Have I not tarried?
TROILUS. Have I not tarried?
TROILUS. Hear me, my love. Be thou but true of heart-
TROILUS. Hear why I speak it, love.
TROILUS. Hector, thou sleep'st;
TROILUS. How my achievements mock me!
TROILUS. How now! What's the matter?
TROILUS. I am giddy; expectation whirls me round.
TROILUS. I prithee now, to bed.
TROILUS. I take to-day a wife, and my election
TROILUS. I was about to tell thee: when my heart,
TROILUS. I will corrupt the Grecian sentinels
TROILUS. Is it so concluded?
TROILUS. It is your uncle.
TROILUS. Let Paris bleed: 'tis but a scar to scorn;
TROILUS. Nay, we must use expostulation kindly,
TROILUS. No remedy.
TROILUS. No, Pandarus. I stalk about her door
TROILUS. No.
TROILUS. Nothing, but our undertakings when we vow to weep seas,
TROILUS. O Cressid, how often have I wish'd me thus!
TROILUS. O Cressida! but that the busy day,
TROILUS. O Pandarus! I tell thee, Pandarus-
TROILUS. O that I thought it could be in a woman-
TROILUS. O virtuous fight,
TROILUS. O, let my lady apprehend no fear! In all Cupid's pageant
TROILUS. Pandarus!
TROILUS. Patience herself, what goddess e'er she be,
TROILUS. Peace, you ungracious clamours! Peace, rude sounds!
TROILUS. Say I she is not fair?
TROILUS. Sirrah, walk off.                                 Exit Boy
TROILUS. Still have I tarried.
TROILUS. Sweet Pandarus!
TROILUS. The Greeks are strong, and skilful to their strength,
TROILUS. Thou dost not speak so much.
TROILUS. Trouble him not;
TROILUS. Walk into her house.
TROILUS. Well know they what they speak that speak so wisely.
TROILUS. What offends you, lady?
TROILUS. What should they grant? What makes this pretty abruption?
TROILUS. What's aught but as 'tis valued?
TROILUS. What, art thou angry, Pandarus? What, with me?
TROILUS. Who, I? Alas, it is my vice, my fault!
TROILUS. Why was my Cressid then so hard to win?
TROILUS. Why, brother Hector,
TROILUS. Why, there you touch'd the life of our design.
TROILUS. You are for dreams and slumbers, brother priest;
TROILUS. You cannot shun yourself.
TROILUS. You have bereft me of all words, lady.
TROILUS. You know now your hostages: your uncle's word and my firm
TROILUS. Your leave, sweet Cressid!
Trojan and Greek Soldiers, and Attendants
ULYSSES
ULYSSES. 'Tis he, I ken the manner of his gait:
ULYSSES. A strange fellow here
ULYSSES. Achilles hath inveigled his fool from him.
ULYSSES. Achilles stands i' th' entrance of his tent.
ULYSSES. Achilles will not to the field to-morrow.
ULYSSES. Agamemnon,
ULYSSES. Amen.
ULYSSES. And wake him to the answer, think you?
ULYSSES. Ay, or surly borne.
ULYSSES. But 'gainst your privacy
ULYSSES. Fie, fie upon her!
ULYSSES. Give pardon to my speech.
ULYSSES. He doth rely on none;
ULYSSES. He.
ULYSSES. I do desire it.
ULYSSES. I do not strain at the position-
ULYSSES. I have a young conception in my brain;
ULYSSES. If he were proud.
ULYSSES. Is that a wonder?
ULYSSES. It were no match, your nail against his horn.
ULYSSES. Know the whole world, he is as valiant.
ULYSSES. Nestor!
ULYSSES. Never's my day, and then a kiss of you.
ULYSSES. No trumpet answers.
ULYSSES. No; you see he is his argument that has his argument-
ULYSSES. Not for the worth that hangs upon our quarrel.
ULYSSES. Now, great Thetis' son!
ULYSSES. O Agamemnon, let it not be so!
ULYSSES. O deadly gall, and theme of all our scorns!
ULYSSES. Thank the heavens, lord, thou art of sweet composure
ULYSSES. The amity that wisdom knits not, folly may easily untie.
ULYSSES. The elephant hath joints, but none for courtesy; his legs
ULYSSES. The great Achilles, whom opinion crowns
ULYSSES. The youngest son of Priam, a true knight;
ULYSSES. There is no tarrying here; the hart Achilles
ULYSSES. They are oppos'd already.
ULYSSES. They tax our policy and call it cowardice,
ULYSSES. Things small as nothing, for request's sake only,
ULYSSES. This 'tis:
ULYSSES. This challenge that the gallant Hector sends,
ULYSSES. Time hath, my lord, a wallet at his back,
ULYSSES. Troy, yet upon his basis, had been down,
ULYSSES. We saw him at the opening of his tent.
ULYSSES. What glory our Achilles shares from Hector,
ULYSSES. Why 'tis this naming of him does him harm.
ULYSSES. Why then, for Venus' sake give me a kiss
ULYSSES. Yet is the kindness but particular;
ULYSSES. [Aside] 'A would have ten shares.
ULYSSES. [Aside] The raven chides blackness.
ULYSSES. [Aside] Wit would be out of fashion.
ULYSSES. [To AGAMEMNON] My lord, you feed too much on this dislike.
VALENTINE
YOUNG LUCIUS, a boy, son to Lucius
TITUS. Now stay your strife. What shall be is dispatch'd.
1594
1602
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
A banquet.
A banqueting hall in TIMON'S house
A forest near Rome
A lonely part of the forest
ACT 1. SCENE I.
ACT I. SCENE 1.
ACT I. SCENE 2.
ACT I. SCENE 3.
ACT II. SCENE 1.
ACT II. SCENE 2.
ACT II. SCENE 3.
ACT II. SCENE I.
ACT III. SCENE 1.
ACT III. SCENE 2.
ACT III. SCENE 3.
ACT III. SCENE I.
ACT IV. SCENE 1.
ACT IV. SCENE 2.
ACT IV. SCENE 3.
ACT IV. SCENE 4.
ACT IV. SCENE 5.
ACT IV. SCENE I.
ACT IV. SCENE I.
ACT V. SCENE I.
ACT V. SCENE I.
Another part of the forest
Athens. TIMON's house
Before the walls of Athens
Before the walls of Athens
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
DRAMATIS PERSONAE
Dramatis Personae
Enter AARON
Enter AARON alone, with a bag of gold
Enter AARON, DEMETRIUS and CHIRON, at one door; and at the other door,
Enter AJAX, armed; AGAMEMNON, ACHILLES, PATROCLUS, MENELAUS, ULYSSES,
Enter Ajax and THERSITES
Enter CRESSIDA and her man ALEXANDER
Enter FLAVIUS, with two or three SERVANTS
Enter LUCIUS with an army of GOTHS with drums and colours
Enter Lucius, MARCUS, and the GOTHS, with AARON prisoner,
Enter PANDARUS and CRESSIDA
Enter PANDARUS and TROILUS' BOY, meeting
Enter PARIS, TROILUS, AENEAS, DEIPHOBUS, ANTENOR, and DIOMEDES
Enter POET and PAINTER
Enter PRIAM, HECTOR, TROILUS, PARIS, and HELENUS
Enter TAMORA, and her two sons, DEMETRIUS and CHIRON, disguised
Enter THERSITES, solus
Enter TIMON
Enter TIMON in the woods
Enter TITUS ANDRONICUS, and his three sons, LUCIUS, QUINTUS, MARTIUS,
Enter TITUS and MARCUS
Enter TITUS, MARCUS, LAVINIA, and the boy YOUNG LUCIUS
Enter TITUS, bearing arrows with letters on the ends of them;
Enter TROILUS and CRESSIDA
Enter TROILUS armed, and PANDARUS
Enter YOUNG LUCIUS and LAVINIA running after him,
Enter a SOLDIER in the woods, seeking TIMON
Enter the EMPEROR, and the EMPRESS and her two sons, DEMETRIUS and CHIRON;
Enter the Empress' sons, DEMETRIUS and CHIRON, with LAVINIA,
Enter the JUDGES, TRIBUNES, and SENATORS, with TITUS' two sons
Enter three SENATORS at one door, ALCIBIADES meeting them, with attendants
Enter two other SENATORS with a MESSENGER
Enter, at one side, AENEAS, and servant with a torch; at another,
Flourish. Enter AGAMEMNON, ULYSSES, DIOMEDES, NESTOR, AJAX, MENELAUS,
Flourish. Enter the TRIBUNES and SENATORS aloft; and then enter below
LORDS and others. The EMPEROR brings the arrows in his hand that TITUS
MARTIUS and QUINTUS bound, passing on the stage to the place of execution,
Music sounds within. Enter PANDARUS and a SERVANT
Music. Tables set out; servants attending. Enter divers LORDS,
NESTOR, and others
PARIS, DEIPHOBUS, ANTENOR, DIOMEDES the Grecian, and others, with torches
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
PROLOGUE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE COLLEGE
PUBLIUS, SEMPRONIUS, and CAIUS, with bows
Plains near Rome
Rome. A public place
Rome. A street
Rome. Before TITUS' house
Rome. Before the Capitol
Rome. Before the palace
Rome. Before the palace
Rome. TITUS' garden
Rome. TITUS' house
Rome. The palace
SATURNINUS and his followers at one door, and BASSIANUS and his followers
SCENE II.
SCENE II.
SCENE II.
SCENE II.
SCENE II.
SCENE II.
SCENE III.
SCENE III.
SCENE III.
SCENE III.
SCENE III.
SCENE IV.
SCENE IV.
SCENE IV.
SCENE V.
SCENE VI.
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
Sennet. Enter AGAMEMNON, NESTOR, ULYSSES, DIOMEDES, MENELAUS, and others
THE END
THE END
THE HISTORY OF TROILUS AND CRESSIDA
THE TRAGEDY OF TITUS ANDRONICUS
The Grecian camp
The Grecian camp. Before AGAMEMNON'S tent
The Grecian camp. Before the tent of ACHILLES
The Grecian camp. Lists set out
The Greek camp
The Senate House
The TIMON's cave, and a rude tomb seen
The court of TITUS' house
The woods near the sea-shore. Before TIMON'S cave
The woods. Before TIMON's cave
Troy. A street
Troy. A street
Troy. A street before PANDARUS' house
Troy. Before PRIAM'S palace
Troy. PANDARUS' house
Troy. PANDARUS' orchard
Troy. PRIAM'S palace
Troy. PRIAM'S palace
Troy. The court of PANDARUS' house
Trumpets sound. Enter ALCIBIADES with his powers before Athens
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
Without the walls of Athens
YOUNG LUCIUS and another with a bundle of weapons, and verses writ upon them
and CALCHAS
and TITUS going before, pleading
and his CHILD in the arms of an attendant
and the boy flies from her with his books under his arm.
at the other, with drums and trumpets
by William Shakespeare
by William Shakespeare
friends of TIMON, at several doors
her hands cut off, and her tongue cut out, and ravish'd
making a noise with hounds and horns; and MARCUS
shot at him
with him MARCUS, YOUNG LUCIUS, and other gentlemen,
