






Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
[Draws]
Exit DAVY
Exit FRANCIS
Exit Officer
Exit WARWICK
Exit HASTINGS
Exit SALISBURY
Sennet. Exeunt
Exeunt soldiers
[Gives a paper]
[Shouts within]
Flourish. Exeunt
[Giving a crown]
Exit WESTMORELAND
Exit WESTMORELAND
[Knocking within]
Exeunt AMBASSADORS
Exeunt all but BOY
[Sheathes his sword]
[PISTOL and Nym draw]
Exeunt some attendants
Exeunt BLUNT and others
Exeunt all but FALSTAFF
Exeunt all but the KING
[Laying down his sword]
[Snatching up his sword]
Exeunt GOWER and FLUELLEN
Exeunt all but the PRINCE
Exeunt PISTOL and BARDOLPH
Exeunt heralds with MONTJOY
Exeunt FALSTAFF and BARDOLPH
[Leaning his band upon DOLL]
[Alarum, and chambers go off]
Exeunt second and third DRAWERS
[HERALD presents another paper]
Exeunt CHIEF JUSTICE and SERVANT
Exeunt FALSTAFF and the JUSTICES
[Drawing and driving PISTOL out]
Enter GOWER
among them
Enter FALSTAFF
Enter PETO
Exeunt MESSENGER and certain LORDS
SCENE:
BLUNT, and others
Enter DAVY
Enter PISTOL
Enter the KING
PROLOGUE.
Re-enter FRANCIS
with officers
EPILOGUE.
EPILOGUE.
Enter BARDOLPH
[Exeunt. Alarum, and chambers go off]
[PISTOL and Nym sheathe their swords]
Enter A MESSENGER
Enter CHORUS
Enter CHORUS
Enter FALSTAFF
Enter PISTOL
Enter PISTOL
Enter a MESSENGER
Enter a MESSENGER
Enter musicians
Exeunt HOSTESS, BARDOLPH, and OFFICERS
Exeunt all but the KING and the PRINCE
Re-enter DAVY
SCENE 2.
and GLOUCESTER
Enter BARDOLPH and PAGE
Enter FLUELLEN
Enter FLUELLEN
Enter GLOUCESTER
Enter TRAVERS
Re-enter WARWICK
[Shouts,within, and the trumpets sound]
England and France
Enter CONSTABLE
Enter ERPINGHAM
Enter GRANDPRE
Enter HARCOURT
Enter Morton
Enter PISTOL
Enter PRINCE HENRY
Enter WESTMORELAND
Enter a MESSENGER
Enter the Boy
Enter third DRAWER
Exeunt PRINCE, POINS, PETO, and BARDOLPH
Re-enter BARDOLPH
Re-enter DAVY
Re-enter HASTINGS
Re-enter PRINCE HENRY
Tucket. Enter MONTJOY
Enter ERPINGHAM
Enter WILLIAMS
Re-enter HOSTESS
Re-enter WESTMORELAND
Re-enter WESTMORELAND
and MICHAEL WILLIAMS
the BISHOP OF ELY
Enter MONTJOY
Enter WESTMORELAND
Enter a MESSENGER
Enter an ENGLISH HERALD
Re-enter BARDOLPH
Re-enter SALISBURY
Re-enter WESTMORELAND
Enter PISTOL and HOSTESS
Exeunt CAMBRIDGE, SCROOP, and GREY, guarded
Tucket. Enter MONTJOY
WESTMORELAND, and others
And sword and shield
Enter BARDOLPH, and one with him
Enter FLUELLEN and GOWER
Enter WARWICK and Surrey
Enter the DUKE OF YORK
In bloody field
Re-enter FALSTAFF and the JUSTICES
As bird doth sing on bough.
But thither would I hie.
Enter PISTOL, BARDOLPH, and PAGE
Enter a second MESSENGER
Enter a third MESSENGER
Enter the BASTARD OF ORLEANS
Exeunt all but the KING, KATHERINE, and ALICE
CAMBRIDGE, GREY, and attendants
Enter AMBASSADORS of France
Enter WARWICK and GLOUCESTER
Enter the KING and EXETER
France. Before Orleans
PISTOL, BARDOLPH, and page
So merrily,
Doth win immortal fame.
Enter MACMORRIS and CAPTAIN JAMY
Re-enter FLUELLEN, GOWER following
And ever among so merrily.
Enter HOSTESS and DOLL TEARSHEET
If wishes would prevail with me,
My purpose should not fail with me,
Re-enter LORDS, with EXETER and train
Trumpets sound. Enter the KING, SCROOP,
[Flourish. The KING and his train enter the town]
And lusty lads roam here and there,
And praise God for the merry year;
Do nothing but eat and make good cheer,
Enter LANCASTER, CLARENCE, GLOUCESTER,
Enter the ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY and
Enter the LORD CHIEF JUSTICE and SERVANT
Enter the LORD CHIEF JUSTICE and his men
When flesh is cheap and females dear,
Enter the FRENCH POWER and the ENGLISH LORDS
Alarum. Enter the KING, WARWICK, GLOUCESTER,
EXETER, and others, with prisoners. Flourish
Enter KING HENRY THE FIFTH, attended
Enter PRINCE JOHN OF LANCASTER, WESTMORELAND,
Enter SIR JOHN FALSTAFF, PAGE, and BARDOLPH
Re-enter PRINCE JOHN, the LORD CHIEF JUSTICE,
And a merry heart lives long-a.
And welcome merry Shrove-tide.
Exeunt all but PRINCE JOHN and the LORD CHIEF JUSTICE
Re-enter WARWICK, GLOUCESTER, CLARENCE
Samingo.
and REIGNIER, marching with drum and soldiers
'If that you will France win,
Enter three soldiers: JOHN BATES, ALEXANDER COURT,
Then with Scotland first begin.'
'Tis merry in hall when beards wag an;
A cup of wine that's brisk and fine,
And drink unto the leman mine;
And dub me knight.
Be merry, be merry, my wife has all;
Be merry, be merry.
Do me right,
Drum and colours. Enter the KING and his poor soldiers,
Fill the cup, and let it come,
For women are shrews, both short and tall;
I'll pledge you a mile to th' bottom.
great loss. Re-enter CHARLES, ALENCON, and REIGNIER
Enter the KING and his train, the LORD CHIEF JUSTICE
JOHN with my brothers and sisters, and SIR JOHN with
Knocks go and come; God's vassals drop and die;
Trumpets sound, and the KING and his train pass
all Europe.'
thou usest him- JACK FALSTAFF with my familiars,
Enter PRINCE JOHN OF LANCASTER, WARWICK, LORDS, and others
Enter, behind, PRINCE HENRY and POINS disguised as drawers
Here alarum. They are beaten hack by the English, with
over the stage. After them enter FALSTAFF, SHALLOW,
Sound a flourish. Enter CHARLES THE DAUPHIN, ALENCON,
Thine, by yea and no- which is as much as to say as
Where your Majesty demands that the King of France, having any
his lackey.
it.
knight, of Northumberland.
of Cambridge.
of Masham.
Staines.
and afterwards CARDINAL
'A Talbot! a Talbot!' cried out amain,
'Accommodated!' It comes of accommodo. Very good; a good phrase.
'Gainst all the world will rightfully maintain.
'Gainst him whose wrongs gives edge unto the swords
'Happy am I that have a man so bold
'Harry of England, I am thine.' Which word thou shalt no sooner
'In terram Salicam mulieres ne succedant'-
'Let us make head.' It was your pre-surmise
'No woman shall succeed in Salique land';
'Northumberland, thou ladder by the which
'Si fortune me tormente sperato me contento.'
'The time shall come'- thus did he follow it-
'The time will come that foul sin, gathering head,
'Tis a hooded valour, and when it appears it will bate.
'Tis needful that the most immodest word
'Tis no sinister nor no awkward claim,
'Tis not ten years gone
'Tis not the balm, the sceptre, and the ball,
'Tis positive 'gainst all exceptions, lords,
'Twas I, indeed, thou promised'st to strike,
'Where is the life that late I led?' say they.
'a go, and again would 'a come. I shall ne'er see such a fellow.
'em; that is all.
'you are an honest woman and well thought on, therefore take heed
-marry, good air. Spread, Davy, spread, Davy; well said, Davy.
-well fare thee well.
A base Walloon, to win the Dauphin's grace,
A certain instance that Glendower is dead.
A city on th' inconstant billows dancing;
A cup of wine, sir?
A damned death!
A dozen captains stay at door for you.
A drench for sur-rein'd jades, their barley-broth,
A far more glorious star thy soul will make
A gentleman well bred and of good name,
A gentleman, almost forspent with speed,
A good soft pillow for that good white head
A holy maid hither with me I bring,
A hoop of gold to bind thy brothers in,
A lad of life, an imp of fame;
A largess universal, like the sun,
A little cloth.
A little touch of Harry in the night.
A many of our bodies shall no doubt
A naked subject to the weeping clouds
A name that in my thoughts becomes me best,
A nest of hollow bosoms, which he fills
A night is but small breath and little pause
A ragged and forestall'd remission.
A rotten case abides no handling.
A scaly gauntlet now with joints of steel
A soul so easy as that Englishman's.'
A speedy power to encounter you, my lord,
A testament of noble-ending love.
A third thinks, without expense at all,
A very little little let us do,
A watch-case or a common 'larum-bell?
Abate thy rage, abate thy manly rage;
Abate thy rage, great duke.
About our squares of battle- were enow
According to the weight and worthiness.
According to their firm proposed natures.
Accusing it, I put it on my head,
Acquitted by a true substantial form,
Acting that argument. And now my death
Added to that that am to deliver!
After defunction of King Pharamond,
After my seeming. The tide of blood in me
After th' admired heels of Bolingbroke,
After the taste of much correction.
After this cold considerance, sentence me;
After your thoughts, straight back again to France.     Exit
Against Northumberland and the Archbishop.
Against the French that met them in their bent,
Against the Scot, who will make road upon us
Against the Welsh, himself and Harry Monmouth;
Against the panting sides of his poor jade
Ah, poor heart! he is so shak'd of a burning quotidian tertian
Alack, what mischiefs might he set abroach
Alas, alas! put up your naked weapons, put up your naked weapons.
Alas, poor Harry of England! he longs not for the dawning as we
Alas, she hath from France too long been chas'd!
Alengon, Brabant, Bar, and Burgundy;
Alexander- God knows, and you know- in his rages, and his furies,
All members of our cause, both here and hence,
All out of work and cold for action!
All the occurrences, whatever chanc'd,
All the whole army stood agaz'd on him.
Almost no better than so many French;
Although I did admit it as a motive
Although my body pay the price of it.
Amongst the soldiers this is muttered
An I had but a belly of any indifferency, I were simply the most
An army have I muster'd in my thoughts,
An habitation giddy and unsure
And Crispin Crispian shall ne'er go by,
And Edward Duke of Bar. Of lusty earls,
And God acquit them of their practices!
And God forbid, my dear and faithful lord,
And Harry Monmouth's brawn, the hulk Sir John,
And Holdfast is the only dog, my duck.
And I dare swear you borrow not that face
And I do wish your honours may increase
And I had many living to upbraid
And I my Percy's death ere thou report'st it.
And I repent my fault more than my death;
And I will stoop and humble my intents
And I will take it as a sweet disgrace
And Lord Scales with him, and Lord Hungerford;
And Troiant Greeks? Nay, rather damn them with
And Westmoreland, and Stafford, fled the field;
And Westmoreland. This is the news at full.
And after fight with them?
And all her husbandry doth lie on heaps,
And all is done. Then let the trumpets sound
And all my friends, which thou must make thy friends,
And all my mother came into mine eyes
And all our princes capdv'd by the hand
And all the peers', for surety of our leagues.
And all wide-stretched honours that pertain,
And anything that may not misbecome
And are enforc'd from our most quiet there
And as our vineyards, fallows, meads, and hedges,
And as the thing that's heavy in itself
And as the wretch whose fever-weak'ned joints,
And asking every one for Sir John Falstaff.
And be assur'd you'll find a difference,
And be it death proclaimed through our host
And be, like them, to Percy troublesome.
And being now trimm'd in thine own desires,
And bid the merry bells ring to thine ear
And bid thy ceremony give thee cure!
And bids you be advis'd there's nought in France
And bids you, in the bowels of the Lord,
And bless us with her former qualities.
And bless'd and grac'd indeed more than the King.
And both against the peace of heaven and him
And bring you back, charming the narrow seas
And brother Clarence, and you, brother Gloucester,
And but for ceremony, such a wretch,
And but in purged judgment trusting neither?
And but my going nothing can redeem it.
And by their hands this grace of kings must die-
And by whose power I well might lodge a fear
And calls them brothers, friends, and countrymen.
And changes fill the cup of alteration
And chide the cripple tardy-gaited night
And come against us in full puissance
And consecrate commotion's bitter edge?
And countenanc'd by boys and beggary-
And crowns for convoy put into his purse;
And darkness be the burier of the dead!
And dash themselves to pieces.
And dead almost, my liege, to think you were-
And death's dishonourable victory
And did commit you. If the deed were ill,
And didst thou not kiss me, and bid me fetch the thirty
And do submit me to your Highness' mercy.
And doth enlarge his rising with the blood
And dout them with superfluous courage, ha!
And down goes an before them. Still be kind,
And draw no swords but what are sanctified.
And draw their honours reeking up to heaven,
And drive the English forth the bounds of France.
And drop upon our bare unarmed heads.
And either end in peace- which God so frame!-
And eke out our performance with your mind.             Exit
And everything lies level to our wish.
And everything that seems unnatural.
And faintly through a rusty beaver peeps.
And fearful meeting of their opposite.
And find me worse provided.
And find our griefs heavier than our offences.
And first, Lord Marshal, what say you to it?
And flashing fire will follow.
And flow henceforth in formal majesty.
And follows so the ever-running year
And for achievement offer us his ransom.
And for his safety there I'll best devise.              Exit
And fortify it strongly 'gainst the French;
And found no course of breath within your Majesty,
And friendship shall combine, and brotherhood.
And from the powd'ring tub of infamy
And gallop o'er the field.
And gave me up to tears.
And gentlemen in England now-a-bed
And gentlemen of blood and quality.
And giddy Fortune's furious fickle wheel,
And give it to this fellow. Keep it, fellow;
And give our vineyards to a barbarous people.
And give their fasting horses provender,
And golden times, and happy news of price.
And good from bad find no partition.
And grant it may with thee in true peace live!
And hangs resolv'd correction in the arm
And hardly keeps his men from mutiny,
And have the summary of all our griefs,
And have their provender tied to their mouths,
And he doth sin that doth belie the dead,
And he is bred out of that bloody strain
And he is furnish'd with no certainties
And he may well in fretting spend his gall
And he that wears the crown immortally
And he that will not follow Bourbon now,
And he, the noble image of my youth,
And hear, I think, the very latest counsel
And heir from heir shall hold this quarrel up
And helps to end me. See, sons, what things you are!
And helter-skelter have I rode to thee;
And hides a sword from hilts unto the point
And his whole kingdom into desolation.
And hold their manhoods cheap whiles any speaks
And hollow pamper'd jades of Asia,
And how thou pleasest, God, dispose the day!          Exeunt
And howl'st to find it. What trust is in these times?
And hunger will enforce them to be more eager.
And hush'd with buzzing night-flies to thy slumber,
And in a captive chariot into Rouen
And in th' administration of his law,
And in the calmest and most stillest night,
And in the visitation of the winds,
And in their pale dull mouths the gimmal'd bit
And in thy hateful lungs, yea, in thy maw, perdy;
And it proceeds from policy, not love.
And justly and religiously unfold
And keep no tell-tale to his memory
And knit our powers to the arm of peace.
And labour shall refresh itself with hope,
And laid his love and life under my foot;
And leave your England as dead midnight still,
And let another half stand laughing by,
And let him say to England that we send
And let not Bardolph's vital thread be cut
And let not hemp his windpipe suffocate.
And let our army be discharged too.
And let this world no longer be a stage
And let us choose such limbs of noble counsel,
And let us do it with no show of fear-
And lie pavilion'd in the fields of France.
And liquor likewise will I give to thee,
And lookest to command the Prince and realm.
And lull'd with sound of sweetest melody?
And make a moral of the devil himself.
And make her chronicle as rich with praise
And make me as the poorest vassal is,
And make thee rage.
And make thee rich for doing me such wrong.
And make them skirr away as swift as stones
And make you long become it!
And may our oaths well kept and prosp'rous be!
And might by no suit gain our audience:
And mock your workings in a second body.
And more and less do flock to follow him.
And more than carefully it us concerns
And my kind kinsman- warriors all, adieu!
And my poor soldiers tell me yet ere night
And ne'er throughout the year to church thou go'st,
And neither party loser.
And never live to show th' incredulous world
And never shall have length of life enough
And never shall you see that I will beg
And noble offices thou mayst effect
And nobles bearing banners, there lie dead
And none but women left to wail the dead.
And not a man of them that we shall take
And not less happy, having such a son
And not the King, that doth you injuries.
And not to us, but to thy arm alone,
And now dispatch we toward the court, my lords.
And now my sight fails, and my brain is giddy.
And now thou wouldst eat thy dead vomit up,
And of buxom valour, hath by cruel fate
And of it left his son imperial lord.
And on his more advice we pardon him.
And on it have bestowed more contrite tears
And on to-morrow bid them march away.                 Exeunt
And one against Glendower; perforce a third
And other devils that suggest by treasons
And our air shakes them passing scornfully;
And our dull workings. O, who shall believe
And our supplies live largely in the hope
And overlook their grafters?
And patches will I get unto these cudgell'd scars,
And pause us till these rebels, now afoot,
And plead his love-suit to her gentle heart?
And plodded like a man for working-days;
And preachers to us all, admonishing
And present execution of our wills
And pretty traps to catch the petty thieves.
And publish the occasion of our arms.
And purge th' obstructions which begin to stop
And quickly bring us word of England's fall.          Exeunt
And quickly will return an injury;
And rather choose to hide them in a net
And ripens in the sunshine of his favour,
And rotten times that you shall look upon
And rouse him at the name of Crispian.
And rush'd into the bowels of the battle.
And say 'These wounds I had on Crispian's day.'
And say 'To-morrow is Saint Crispian.'
And see the revolution of the times
And set another up- should we survey
And shall forget the office of our hand
And shall good news be baffled?
And shall our quick blood, spirited with wine,
And she a mourning widow of her nobles,
And sheath'd their swords for lack of argument.
And sheathe for lack of sport. Let us but blow on them,
And silken dalliance in the wardrobe lies;
And since we are o'erset, venture again.
And sit at chiefest stern of public weal.             Exeunt
And so our scene must to the battle fly;
And so success of mischief shall be born,
And so to you, Lord Hastings, and to all.
And so, espous'd to death, with blood he seal'd
And so, with great imagination
And solemnly see him set on to London.
And some about him have too lavishly
And some are yet ungotten and unborn
And something lean to cutpurse of quick hand.
And speaking thick, which nature made his blemish,
And steep my senses in forgetfulness?
And struck me in my very seat of judgment;
And suffer the condition of these times
And summ'd the account of chance before you said
And swear I got them in the Gallia wars.                Exit
And swear here, by the honour of my blood,
And sworn unto the practices of France
And take thou this!' O thoughts of men accurs'd!
And take with you free power to ratify,
And takes away the stomach- such are the rich
And takes him by the beard, kisses the gashes
And teach lavoltas high and swift corantos,
And teach them how to war. And you, good yeomen,
And tell him who hath sent me after him.
And tell the legions 'I can never win
And tell the pleasant Prince this mock of his
And tell thy king I do not seek him now,
And tender preservation of our person,
And that same word even now cries out on us.
And that we are most lofty runaways.
And that young Harry Percy's spur was cold.
And the division of our amity.
And the flesh'd soldier, rough and hard of heart,
And the loud trumpet blowing them together-
And the old folk, Time's doting chronicles,
And the third hour of drowsy morning name.
And their executors, the knavish crows,
And their most reverend heads dash'd to the walls;
And then I will proclaim young Henry king.              Exit
And then I would no other company.
And then imagine me taking your part
And then that Henry Bolingbroke and he,
And then to Calais; and to England then;
And thence to France shall we convey you safe
And there are twenty weak and wearied posts
And there my rendezvous is quite cut off.
And therefore be assur'd, my good Lord Marshal,
And therefore will he wipe his tables clean,
And therefore, living hence, did give ourself
And thereupon I drink unto your Grace.
And thereupon give me your daughter.
And these he masters now. Now he weighs time
And these unseasoned hours perforce must ad
And they did fight with queasiness, constrain'd,
And this same half-fac'd fellow, Shadow- give me this man. He
And those that leave their valiant bones in France,
And thou hast given me most bitter terms.
And thou shalt prove a shelter to thy friends,
And thou wilt have me die assur'd of it.
And thus thy fall hath left a kind of blot
And thus upbraided it: 'The care on thee depending
And tidings do I bring, and lucky joys,
And time hath worn us into slovenry.
And to our purposes he lives no more.
And to the English court assemble now,
And touch'd with choler, hot as gunpowder,
And true obedience, of this madness cur'd,
And turn them out of service. If they do this-
And use it for my haste. Come, come, away!
And waste for churlish winter's tyranny.
And we must bleed for it; of which disease
And we must earn therefore.
And we with sober speed will follow you.
And we'll consign thereto. Will you, fair sister,
And weak beginning lie intreasured.
And wear it for an honour in thy cap
And wear it in my heart. Why, then, be sad;
And well consider of them. Make good speed.        Exit page
And what art thou, thou idol Ceremony?
And what have kings that privates have not too,
And whatsoever cunning fiend it was
And when the mind is quick'ned, out of doubt
And when we see the figure of the house,
And when you find him evenly deriv'd
And whilst a field should be dispatch'd and fought,
And will with all expedience charge on us.
And with his spirits sadly I survive,
And with our surfeiting and wanton hours
And with them scourge the bad revolting stars
And with what danger, near the heart of it.
And with your puissant arm renew their feats.
And would have told him half his Troy was burnt;
And yet I do thee wrong to mind thee of it,
And yet we ventur'd, for the gain propos'd
And you shall find his vanities forespent
And you shall say, indeed, it is the time,
And you withal shall make all Gallia shake.
And you, Lord Archbishop, and you, Lord Mowbray,
And you, Prince Dauphin, with all swift dispatch,
And you, my gentle knight, give me your thoughts.
And your fair show shall suck away their souls,
And your great-uncle's, Edward the Black Prince,
And yours, the noble sinews of our power,
And, Captain, you must needs be friends with him.
And, Princes all, believe me, I beseech you,
And, Princes, look you strongly arm to meet him.
And, as a branch and member of this royalty,
And, as we hear you do reform yourselves,
And, as you are a king, speak in your state
And, bending forward, struck his armed heels
And, by the ground they hide, I judge their number
And, by the necessary form of this,
And, ere they be dismiss'd, let them march by.
And, good my lord, so please you let our trains
And, in the fortune of my lord your son,
And, in your power, soft silencing your son.
And, my most noble friends, I pray you all
And, princes French, and peers, health to you all!
And, were these inward wars once out of hand,
And, when they stand against you, may they fall
And, which is worse, within thy nasty mouth!
And, winking, leapt into destruction.
And, with a feeble grip, says 'Dear my lord,
And- God consigning to my good intents-
Another fall of man. Their faults are open.
Another would fly swift, but wanteth wings;
Any thing in or out of our demands;
Appear before us? We'll yet enlarge that man,
Appear more wise and modest to the world.
Approach me, and thou shalt be as thou wast,
Are at this hour asleep! O sleep, O gentle sleep,
Are brought to the correction of your law.
Are by the shrieve of Yorkshire overthrown.
Are every one a woe, a sore complaint,
Are fifty thousand strong.
Are heavy orisons 'gainst this poor wretch!
Are in three heads: one power against the French,
Are march'd up to my Lord of Lancaster,
Are murd'red for our pains. This bitter taste
Are near at hand. The rest the paper tells. [Gives a letter]
Are now become enamour'd on his grave.
Are thrice themselves. Hence, therefore, thou nice crutch!
Are with his Highness very ordinary.
Array'd in flames, like to the prince of fiends,
Arrest them to the answer of the law;
Art thou aught else but place, degree, and form,
As I before rememb'red, all our state;
As I have done the rest of my misleaders,
As a false favourite doth his prince's name,
As aconitum or rash gunpowder.
As are our wretches fett'red in our prisons;
As black and white, my eye will scarcely see it.
As did the former lions of your blood.
As dogs upon their masters, worrying you.
As far as France. I heard a bird so sing,
As fear may teach us, out of late examples
As fearfully as doth a galled rock
As fish are in a pond. But now the Bishop
As flaws congealed in the spring of day.
As gardeners do with ordure hide those roots
As he is striking, holds his infant up,
As he whose brow with homely biggen bound
As his misdoubts present occasion:
As humorous as winter, and as sudden
As if allegiance in their bosoms sat,
As in good time he may- from Ireland coming,
As in this glorious and well-foughten field
As is the ooze and bottom of the sea
As man and wife, being two, are one in love,
As many arrows loosed several ways
As many fresh streams meet in one salt sea,
As many lines close in the dial's centre;
As matching to his youth and vanity,
As men drink potions; that their weapons only
As might hold sortance with his quality,
As modest stillness and humility;
As never did the clergy at one time
As one man more methinks would share from me
As our conditions shall consist upon,
As pure as sin with baptism.
As self-neglecting.
As send precepts to the Leviathan
As things acquainted and familiar to us;
As those that I am come to tell you of!
As two yoke-devils sworn to either's purpose,
As waters to the sucking of a gulf.
As we are now glad to behold your eyes-
As we his subjects have in wonder found,
As we will ours; and here, between the armies,
As were a war in expectation.
As with the tide swell'd up unto his height,
As yet not come to life, who in their seeds
As yet the lamentation of the French
As you have done 'gainst me. There is my hand.
As, by a lower but loving likelihood,
As, force perforce, the age will pour it in-
As, if God please, they shall- my ransom then
Ascribe we all. When, without stratagem,
At Herod's bloody-hunting slaughtermen.
At pleasure here we lie near Orleans;
At the discovery of most dangerous treason
Athwart the sea. Behold, the English beach
Augment, or alter, as your wisdoms best
Avaunt, you cullions!                 [Driving them forward]
Awake, awake, English nobility!
Away with these disgraceful wailing robes!
Back to our brother of England.
Bar Harry England, that sweeps through our land
Bardolph and Nym had ten times more valour than this roaring
Bardolph, be blithe; Nym, rouse thy vaunting veins;
Bardolph, give the soldiers coats.
Bardolph.
Bardolph. He would not take his band and yours; he liked not the
Bardolph; lead the men away.  [Exeunt all but FALSTAFF]  As I
Bare-headed, sweating, knocking at the taverns,
Baying at his heels. Never fear that.
Be copy now to men of grosser blood,
Be drops of balm to sanctify thy head;
Be happy, he will trouble you no more.
Be here presented. Now we bear the King
Be in their flowing cups freshly rememb'red.
Be it thy course to busy giddy minds
Be like a king, and show my sail of greatness,
Be look'd upon and learnt; which once attain'd,
Be not dismay'd, for succour is at hand.
Be now the father, and propose a son;
Be soon collected, and all things thought upon
Be these the wretches that we play'd at dice for?
Be you contented, wearing now the garland,
Beaumont and Marle, Vaudemont and Lestrake.
Beaumont, Grandpre, Roussi, and Fauconbridge,
Became the accents of the valiant;
Bedford, if thou be slack I'll fight it out.
Before he was what thou wouldst have him be!
Before him through the city. He forbids it,
Before thy hour be ripe? O foolish youth!
Before thy most assured overthrow;
Before we hear him, of some things of weight
Behold the ordnance on their carriages,
Behold yourself so by a son disdain'd;
Behold, as may unworthiness define,
Beholding him, plucks comfort from his looks;
Being bruited once, took fire and heat away
Being free from vainness and self-glorious pride;
Being mounted and both roused in their seats,
Being ordain'd his special governor;
Being sick, have in some measure made me well;
Being so troublesome a bedfellow?
Belonging to his honour; and this man
Beseeching God and you to pardon me.
Besides, they are our outward consciences
Besides, we'll cut the throats of those we have,
Better opinion, better confirmation;
Between his greatness and thy other brethren.
Between the floods of Sala and of Elbe;
Between the grace, the sanctities of heaven,
Between the promise of his greener days
Betwixt the stout Lord Talbot and the French.
Beyond his power to build it; who, half through,
Beyond the river Sala, in the year
Beyond the river we'll encamp ourselves,
Bid them achieve me, and then sell my bones.
Bids them good morrow with a modest smile,
Big Mars seems bankrupt in their beggar'd host,
Blunt, lead him hence; and see you guard him sure.
Bonfires in France forthwith I am to make
Borne with black vapour, doth begin to melt
Borne with th' invisible and creeping wind,
Boy, bristle thy courage up. For Falstaff he is dead,
Brandish your crystal tresses in the sky
Break out into a second course of mischief,
Break up their drowsy grave and newly move
Breasting the lofty surge. O, do but think
Breed, by his sufferance, more of such a kind.
Briefly to this end: we are all diseas'd
Bring him our prisoner.
Bring in to any of your ancestors.
Bring me just notice of the numbers dead
Bring up his powers; but he did long in vain.
Bringing rebellion broached on his sword,
Brothers, you mix your sadness with some fear.
But Exeter hath given the doom of death
But God be thanked for prevention,
But Harry Harry. Yet be sad, good brothers,
But Harry lives that shall convert those tears
But I had not so much of man in me,
But I must go and meet with danger there,
But I will rise there with so full a glory
But Peace puts forth her olive everywhere.
But Priam found the fire ere he his tongue,
But all are banish'd till their conversations
But all's not done- yet keep the French the field.
But as an honour snatch'd with boist'rous hand;
But bear me to that chamber; there I'll lie;
But being awak'd, I do despise my dream.
But could be willing to march on to Calais
But entertain no more of it, good brothers,
But every rub is smoothed on our way.
But fear the main intendment of the Scot,
But five and twenty. O God, thy arm was here!
But for my lord your son-
But for you, rebels- look to taste the due
But freshly looks, and over-bears attaint
But gladly would be better satisfied
But grow, like savages- as soldiers will,
But hark! what new alarum is this same?
But hateful docks, rough thistles, kecksies, burs,
But he that temper'd thee bade thee stand up,
But he'll remember, with advantages,
But health, alack, with youthful wings is flown
But heaviness foreruns the good event.
But his own wringing! What infinite heart's ease
But if it be a sin to covet honour,
But if it did infect my blood with joy,
But if without him we be thought too feeble,
But if your father had been victor there,
But in plain shock and even play of battle,
But in the end, to stop my ear indeed,
But lay down our proportions to defend
But let one spirit of the first-born Cain
But long I will not be Jack out of office.
But many thousand reasons hold me back.
But one ten thousand of those men in England
But our request shall make me let it pass.
But poison'd flattery? O, be sick, great greatness,
But rather show awhile like fearful war
But see thy fault! France hath in thee found out
But shadows and the shows of men, to fight;
But taken and impounded as a stray
But tell the Dauphin I will keep my state,
But that defences, musters, preparations,
But that necessity so bow'd the state
But that our honours must not. What's to say?
But that the Scot on his unfurnish'd kingdom
But that they left me midst my enemies.
But these mine eyes saw him in bloody state,
But this is mere digression from my purpose.
But this lies all within the will of God,
But this, which they produce from Pharamond:
But thou, 'gainst all proportion, didst bring in
But thou, most fine, most honour'd, most renown'd,
But though we think it so, it is no matter.
But to be known and hated. So, like gross terms,
But to establish here a peace indeed,
But we in it shall be remembered-
But we our kingdom's safety must so tender,
But when the blast of war blows in our ears,
But who is substituted against the French
But write her fair words still in foulest letters?
But you misuse the reverence of your place,
But, as I told my Lord of Westmoreland,
But, being moody, give him line and scope
But, by the mass, our hearts are in the trim;
But, ere they come, bid them o'er-read these letters
But, in faith, Kate, the elder I wax, the better I shall appear:
But, like a lackey, from the rise to set
But, my most noble Lord of Westmoreland,
But, till the King come forth, and not till then,
By Jove, I am not covetous for gold,
By a vain, giddy, shallow, humorous youth,
By custom and the ordinance of times,
By guileful fair words peace may be obtain'd.
By his blunt bearing he will keep his word,
By interception which they dream not of.
By law of nature and of nations, 'longs
By magic verses have contriv'd his end?
By most mechanical and dirty hand.
By my consent, we'll even let them alone.
By number into hours of happiness.
By seeming cold or careless of his will;
By the rough torrent of occasion;
By the which marriage the line of Charles the Great
By this day, I know not the phrase; but I will maintain the word
By three and twenty thousand of the French
By what by-paths and indirect crook'd ways
By which his Grace must mete the lives of other,
By which the world's best garden he achieved,
By whom this great assembly is contriv'd,
By whose fell working I was first advanc'd,
Call in the powers, good cousin Westmoreland.
Came like itself, in base and abject routs,
Came not till now to dignify the times,
Came pouring, like the tide into a breach,
Can sleep so soundly as the wretched slave
Cannot defend our own doors from the dog,
Canst thou, O partial sleep, give thy repose
Canst thou, when thou command'st the beggar's knee,
Captain Macmorris, peradventure I shall think you do not use me
Care I for the limb, the thews, the stature, bulk, and big
Cast off his followers; and their memory
Changes the mood; for what in me was purchas'd
Charles Delabreth, High Constable of France;
Charles Delabreth, High Constable of France;
Cheering a rout of rebels with your drum,
Cheerly to sea; the signs of war advance;
Cheshu, I think 'a will plow up all, if there is not better
Chide him for faults, and do it reverently,
Chok'd the respect of likely peril fear'd;
Chrish save me, I will cut off your head.
Christian; and look if the fat villain have not transform'd him
Cleitus, being in his ales and his cups, so also Harry Monmouth,
Clement's Inn, like a man made after supper of a cheese-paring.
Clement's Inn; where I think they will talk of mad Shallow yet.
Collect them all together at my tent:
Com'st thou again for ransom?
Combat with adverse planets in the heavens.
Combine your hearts in one, your realms in one!
Come from the north; and as I came along
Come here himself to question our delay;
Come hither, Harry; sit thou by my bed,
Come hither, boy; ask me this slave in French
Come thou no more for ransom, gentle herald;
Come to one mark, as many ways meet in one town,
Come underneath the yoke of government.
Come we to full points here, and are etceteras nothings?
Come, I know thou lovest me; and at night, when you come into
Come, come.
Come, give's some sack.
Come, go along with me, good Master Gower.
Come, we will put forth, body and goods.
Come, will you hence?                                 Exeunt
Comes sneaking, and so sucks her princely eggs,
Comes to him, where in gore he lay insteeped,
Coming to look on you, thinking you dead-
Command the health of it? No, thou proud dream,
Commend me to the princes in our camp;
Commend my service to my sovereign.'
Comment appelez-vous le col?
Comment appelez-vous les ongles?
Compare with Caesars, and with Cannibals,
Conceives by idleness, and nothing teems
Concurring both in name and quality.
Confirm'd conspiracy with fearful France;
Confound themselves with working. Learn this, Thomas,
Congreeing in a full and natural close,
Conjecture, expectation, and surmise
Conjurers and sorcerers, that, afraid of him,
Consent upon a sure foundation,
Constant in spirit, not swerving with the blood,
Construe the times to their necessities,
Convey them with safe conduct. Fare you well.
Convey'd himself as th' heir to th' Lady Lingare,
Corrupting in it own fertility.
Could not keep quiet in his conscience,
Could out of thee extract one spark of evil
Covering discretion with a coat of folly;
Cowardly fled, not having struck one stroke;
Creating awe and fear in other men?
Creatures that by a rule in nature teach
Cried hate upon him; and all their prayers and love
Criest now 'O earth, yield us that king again,
Cropp'd are the flower-de-luces in your arms;
Crowd us and crush us to this monstrous form
Crowned with faith and constant loyalty!
Cry 'God for Harry, England, and Saint George!'
Curling their monstrous heads, and hanging them
Dale,a most furious knight and valorous enemy. But what of that?
Daughter to Charlemain, who was the son
Daughter to Charles the foresaid Duke of Lorraine;
Davy's day is past.
Davy; let me see- yea, marry, William cook, bid him come hither.
Dear nurse of arts, plenties, and joyful births,
Decoct their cold blood to such valiant heat?
Defective in their natures, grow to wildness;
Defile the locks of your shrill-shrieking daughters;
Defy us to our worst; for, as I am a soldier,
Deliver up the crown; and to take mercy
Delivering o'er to executors pale
Deny it to a king? Then, happy low, lie down!
Depart the chamber, leave us here alone.
Derives from heaven his quarrel and his cause;
Derives itself to me.  [Putting on the crown]  Lo where it sits-
Descend unto the daughter. Gracious lord,
Description cannot suit itself in words
Desire them all to my pavilion.
Desires you let the dukedoms that you claim
Did all the chivalry of England move
Did claim some certain dukedoms in the right
Did feast together, and in two years after
Did he suspire, that light and weightless down
Did march three Frenchmen. Yet forgive me, God,
Did seem defensible. So you left him.
Did speak these words, now prov'd a prophecy?
Did they this Harry. Now in London place him-
Did with the least affection of a welcome
Did, as heir general, being descended
Didst thou beat heaven with blessing Bolingbroke
Discharge your powers unto their several counties,
Discharge yourself of our company, Pistol.
Discolour; and so, Montjoy, fare you well.
Disguise fair nature with hard-favour'd rage;
Dishonour not your mothers; now attest
Divide your happy England into four;
Do all expect that you should rouse yourself,
Do botch and bungle up damnation
Do break the clouds, as did the wives of Jewry
Do but behold yon poor and starved band,
Do crave admittance to your Majesty.
Do my good morrow to them, and anon
Do not, in grant of all demands at large,
Do rush upon us as their hungry prey.
Do the low-rated English play at dice;
Do what you will; your wisdom be your guide.
Do, with his smirch'd complexion, all fell feats
Dogs! cowards! dastards! I would ne'er have fled
Doing the execution and the act
Doll Tearsheet she by name, and her espouse.
Dost thou so hunger for mine empty chair
Doth like a miser spoil his coat with scanting
Doth rise and help Hyperion to his horse;
Doth root upon, while that the coulter rusts
Doth this become your place, your time, and business?
Down, royal state. All you sage counsellors, hence.
Draw the huge bottoms through the furrowed sea,
Drew Priam's curtain in the dead of night
Duke of Gloucester would speak with you.
Dukes; it is no time to discourse. The town is beseech'd, and the
During the time Edward the Third did reign.
Durst not presume to look once in the face.
Dying like men, though buried in your dunghills,
Each battle sees the other's umber'd face;
Each hurries toward his home and sporting-place.
Each several article herein redress'd,
Earl of Northumberland.
East, west, north, south; or like a school broke up,
Eating the air and promise of supply,
Edward the Duke of York, the Earl of Suffolk,
Edward the Third, he bids you then resign
Egregious ransom.
Eight hundred five. Besides, their writers say,
Eight thousand and four hundred; of the which
Either from the King or in the present time,
Either our history shall with full mouth
Either past or not arriv'd to pith and puissance;
Either they must be dieted like mules
Either to quell the Dauphin utterly,
Else ne'er could they hold out so as they do.
Embark his royalty; and his brave fleet
Employ the countenance and grace of heav'n
Enacted wonders with his sword and lance:
Encircled you to hear with reverence
Enclosed were they with their enemies.
End in one purpose, and be all well home
Ending with 'Brother, son, and all, are dead.'
Enforced from the old Assyrian slings;
England all Olivers and Rowlands bred
England ne'er lost a king of so much worth.
England shall double gild his treble guilt;
England shall give him office, honour, might;
England shall repent his folly, see his weakness, and admire our
England, to mope with his fat-brain'd followers so far out of his
English, I love thee, Kate; by which honour I dare not swear thou
English, that shall go to Constantinople and take the Turk by the
English- Canst thou love me?
Enjoys it; but in gross brain little wots
Enlarge the man committed yesterday
Enlink'd to waste and desolation?
Enter our gates; dispose of us and ours;
Ere he take ship for France- and in Southampton.
Ere you with grief had spoke and I had heard
Establish'd then this law: to wit, no female
Even as we are, to equal with the King.
Even by those men that most have done us wrong.
Even in your hearts, there will he rake for it.
Even so our houses and ourselves and children
Even such a man, so faint, so spiritless,
Even to the dullest peasant in his camp-
Even to the utmost grain; that you shall read
Except it be to pray against thy foes.
Except some petty towns of no import.
Except, O Signieur, thou do give to me
Fain would I go to meet the Archbishop,
Faintly besiege us one hour in a month.
Fair daughter, you do draw my spirits from me
Faith, he's very ill.
Falls upon thee in a more fairer sort;
Falstaff.
Familiar in his mouth as household words-
Farewell, my masters; to my task will I;
Fathers that like so many Alexanders
Fear we broadsides? No, let the fiend give fire.
Feeble! Thou wilt be as valiant as the wrathful dove or most
Fetch forth the lazar kite of Cressid's kind,
Figuring the natures of the times deceas'd;
Fills the wide vessel of the universe.
Find him, my lord of Warwick; chide him hither.
Find native graves; upon the which, I trust,
Fire answers fire, and through their paly flames
First let them try themselves. So did your son;
Five hundred poor I have in yearly pay,
Five hundred were but yesterday dubb'd knights.
Flatt'ring himself in project of a power
Fly from the field. Then was that noble Worcester
Fly o'er them, all impatient for their hour.
Foix, Lestrake, Bouciqualt, and Charolois;
Follow Fluellen closely at the heels;
Follow me.                                              Exit
Follow your spirit; and upon this charge
Follow, and see there be no harm between them.
Following the mirror of all Christian kings
Fondly brought here, and foolishly sent hence.
For Doll is in. Pistol speaks nought but truth.
For England his approaches makes as fierce
For God doth know how many, now in health,
For God doth know, so shall the world perceive,
For I am Welsh, you know, good countryman.
For I am on the sudden something ill.
For I am sure, when he shall see our army,
For I can take, and Pistol's cock is up,
For I do know Fluellen valiant,
For Pistol, he hath a killing tongue and a quiet sword; by the
For all my reign hath been but as a scene
For all the country, in a general voice,
For all the soil of the achievement goes
For certainly thou art so near the gulf
For competence of life I will allow you,
For forth he goes and visits all his host;
For from his metal was his party steeled;
For government, though high, and low, and lower,
For he hath found to end one doubt by death
For he hath stol'n a pax, and hanged must 'a be-
For he is footed in this land already.
For he is gracious if he be observ'd.
For he to-day that sheds his blood with me
For hear her but exampled by herself:
For his divisions, as the times do brawl,
For his, it stuck upon him as the sun
For husbands, fathers, and betrothed lovers,
For in his tomb lie my affections;
For in the book of Numbers is it writ,
For it is none but thine.
For living idly here in pomp and ease,
For many of our princes- woe the while!-
For me, by heaven, I bid you be assur'd,
For never two such kingdoms did contend
For none but Samsons and Goliases
For now a time is come to mock at form-
For now sits Expectation in the air,
For oaths are straws, men's faiths are wafer-cakes,
For once the eagle England being in prey,
For our approach shall so much dare the field
For our bad neighbour makes us early stirrers,
For pax of little price.
For peace itself should not so dull a kingdom,
For recordation to my noble husband.
For so appears this fleet majestical,
For some dishonest manners of their life,
For th' other, Sir John- let me see. Simon Shadow!
For that I have laid by my majesty
For that same word 'rebellion' did divide
For the best hope I have. O, do not wish one more!
For the fifth Harry from curb'd license plucks
For the only she; and- pauca, there's enough.
For thee thrice wider than for other men-
For then both parties nobly are subdu'd,
For there is none of you so mean and base
For this contains our general grievances.
For this revolt of thine, methinks, is like
For this the foolish over-careful fathers
For this they have been thoughtful to invest
For this they have engrossed and pil'd up
For those who could speak low and tardily
For thou art fram'd of the firm truth of valour.
For we have now no thought in us but France,
For we no longer are defensible.
For we will hear, note, and believe in heart,
For when his headstrong riot hath no curb,
For which I do commit into your hand
For which we have in head assembled them?
For who is he whose chin is but enrich'd
For yet a many of your horsemen peer
For you shall read that my great-grandfather
For your great seats now quit you of great shames.
For your own reasons turn into your bosoms
For yours, the God of heaven brighten it!
For, by my faith, it very well becomes you.
For, hearing this, I must perforce compound
For, in a theme so bloody-fac'd as this,
For, lo! within a ken our army lies-
For, look you, th' athversary- you may discuss unto the Duke,
For, my good liege, she is so idly king'd,
Forage in blood of French nobility.
Foretelling this same time's condition
Foretells the nature of a tragic volume.
Fortune is blind; and she is painted also with a wheel, to
Fought on the day of Crispin Crispianus.
Four hundred twenty-six; and Charles the Great
Four of their lords I'll change for one of ours.
France being ours, we'll bend it to our awe,
France et vous etes mienne. It is as easy for me, Kate, to
France is revolted from the English quite,
France, Kate, but in loving me you should love the friend of
France; for I love France so well that I will not part with a
Francis.
Free from gross passion or of mirth or anger,
Freely to render what we have in charge;
French council; and they should sooner persuade Henry of England
French heart, I will be glad to hear you confess it brokenly with
French maid that stands in my way.
French quarrels enow, if you could tell how to reckon.
Fret fetlock deep in gore, and with wild rage
From camp to camp, through the foul womb of night,
From every region, apes of idleness.
From glist'ring semblances of piety;
From helmet to the spur all blood he was.
From him, the native and true challenger.
From his most fam'd of famous ancestors,
From off these fields, where, wretches, their poor bodies
From the best-temper'd courage in his troops;
From this bare wither'd trunk. Upon thy sight
From this day to the ending of the world,
From whence with life he never more sprung up.
From whom you claim; invoke his warlike spirit,
Full fifteen hundred, besides common men.
Gadshill. You knew I was at your back, and spoke it on purpose to
Galling the gleaned land with hot assays,
Gan vail his stomach and did grace the shame
Garnish'd and deck'd in modest complement,
Gasping for life under great Bolingbroke;
Gave him defiance. But which of you was by-
Gave thee no instance why thou shouldst do treason,
Get posts and letters, and make friends with speed-
Gets him to rest, cramm'd with distressful bread;
Girdling with grievous siege castles and towns;
Give dreadful note of preparation.
Give entertainment to the might of it,
Give even way unto my rough affairs;
Give me my steeled coat; I'll fight for France.
Give me my sword and cloak. Falstaff, good night.
Give me some sack; and, sweetheart, lie thou there.
Give me thy fist, thy fore-foot to me give;
Give me thy hand.
Give that which gave thee life unto the worms.
Give the word through.                                Exeunt
Give then such instances of loss?
Give you advancement. Be it your charge, my lord,
Gives o'er and leaves his part-created cost
Giving full trophy, signal, and ostent,
Gloucestershire; and, when you come to court, stand my good lord,
Go down upon him, you have power enough,
Go forth and fetch their conqu'ring Caesar in;
Go in with me; and counsel every man
Go to.
Go with my brothers to my lords of England;
Go with the princes or stay here with us?
Go you and enter Harfleur; there remain,
Go you with me, uncle of Exeter.                      Exeunt
Go, bid thy master well advise himself.
Go, clear thy crystals. Yoke-fellows in arms,
Go, my dread lord, to your great-grandsire's tomb,
Go, pluck him by the elbow; I must speak with him.
Go, therefore, tell thy master here I am;
God bye you, Princes all; I'll to my charge.
God pless you, Aunchient Pistol! you scurvy, lousy knave, God
God pless your Majesty!
God put it in thy mind to take it hence,
God send us peace! At your return, visit our house; let our old
God shorten Harry's happy life one day.               Exeunt
God witness with me, when I here came in
God's light, with two points on your shoulder? Much!
God's peace! I would not lose so great an honour
God's will! I pray thee, wish not one man more.
God, and not we, hath safely fought to-day.
Good God! why should they mock poor fellows thus?
Good Master Snare, let him not scape. 'A comes continuantly to
Good argument, I hope, we will not fly-
Good bawcock, bate thy rage. Use lenity, sweet chuck.
Good day to you, gentle Lord Archbishop;
Good morrow, brother Bedford. God Almighty!
Good morrow, old Sir Thomas Erpingham:
Grandpre and Roussi, Fauconbridge and Foix,
Grapple your minds to sternage of this navy
Great Kings of France and England! That I have labour'd
Great Master of France, the brave Sir Guichard Dolphin;
Grey of Northumberland, this same is yours.
Grow stronger for the breaking.
Guarded with grandsires, babies, and old women,
Guienne, Champagne, Rheims, Orleans,
Had found some months asleep, and leapt them over.
Had met ill luck?
Had my sweet Harry had but half their numbers,
Had nobles richer and more loyal subjects,
Had not been here to dress the ugly form
Had the fore-hand and vantage of a king.
Had three times slain th' appearance of the King,
Had twenty years been made. This is a stern
Haeres Franciae.
Hal'd thither
Haply a woman's voice may do some good,
Hark you, the King is coming; and I must speak with him from the
Harry the Fifth is crown'd. Up, vanity:
Harry the Fifth's the man. I speak the truth.
Harry the King, Bedford and Exeter,
Hast eat thy bearer up.' Thus, my most royal liege,
Hath blown that vice in me; I must repent.
Hath but a losing office, and his tongue
Hath by instinct knowledge from others' eyes
Hath fed upon the body of my father;
Hath got the voice in hell for excellence;
Hath he that buildeth on the vulgar heart.
Hath left a witness'd usurpation.
Hath left me open to all injuries.
Hath proudly flow'd in vanity till now.
Hath put us in these ill-beseeming arms;
Hath shook and trembled at th' ill neighbourhood.
Hath the late overthrow wrought this offence?
Hath turn'd his balls to gun-stones, and his soul
Hath wrought the mure that should confine it in
Hath, for a few light crowns, lightly conspir'd,
Have broke their sleep with thoughts,
Have brought ourselves into a burning fever,
Have but their stings and teeth newly ta'en out;
Have here up-swarm'd them.
Have in these parts from morn till even fought,
Have lost their quality; and that this day
Have lost, or do not learn for want of time,
Have of their puissance made a little taste.
Have since miscarried under Bolingbroke.
Have steep'd their galls in honey, and do serve you
Have talk'd of Monmouth's grave.
Have you a ruffian that will swear, drink, dance,
Have you read o'er the letters that I sent you?
Have, for the gilt of France- O guilt indeed!-
Having been well, that would have made me sick,
Having full scarce six thousand in his troop,
He ask'd the way to Chester; and of him
He cannot so precisely weed this land
He cries aloud 'Tarry, my cousin Suffolk.
He doth unfasten so and shake a friend.
He fighteth as one weary of his life.
He had no legs that practis'd not his gait;
He hath a tear for pity and a hand
He hath intent his wonted followers
He is not here.
He is retir'd, to ripe his growing fortunes,
He leaves his back unarm'd, the French and Welsh
He loves thee, and thou dost neglect him, Thomas.
He might return to vasty Tartar back,
He ne'er had borne it out of Coventry;
He ne'er lift up his hand but conquered.
He saw me, and yielded; that I may justly say with the hook-nos'd
He seem'd in running to devour the way,
He sends you this most memorable line,       [Gives a paper]
He smil'd me in the face, raught me his hand,
He that but fears the thing he would not know
He that outlives this day, and comes safe home,
He that shall live this day, and see old age,
He therefore sends you, meeter for your spirit,
He threw his wounded arm and kiss'd his lips;
He told me that rebellion had bad luck,
He wanted pikes to set before his archers;
He was so suff'red; so came I a widow;
He was some hilding fellow that had stol'n
He was the mark and glass, copy and book,
He wills you, in the name of God Almighty,
He'll call you to so hot an answer of it
He'll drop his heart into the sink of fear,
He's follow'd both with body and with mind;
He, being in the vaward plac'd behind
Health and fair time of day; joy and good wishes
Health to my lord and gentle cousin, Mowbray.
Hear no more of you. This the Dauphin speaks.
Hear the shrill whistle which doth order give
Hear your own dignity so much profan'd,
Heave him away upon your winged thoughts
Hector of Troy, worth five of Agamemnon, and ten times better
Hence grew the general wreck and massacre.
Hence! Avaunt!
Hence! I am qualmish at the smell of leek.
Henry Lord Scroop of Masham, and the third,
Henry is dead and never shall revive.
Henry the Sixth, in infant bands crown'd king
Her sceptre so fantastically borne
Her vine, the merry cheerer of the heart,
Here at more leisure may your Highness read,
Here come I from our princely general
Here comes our general.
Here doth he wish his person, with such powers
Here had the conquest fully been seal'd up
Here is return'd my Lord of Westmoreland.
Here was a royal fellowship of death!
Here, there, and everywhere, enrag'd he slew
Hermes.
High dukes, great princes, barons, lords, and knights,
Him I forgive my death that killeth me,
His arms spread wider than a dragon's wings;
His bleeding sword 'twixt England and fair France.
His brandish'd sword did blind men with his beams;
His bruised helmet and his bended sword
His crown shall be the ransom of my friend;
His daughter first; and then in sequel, all,
His fairest daughter is contaminated.
His foes are so enrooted with his friends
His heart is fracted and corroborate.
His jest will savour but of shallow wit,
His liberal eye doth give to every one,
His own life hung upon the staff he threw-
His present and your pains we thank you for.
His princes and his peers to servitude,
His soldiers sick and famish'd in their march;
His soldiers, spying his undaunted spirit,
His sovereign's life to death and treachery!
His sparkling eyes, replete with wrathful fire,
His subjects to oppression and contempt,
His temper, therefore, must be well observ'd.
His thread of life had not so soon decay'd.
Hold hard the breath, and bend up every spirit
Hold hook and line, say I. Down, down, dogs! down, faitors! Have
Hold, there's a tester for thee.
Holding due course to Harfleur. Follow, follow!
Honour is cudgell'd. Well, bawd I'll turn,
Hope gives not so much warrant, as despair
How I came by the crown, O God, forgive;
How London doth pour out her citizens!
How a score of ewes now?
How able such a work to undergo-
How chance thou art not with the Prince thy brother?
How cold it struck my heart! If I do feign,
How deep you were within the books of God?
How doth the King?
How doth the good knight? May I ask how my lady his wife doth?
How dread an army hath enrounded him;
How far forth you do like their articles.
How foul it is; what rank diseases grow,
How he comes o'er us with our wilder days,
How ill white hairs become a fool and jester!
How many nobles then should hold their places
How many thousands of my poorest subjects
How many would the peaceful city quit
How might a prince of my great hopes forget
How modest in exception, and withal
How now! What's the matter?
How now, Bardolph!
How now, Pistol?
How quickly nature falls into revolt
How shall we then behold their natural tears?
How terrible in constant resolution,
How troublesome it sat upon my head:
How well supplied with noble counsellors,
How you awake our sleeping sword of war-
How, in our means, we should advance ourselves
Howbeit they would hold up this Salique law
Hugh Capet also, who usurp'd the crown
Hundreds he sent to hell, and none durst stand him;
I Richard's body have interred new,
I am a king that find thee; and I know
I am left out; for me nothing remains.
I am not here against your father's peace;
I am the most offending soul alive.
I am the sorrier; would 'twere otherwise.
I am troubled withal.
I am yet come to town. There's for your silence.
I and my bosom must debate awhile,
I arrest thee of high treason, by the name of Henry Lord Scroop
I arrest thee of high treason, by the name of Thomas Grey,
I come to thee for charitable licence,
I cut them off; and had a purpose now
I did demand what news from Shrewsbury.
I did never know so full a voice issue from so empty a heart; but
I did present him with the Paris balls.
I do arrest thee, traitor, of high treason;
I do retort the 'solus' in thy bowels;
I gave bold way to my authority
I had forestall'd this dear and deep rebuke
I had had to have made new liveries, I would have bestowed the
I have bestow'd to breed this present peace,
I have in equal balance justly weigh'd
I have long dreamt of such a kind of man,
I have no certain notice.
I have, and I will hold, the quondam Quickly
I hear for certain, and dare speak the truth:
I hear the King my father is sore sick.
I hope you'll come to supper. you'll pay me all together?
I humbly pray them to admit th' excuse
I kiss his dirty shoe, and from heart-string
I know it will please them. Hie thee, Captain.
I know not if the day be ours or no;
I know the young King is sick for me. Let us take any man's
I know thy errand, I will go with thee;
I love the lovely bully. What is thy name?
I make my quarrel in particular.
I met and overtook a dozen captains,
I met this crown; and I myself know well
I muse you make so slight a question.
I must acquaint you that I have receiv'd
I must inform you of a dismal fight
I promis'd you redress of these same grievances
I saw him down; thrice up again, and fighting;
I say, if damn'd commotion so appear'd
I see a strange confession in thine eye;
I see you stand like greyhounds in the slips,
I shall ever see thee again or no, there is nobody cares.
I should not die but in Jerusalem;
I should rejoice now at this happy news;
I spake unto this crown as having sense,
I speak of Africa and golden joys.
I stand here for him. What to him from England?
I stay too long by thee, I weary thee.
I swear-
I take not on me here as a physician;
I think we are so a body strong enough,
I thought upon one pair of English legs
I visit Master Robert Shallow, Esquire. I have him already
I will be so bold as to wear it in my cap till I see him once
I will change it.
I will not leave the half-achieved Harfleur
I will perform with a most Christian care.
I will resolve for Scotland. There am I,
I will the banner from a trumpet take,
I would not take a knighthood for my fortune.
I'll be before thee.
I'll be in these tirrits and frights. So; murder, I warrant now.
I'll be your father and your brother too;
I'll give my barony. Never talk of it.
I'll hale the Dauphin headlong from his throne;
I'll live by Nym and Nym shall live by me.
I'll tickle your catastrophe.
I'll to the King my master that is dead,
I, to comfort him, bid him 'a should not think of God; I hop'd
Iceland!
Idly suppos'd the founder of this law;
If Henry were recall'd to life again,
If I begin the batt'ry once again,
If I demand, before this royal view,
If Sir John Fastolfe had not play'd the coward.
If any order might be thought upon.
If any rebel or vain spirit of mine
If for thy ransom thou wilt now compound,
If hell and treason hold their promises,
If little faults proceeding on distemper
If my young lord your son have not the day,
If not- why, in a moment look to see
If that same demon that hath gull'd thee thus
If that the soldier strike him, as I judge
If they miscarry, theirs shall second them;
If they will fight with us, bid them come down
If they'll do neither, we will come to them
If thou would have such a one, take me; and take me, take a
If truth and upright innocency fail me,
If we are mark'd to die, we are enow
If we do now make our atonement well,
If we may pass, we will; if we be hind'red,
If we no more meet till we meet in heaven,
If we, with thrice such powers left at home,
If your pure maidens fall into the hand
Ill-favouredly become the morning field;
Impatient of his fit, breaks like a fire
Imploring pardon.
In England the most valiant gentleman.
In aid whereof we of the spiritualty
In answer of which claim, the Prince our master
In blood of princes; and their wounded steeds
In cases of defence 'tis best to weigh
In cradle of the rude imperious surge,
In deeds dishonourable? You have ta'en up,
In diet, in affections of delight,
In disadvantage, to abide a field
In drops of crimson blood.
In equal rank with the best govern'd nation;
In every branch truly demonstrative;
In few, his death- whose spirit lent a fire
In fewer offices, or at least desist
In forms imaginary, th'unguided days
In goodly form comes on the enemy;
In his true, native, and most proper shape,
In liberty of bloody hand shall range
In life so lifeless as it shows itself.
In little room confining mighty men,
In loathsome beds, and leav'st the kingly couch
In military rules, humours of blood,
In motion of no less celerity
In peace there's nothing so becomes a man
In poison there is physic; and these news,
In second accent of his ordinance.
In shadow of such greatness! With you, Lord Bishop,
In sight of both our battles we may meet;
In that Jerusalem shall Harry die.                    Exeunt
In that nook-shotten isle of Albion.
In the dead carrion.
In the grey vault of heaven; and by his light
In the quick forge and working-house of thought,
In their sweet bosoms, that never war advance
In three divided; and his coffers sound
In thunder and in earthquake, like a Jove,
In very ample virtue of his father,
In which you, father, shall have foremost hand.
In your fair minds let this acceptance take.            Exit
In your own losses, if he stay in France.
Indeed the instant action, a cause on foot-
Ingrateful, savage, and inhuman creature?
Instead of gold, we'll offer up our arms,
Instead whereof sharp stakes pluck'd out of hedges
Into one giant arm, it shall not force
Into some other chamber. Softly, pray.                Exeunt
Into the hands of justice.' You did commit me;
Into the harsh and boist'rous tongue of war;
Into the sea; and other times to see
Investing lank-lean cheeks and war-worn coats
Invites the King of England's stay at home;
Is all too heavy to admit much talk.
Is apter than thy tongue to tell thy errand.
Is at this day in Germany call'd Meisen.
Is he so hasty that he doth suppose
Is held from falling with so weak a wind
Is in base durance and contagious prison;
Is in the very May-morn of his youth,
Is not their climate foggy, raw, and dull;
Is not this just? For I shall sutler be
Is now transported, gentles, to Southampton;
Is overspread with them; therefore my grief
Is prisoner to your son. O, such a day,
Is tears and heavy sorrows of the blood
Is that the King hath won, and hath sent out
Is't not so?
Issue to me; that the contending kingdoms
It fits us, then, to be as provident
It hath been prophesied to me many years,
It is against my will; for I desire
It is even so. Who hath not heard it spoken
It is most meet we arm us 'gainst the foe;
It is the soldier's: I, by bargain, should
It sendeth forth to skirmish. One to ten!
It shall appear that your demands are just,
It was excess of wine that set him on;
It was young Hotspur's case at Shrewsbury.
It yearns me not if men my garments wear;
Japhet. But the letter:  [Reads]  'Sir John Falstaff, knight, to
Jaques Chatillon, Rambures, Vaudemont,
Jaques of Chatillon, Admiral of France;
John Doit of Staffordshire, and black George Barnes, and Francis
John Duke of Alencon; Antony Duke of Brabant,
John Duke of Bourbon, and Lord Bouciqualt;
John Falstaff- a tall gentleman, by heaven, and a most gallant
John, we have. Our watchword was 'Hem, boys!' Come, let's to
John.
John.
John. By the mass, I have drunk too much sack at supper. A good
John; very well said.
John?
Johns; and, putting off his hat, said 'I will now take my leave
Join'd with an enemy proclaim'd, and from his coffers
Kate, my wooing is fit for thy understanding: I am glad thou
Katherine his daughter, and with her to dowry
Keep the wild flood confin'd! Let order die!
Kill'd by the hand of Douglas; young Prince John,
Killing in relapse of mortality.
Killing their fruit with frowns? Can sodden water,
Killing them twice. O, give us leave, great King,
King Cerberus; and let the welkin roar.
King Henry
King Henry the Fifth, too famous to live long!
King Lewis his satisfaction, all appear
King Pepin's title, and Hugh Capet's claim,
King Pepin, which deposed Childeric,
King Richard might create a perfect guess
King do you grace. I will leer upon him, as 'a comes by; and do
King himself will be a clipper.
King's laws in now the King's quarrel. Where they feared the
King's tent; wherefore the King most worthily hath caus'd every
King's? Ah, thou honey-seed rogue! thou art a honey-seed; a
Knew that we ventured on such dangerous seas
Larding the plain; and by his bloody side,
Late did he shine upon the English side;
Latin, Praeclarissimus filius noster Henricus, Rex Angliae et
Lean on your health; the which, if you give o'er
Lean raw-bon'd rascals! Who would e'er suppose
Leave gormandizing; know the grave doth gape
Leaving their earthly parts to choke your clime,
Leaving them but the shales and husks of men.
Led by th' impartial conduct of my soul;
Led on by bloody youth, guarded with rags,
Left by the fatal and neglected English
Lend me thy cloak, Sir Thomas. Brothers both,
Lend to this weight such lightness with their fear
Lest rest and lying still might make them look
Let God for ever keep it from my head,
Let King Cophetua know the truth thereof.
Let all the tears that should bedew my hearse
Let gallows gape for dog; let man go free,
Let heaven kiss earth! Now let not Nature's hand
Let him be punish'd, sovereign, lest example
Let him cry 'Praise and glory on his head!'
Let him depart; his passport shall be made,
Let him go hence and, with his cap in hand
Let him greet England with our sharp defiance.
Let it pry through the portage of the head
Let life be short, else shame will be too long.       Exeunt
Let me but bear your love, I'll bear your cares.
Let me no more from this obedience rise,
Let me speak proudly: tell the Constable
Let not sloth dim your honours, new-begot.
Let senses rule. The word is 'Pitch and Pay.'
Let that one article rank with the rest;
Let there be sung 'Non nobis' and 'Te Deum';
Let us be worried, and our nation lose
Let us die in honour: once more back again;
Let us not hang like roping icicles
Let us not live in France; let us quit an,
Let us on heaps go offer up our lives.
Let us sway on and face them in the field.
Let us to France, like horse-leeches, my boys,
Let's drink together friendly and embrace,
Let's to the altar. Heralds, wait on us.
Lie drown'd and soak'd in mercenary blood;
Lies foul with chaw'd grass, still and motionless;
Like Turkish mute, shall have a tongueless mouth,
Like a base pander, hold the chamber-door
Like a rich armour worn in heat of day
Like a strange tongue, wherein, to gain the language,
Like captives bound to a triumphant car.
Like little body with a mighty heart,
Like music.
Like one that draws the model of a house
Like prisoners wildly overgrown with hair,
Like sacrifices, by their watchful fires
Like strengthless hinges, buckle under life,
Like the brass cannon: let the brow o'erwhelm it
Like to the senators of th' antique Rome,
Like youthful steers unyok'd, they take their courses
Linger your patience on, and we'll digest
Lives so in hope, as in an early spring
Lo where he comes. Come hither to me, Harry.
Lo, here comes Sir John.
Lob down their heads, dropping the hides and hips,
London.
London. Now the Lord bless that sweet face of thine. O Jesu, are
London?
Long guard it yours!  [Kneeling]  If I affect it more
Look back into your mighty ancestors.
Look here's more news.
Look to my chattles and my moveables;
Lord John of Lancaster.
Losing both beauty and utility.
Lucifier and Belzebub himself, it is necessary, look your Grace,
Macedon; and there is also moreover a river at Monmouth; it is
Majesty know to this hour is an honourable badge of the service;
Majesty, and your great-uncle Edward the Plack Prince of Wales,
Majesty, in my conscience.
Make boot upon the summer's velvet buds,
Make claim and title to the crown of France.
Make less thy body hence, and more thy grace;
Make mountains level, and the continent,
Making defeat on the fun power of France,
Mangle the work of nature, and deface
Mangling by starts the full course of their glory.
March by us, that we may peruse the men
March to the bridge, it now draws toward night;
Mark then abounding valour in our English,
Marry, there is another indictment upon thee for suffering flesh
Master Page, good Master Page, sit. Proface! What you want in
Master Shallow, I would humour his men with the imputation of
Master Shallow.
Master Silence, I will not use many words with you: Fare you
Master Smooth's the silkman. I pray you, since my exion is
Master Snare; do me, do me, do me your offices.
Master Surecard, as I think?
May cease their hatred; and this dear conjunction
May haply purchase him a box o' th' ear.
May hold up head without Northumberland?
May it be possible that foreign hire
May make a peaceful and a sweet retire
May offer, but not hold.
May this be wash'd in Lethe and forgotten?
May waste the memory of the former days.
Meet for rebellion and such acts as yours.
Minding true things by what their mock'ries be.         Exit
Mingled with venom of suggestion-
Mistress Ursula, whom I have weekly sworn to marry since I
Mock mothers from their sons, mock castles down;
Monmouth.
More dazzled and drove back his enemies
More feathers to our wings; for, God before,
More likely to fall in than to get o'er;
More sharper than your swords, hie to the field:
More than God or religious churchmen may.
More than he haply may retail from me.
More than that being which was like to be?
More than three hours the fight continued;
More truly now may this be verified;
More would I, but my lungs are wasted so
Mort Dieu, ma vie! if they march along
Most of the rest slaughter'd or took likewise.
Most shallowly did you these arms commence,
Most spend their mouths when what they seem to threaten
Most worthy brother England; fairly met!
Mowbray, the Bishop Scroop, Hastings, and all,
Much smaller than the smallest of his thoughts;
Must glove this hand; and hence, thou sickly coif!
Must kings neglect that private men enjoy!
Must lie and fester.
Must take up us. So is the unfirm King
My Lord Northumberland will soon be cool'd.
My Lord of Burgundy, we'll take your oath,
My Lord of Cambridge, and my kind Lord of Masham,
My Lord of Westmoreland, and uncle Exeter,
My Lord of York, it better show'd with you
My army but a weak and sickly guard;
My cousin Bolingbroke ascends my throne'-
My cousin Westmoreland? No, my fair cousin;
My dear Lord Gloucester, and my good Lord Exeter,
My due from thee is this imperial crown,
My father from the breast of Bolingbroke,
My father is gone wild into his grave,
My father made in compassing the crown!
My father's purposes have been mistook;
My fault, but not my body, pardon, sovereign.
My friends and brethren in these great affairs,
My gain of it by their assistances;
My judgment is we should not step too far
My learned lord, we pray you to proceed,
My lord your son had only but the corpse,
My lord, these griefs shall be with speed redress'd;
My numbers lessen'd; and those few I have
My people are with sickness much enfeebled;
My person, or my liege's sovereignty.
My ransom is this frail and worthless trunk;
My rightful hand in a well-hallow'd cause.
My sleep my death?
My soul shall thine keep company to heaven;
My voice shall sound as you do prompt mine ear;
My worldly business makes a period.
Nature's soft nurse, how have I frightened thee,
Nay, an 'a do nothing but speak nothing, 'a shall be nothing
Nay, more, to spurn at your most royal image,
Need not be dreaded.
Never sees horrid night, the child of hell;
Never so few, and never yet more need.                Exeunt
Never went with his forces into France
Never, O never, do his ghost the wrong
New-dated letters from Northumberland;
News have I that my Nell is dead i' th' spital
No king of England, if not king of France!
No leisure had he to enrank his men;
No prince nor peer shall have just cause to say,
No, faith, my coz, wish not a man from England.
No, not all these, thrice gorgeous ceremony,
No, with no more than if we heard that England
No; to the spital go,
None do you like but an effeminate prince,
None else of name; and of all other men
Nor as we are, we say, we will not shun it.
Nor care I who doth feed upon my cost;
Nor did the French possess the Salique land
Nor do I as an enemy to peace
Nor doth he dedicate one jot of colour
Nor from the dust of old oblivion rak'd,
Nor leave not one behind that doth not wish
Nor lose the good advantage of his grace
Nor men nor money hath he to make war.
Nor shall my Nell keep lodgers.
Not Amurath an Amurath succeeds,
Not all these, laid in bed majestical,
Not he which says the dead is not alive.
Not measuring what use we made of them.
Not to break peace, or any branch of it,
Not to come near our person by ten mile.
Not working with the eye without the ear,
Not worshipp'd with a waxen epitaph.
Nothing but odds with England. To that end,
Now are we well prepar'd to know the pleasure
Now are we well resolv'd; and, by God's help
Now bind my brows with iron; and approach
Now by this hand, I swear I scorn the term;
Now call we our high court of parliament;
Now doth it turn and ebb back to the sea,
Now for the honour of the forlorn French!
Now forth, Lord Constable and Princes all,
Now set the teeth and stretch the nostril wide;
Now thrive the armourers, and honour's thought
Now we are victors, upon us he smiles.
Now where is he that will not stay so long
Now, Falstaff, where have you been all this while?
Now, cousin, wherefore stands our army still?
Now, lords, for France; the enterprise whereof
Now, my Lord Constable!
Now, neighbour confines, purge you of your scum.
Nym.
O Ceremony, show me but thy worth!
O England! model to thy inward greatness,
O Signieur Dew, thou diest on point of fox,
O hound of Crete, think'st thou my spouse to get?
O me! come near me now I am much ill.
O mechante fortune! Do not run away.
O miracle of men!- him did you leave-
O my poor kingdom, sick with civil blows!
O noble English, that could entertain
O polish'd perturbation! golden care!
O that the living Harry had the temper
O thou dull god, why liest thou with the vile
O thou fond many, with what loud applause
O'er France and all her almost kingly dukedoms,
O'erblows the filthy and contagious clouds
O'erglanced the articles; pleaseth your Grace
O'erhang and jutty his confounded base,
O, how hast thou with jealousy infected
O, let me in my present wildness die,
O, not to-day, think not upon the fault
O, thou wilt be a wilderness again.
O, when the King did throw his warder down-
O, whither shall we fly from this reproach?
O, with what wings shall his affections fly
Obedience; for so work the honey bees,
Of Blithild, which was daughter to King Clothair,
Of Brabant and of Orleans, shall make forth,
Of Charles the Duke of Lorraine, sole heir male
Of Charles the Great. Also King Lewis the Tenth,
Of England's coat one half is cut away.
Of France and England, did this king succeed;
Of France and England, whose very shores look pale
Of Hotspur, Coldspur? that rebellion
Of aids incertain, should not be admitted.
Of all your dear offences. Bear them hence.
Of base and bloody insurrection
Of capital treason I attach you both.
Of dainty and such picking grievances;
Of every fool, whose sense no more can feel
Of every minute's instance, present now,
Of fair King Richard, scrap'd from Pomfret stones;
Of forg'd rebellion with a seal divine,
Of great Northumberland, whose bosom burns
Of he, the worst of these three gentlemen!
Of heady murder, spoil, and villainy.
Of hot and forcing violation?
Of knights, esquires, and gallant gentlemen,
Of loss, of slaughter, and discomfiture:
Of malady of France;
Of mediation, after I am dead,
Of mortal griefs than do thy worshippers?
Of old I know them; rather with their teeth
Of other lords and barons, knights and squires,
Of our fair cousin Dauphin; for we hear
Of our restored love and amity.
Of parents good, of fist most valiant.
Of seeming sorrow- it is sure your own.
Of that black name, Edward, Black Prince of Wales;
Of that victorious stock; and let us fear
Of the true line and stock of Charles the Great,
Of their dead bodies!
Of this good day and of this gracious meeting
Of this most dreadful preparation,
Of those that turn'd their backs, and in his flight,
Of time, of numbers, and due course of things,
Of what a monarchy you are the head.
Of what conditions we shall stand upon?
Of what your reverence shall incite us to.
Of wounds and scars, and that his forward spirit
Of your great predecessor, King Edward the Third.
Offend you, and obey you, as I did.
Offer'st me brass?
Old I do wax; and from my weary limbs
Old men forget; yet all shall be forgot,
On Tuesday last to listen after news.
On bloody courses, the rude scene may end
On both our parts. Call yonder fellow hither.
On late offenders, that he now doth lack
On one part and on th' other? Take it, God,
On the poor souls for whom this hungry war
On whom, as in despite, the sun looks pale,
One hundred twenty-six; added to these,
One time or other break some gallows' back.
One would have ling'ring wars, with little cost;
One, Richard Earl of Cambridge, and the second,
Only compound me with forgotten dust;
Only we want a little personal strength;
Open as day for melting charity;
Opens his vasty jaws; and on your head
Or I will fetch thy rim out at thy throat
Or art thou base, common, and popular?
Or break it all to pieces; or there we'll sit,
Or bring him in obedience to your yoke.
Or close the wall up with our English dead.
Or if there were, it not belongs to you.
Or it will seek me in another place,
Or lay these bones in an unworthy urn,
Or mangled shalt thou be by this my sword.
Or nicely charge your understanding soul
Or piteous they will look, like drowned mice.
Or shall we sparingly show you far of
Or shall we think the subtle-witted French
Or should or should not bar us in our claim;
Or swell my thoughts to any strain of pride;
Or to the place of diff'rence call the swords
Or void the field; they do offend our sight.
Or what hath this bold enterprise brought forth
Or, guilty in defence, be thus destroy'd?
Or, like to men proud of destruction,
Ordained is to raise this tedious siege
Other, less fine in carat, is more precious,
Others like merchants venture trade abroad;
Others like soldiers, armed in their stings,
Otherwhiles the famish'd English, like pale ghosts,
Our armour all as strong, our cause the best;
Our battle is more full of names than yours,
Our bending author hath pursu'd the story,
Our children, and our sins, lay on the King!
Our coronation done, we will accite,
Our debts, our careful wives,
Our fertile France, put up her lovely visage?
Our gayness and our gilt are all besmirch'd
Our inland from the pilfering borderers.
Our isle be made a nourish of salt tears,
Our late King, Richard, being infected, died.
Our madams mock at us and plainly say
Our men more perfect in the use of arms,
Our mettle is bred out, and they will give
Our navy is address'd, our power connected,
Our news shall go before us to his Majesty,
Our peace shall stand as firm as rocky mountains.
Our peace will, like a broken limb united,
Our puissance into the hand of God,
Our scions, put in wild and savage stock,
Our substitutes in absence well invested,
Our thighs with wax, our mouths with honey pack'd,
Our very veins of life. Hear me more plainly.
Out of appearance?
Out of his keeper's arms, even so my limbs,
Out of the speech of peace, that bears such grace,
Out-rode me. After him came spurring hard
Pales in the flood with men, with wives, and boys,
Paris, Guysors, Poictiers, are all quite lost.
Pass our accept and peremptory answer.
Past and to come seems best; things present, worst.
Peasant, unless thou give me crowns, brave crowns;
Pegasus, chez les narines de feu! When I bestride him I soar, I
Peopled with wolves, thy old inhabitants!
Perforce must move. My gracious lord! my father!
Perpend my words, O Signieur Dew, and mark:
Pick'd from the worm-holes of long-vanish'd days,
Pickbone, and Will Squele a Cotsole man- you had not four such
Pie-corner- saving your manhoods- to buy a saddle; and he is
Piercing the night's dull ear; and from the tents
Pistol; come, Bardolph. I shall be sent for soon at night.
Plant neighbourhood and Christian-like accord
Play with your fancies; and in them behold
Playing the mouse in absence of the cat,
Pleading so wisely in excuse of it!
Pluck down my officers, break my decrees;
Pluck their hearts from them! Not to-day, O Lord,
Poor miserable wretches, to your death;
Poor we call them in their native lords!
Possess them not with fear! Take from them now
Posterity, await for wretched years,
Presenteth them unto the gazing moon
Preserving life in med'cine potable;
Presume not that I am the thing I was,
Prevented from a damned enterprise.
Prince Dauphin, you shall stay with us in Rouen.
Prince Harry slain outright; and both the Blunts
Prince John, your son, doth kiss your Grace's hand.
Prince for striking him about Bardolph.
Princely in both.
Promis'd to Harry and his followers.
Proper to madmen, led his powers to death,
Prosper this realm, keep it from civil broils,
Protector
Proud of their numbers and secure in soul,
Prove that ever I dress myself handsome till thy return. Well,
Psalmist saith, is certain to all; all shall die. How a good yoke
Puff in thy teeth, most recreant coward base!
Put forth disorder'd twigs; her fallow leas
Put into parts, doth keep in one consent,
Put not you on the visage of the times
Putting it straight in expedition.
Question surveyors, know our own estate
Question your Grace the late ambassadors
Question your royal thoughts, make the case yours;
Quickly; and certainly she did you wrong, for you were
Quite from himself to God. But now behold
Rather proclaim it, Westmoreland, through my host,
Read them, and know I know your worthiness.
Receiv'd the golden earnest of our death;
Receive each other. God speak this Amen!
Reign in all bosoms, that, each heart being set
Reignier, Duke of Anjou, doth take his part;
Reigns solely in the breast of every man;
Remaineth none but mad-brain'd Salisbury,
Rememb'red tolling a departing friend.
Rend'ring faint quittance, wearied and out-breath'd,
Repent at idle times as thou mayst, and so farewell.
Reply not to me with a fool-born jest;
Reproach and everlasting shame
Retiring from the siege of Orleans,
Returns us that his powers are yet not ready
Revel the night, rob, murder, and commit
Revives two greater in the heirs of life;
Ride thou unto the horsemen on yond hill;
Right ill-dispos'd in brawl ridiculous,
Ripe for exploits and mighty enterprises.
Rotten opinion, who hath writ me down
Rouse up revenge from ebon den with fell Alecto's snake,
Ruling in large and ample empery
Rumour doth double, like the voice and echo,
Runs far before them. Good my sovereign,
Runs in your veins; and my thrice-puissant liege
Rush on his host as doth the melted snow
Sad tidings bring I to you out of France,
Said he young Harry Percy's spur was cold?
Saint Denis and Saint George, compound a boy, half French, half
Save ceremony- save general ceremony?
Save those to God, that run before our business.
Saw his heroical seed, and smil'd to see him,
Saw you the field? Came you from Shrewsbury?
Say it did so a little time before
Say you not, then, our offer is compell'd.
Say, Morton, didst thou come from Shrewsbury?
Saying our grace is only in our heels
Says that you savour too much of your youth,
Scarce blood enough in all their sickly veins
Scoggin's head at the court gate, when 'a was a crack not thus
Seal up the ship-boy's eyes, and rock his brains
Second to none, unseconded by you-
See what a ready tongue suspicion hath!
See you, my princes and my noble peers,
See your most dreadful laws so loosely slighted,
Seek through your camp to find you.
Seek to divert the English purposes.
Seem frosty? O, for honour of our land,
Seem'd on our side, but for their spirits and souls
Seems to prepare his way. So let him land,
Self-love, my liege, is not so vile a sin
Serves to say thus, 'Some good thing comes to-morrow.'
Set on.                        Exeunt the KING and his train
Setting endeavour in continual motion;
Shake in their fear and with pale policy
Shall all be very well provided for;
Shall as a pattern or a measure live
Shall be a wall sufficient to defend
Shall be my brother; be he ne'er so vile,
Shall be to you as us like glorious.
Shall better speak of you than you deserve.
Shall break into corruption' so went on,
Shall bring this prize in very easily.
Shall change all griefs and quarrels into love.
Shall chide your trespass and return your mock
Shall drop their blood in approbation
Shall flesh his tooth on every innocent.
Shall never leak, though it do work as strong
Shall not be wink'd at, how shall we stretch our eye
Shall see advantageable for our dignity,
Shall show itself more openly hereafter.
Shall soon enjoy.
Shall stand sore charged for the wasteful vengeance
Shall strike his father's crown into the hazard.
Shall taste our mercy. Go and tell them so.
Shall think themselves accurs'd they were not here,
Shall this his mock mock of their dear husbands;
Shall to the King taste of this action;
Shall we fall foul for toys?
Shall we steal upon them, Ned, at supper?
Shall witness live in brass of this day's work.
Shall yield them little, tell the Constable.
Shall, O dear father, pay thee plenteously.
Shallow that no man could better command his servants. It is
Shallow, be what thou wilt- I am Fortune's steward. Get on thy
Shallow, deep, Master Shallow.
She either gives a stomach and no food-
She hath herself not only well defended
She is our capital demand, compris'd
Should be inheritrix in Salique land;
Should be maintain'd, assembled, and collected,
Should be still-born, and that we now possess'd
Should not expel these inconveniences
Should not in this best garden of the world,
Should with his lion gait walk the whole world,
Shrewsbury, and, as I hear, is now going with some charge to the
Shrewsbury.
Since Cxsar's fortunes!
Since God so graciously hath brought to light
Since I may say 'Now lie I like a king.'
Since Richard and Northumberland, great friends,
Since arms avail not, now that Henry's dead.
Since that my penitence comes after all,
Since then my office hath so far prevail'd
Since they, so few, watch such a multitude.
Since we have locks to safeguard necessaries
Sing still for Richard's soul. More will I do;
Sir John, I am thy Pistol and thy friend,
Sir John, thy tender lambkin now is King;
Sir John, you shall not be excus'd.
Sir Richard Kikely, Davy Gam, Esquire;
Sir Thomas Grey, knight, of Northumberland,
Sit patiently and inly ruminate
Sits mocking in our plumes.                 [A short alarum]
Sits not so easy on me as you think.
Sleeps in Elysium; next day, after dawn,
Small time, but, in that small, most greatly lived
Smithfield. An I could get me but a wife in the stews, I were
Snores out the watch of night. O majesty!
So 'a bade me lay more clothes on his feet; I put my hand into
So are you, princes English, every one.
So be there 'twixt your kingdoms such a spousal
So did he turn, and over Suffolk's neck
So did our men, heavy in Hotspur's loss,
So do our vulgar drench their peasant limbs
So do the kings of France unto this day,
So dreadful will not be as was his sight.
So dull, so dread in look, so woe-begone,
So fought, so followed, and so fairly won,
So get you hence in peace; and tell the Dauphin
So great indignities you laid upon me?
So hath your Highness; never King of England
So idly to profane the precious time,
So in the earth, to this day is not known.
So looks the strand whereon the imperious flood
So many English kings. Thy due from me
So many a thousand actions, once afoot,
So many horrid ghosts. O, now, who will behold
So much complexion? Look ye how they change!
So shall I live to speak my father's words:
So surfeit-swell'd, so old, and so profane;
So swift a pace hath thought that even now
So tediously away. The poor condemned English,
So tell your master.
So that his power, like to a fangless lion,
So that this land, like an offensive wife
So that, as clear as is the summer's sun,
So that, in these ten thousand they have lost,
So the proportions of defence are fill'd;
So the son of the female is the shadow of the male. It is often
So thin that life looks through, and will break out.
So thou the garland wear'st successively.
So will I those that kept me company.
So, so, thou common dog, didst thou disgorge
Some guard these traitors to the block of death,
Some petty and unprofitable dukedoms.
Some sudden mischief may arise of it;
Sooner than quittance of desert and merit
Sorrow so royally in you appears
Sorry am I his numbers are so few,
Sounds ever after as a sullen bell,
Speak freely of our acts, or else our grave,
Speak plainly your opinions of our hopes-
Speak softly, or the loss of those great towns
Speak, Captain, for his life, and I will thee requite.
Spirt up so suddenly into the clouds,
Spoke at a venture. Look, here comes more news.
Stand for your own, unwind your bloody flag,
Stand from him, fellow; wherefore hang'st thou upon him?
Stand from him, give him air; he'll straight be well.
Stand in our way. There's for thy labour, Montjoy.
Stay but a little, for my cloud of dignity
Staying no longer question.
Steed threatens steed, in high and boastful neighs
Stiffen the sinews, summon up the blood,
Stockfish, a fruiterer, behind Gray's Inn. Jesu, Jesu, the mad
Stood smiling to behold his lion's whelp
Stoop tamely to the foot of majesty.
Stopping my greedy ear with their bold deeds;
Straining upon the start. The game's afoot:
Stretches itself beyond the hour of death.
Strike up our drums, pursue the scatt'red stray.
Stumbling in fear, was took. The sum of all
Subdu'd the Saxons, and did seat the French
Success and conquest to attend on us.
Such and so finely bolted didst thou seem;
Such are the poor, in health- or else a feast,
Such as will enter at a lady's ear,
Such outward things dwell not in my desires.
Such things become the hatch and brood of time;
Suffolk first died; and York, all haggled over,
Suits not in native colours with the truth;
Suppos'd sincere and holy in his thoughts,
Suppose th' ambassador from the French comes back;
Sweat drops of gallant youth in our rich fields-
Sweats in the eye of Pheebus, and all night
Sweeten the bitter mock you sent his Majesty,
Swill'd with the wild and wasteful ocean.
Take all his company along with him.
Take pity of your town and of your people
Take them away.
Take up the English short, and let them know
Talbot is taken, whom we wont to fear;
Tarry, sweet soul, for mine, then fly abreast;
Teach you our princess English?
Teacheth this prostrate and exterior bending!
Tearsheet.
Tell him he hath made a match with such a wrangler
Tell thou an earl his divination lies,
Tell us the Dauphin's mind.
Tell you the Dauphin, I am coming on,
Tells Harry that the King doth offer him
Tells them he doth bestride a bleeding land,
Ten thousand soldiers with me I will take,
Tewksbury mustard; there's no more conceit in him than is in a
Th' abuse of distance, force a play.
Th' advised head defends itself at home;
Th' immediate heir of England! Was this easy?
Th' incessant care and labour of his mind
Th' unstained sword that you have us'd to bear;
Than Cambridge is, hath likewise sworn. But, O,
Than I do at this hour joy o'er myself,
Than I have drawn it in my fantasy.
Than Julius Caesar or bright
Than a joint burden laid upon us all.
Than all thy brothers; cherish it, my boy,
Than amply to imbar their crooked tides
Than as your honour and as your renown,
Than did our soldiers, aiming at their safety,
Than from it issued forced drops of blood;
Than in the perfum'd chambers of the great,
Than is your Majesty. There's not, I think, a subject
Than mid-day sun fierce bent against their faces.
Than now to see you here an iron man,
Than that of thought. Suppose that you have seen
Than they in fearing.
That England shall couch down in fear and yield.
That England, being empty of defence,
That English may as French, French Englishmen,
That God fought for us.
That I and greatness were compell'd to kiss-
That I do brag thus; this your air of France
That I have fin'd these bones of mine for ransom?
That I have turn'd away my former self;
That I may know the let why gentle Peace
That I may prompt them; and of such as have,
That I will dazzle all the eyes of France,
That I will deeply put the fashion on,
That admiration did not whoop at them;
That all the courts of France will be disturb'd
That all their eyes may bear those tokens home
That almost mightst have coin'd me into gold,
That are insinewed to this action,
That arrows fled not swifter toward their aim
That beats upon the high shore of this world-
That bloodily did yawn upon his face,
That by indictment and by dint of sword
That can be with a nimble galliard won;
That caves and womby vaultages of France
That dares do justice on my proper son;
That do no work to-day!
That doth with awe and terror kneel to it!
That even our corn shall seem as light as chaff,
That ever I shall breathe. God knows, my son,
That every slight and false-derived cause,
That every wretch, pining and pale before,
That face to face and royal eye to eye
That fair Queen Isabel, his grandmother,
That fashion'd others. And him- O wondrous him!
That fear attends her not.
That fears his fellowship to die with us.
That feel the bruises of the days before,
That fought with us upon Saint Crispin's day.
That freely rend'red me these news for true.
That from this golden rigol hath divorc'd
That frosts will bite them. When we mean to build,
That goddess blind,
That great Northumberland, then false to him,
That grows not in a fair consent with ours;
That guards the peace and safety of your person;
That had before my face murd'red my father-
That hath enrag'd him on to offer strokes,
That hath not noble lustre in your eyes.
That haunted us in our familiar paths.
That have abundance and enjoy it not.
That have consented unto Henry's death!
That have so cowarded and chas'd your blood
That he should, for a foreign purse, so sell
That he which hath no stomach to this fight,
That he will give you audience; and wherein
That here I kiss her as my sovereign queen.       [Floulish]
That here you maintain several factions;
That if requiring fail, he will compel;
That if we wrought out life 'twas ten to one;
That in the dole of blows your son might drop.
That in the field lie slain; of princes in this number,
That is the word. I thee defy again.
That it may grow and sprout as high as heaven,
That it will quickly drop; my day is dim.
That keep'st the ports of slumber open wide
That knew'st the very bottom of my soul,
That lack of means enforce you not to evils;
That led me hither. Had they been rul'd by me,
That makes a still-stand, running neither way.
That makes such waste in brief mortality.
That man that sits within a monarch's heart
That many things, having full reference
That may give furth'rance to our expedition;
That may repeat and history his los
That may with reasonable swiftness ad
That men are merriest when they are from home.
That might annoy my finger? 'Tis so strange
That might so much as think you enemies.
That must strike sail to spirits of vile sort!
That need to be reviv'd and breath'd in me?
That never may ill office or fell jealousy,
That no conditions of our peace can stand.
That nothing do but meditate on blood-
That our French gallants shall to-day draw out,
That our great grandsire, Edward, sick'd and died.
That our superfluous lackeys and our peasants-
That owe yourselves, your lives, and services,
That play'st so subtly with a king's repose.
That plotted thus our glory's overthrow?
That rail'd against our person. We consider
That scald'st with safety. By his gates of breath
That shall be swallowed in this controversy.
That shall first spring and be most delicate.
That shall fly with them; for many a thousand widows
That shall have cause to curse the Dauphin's scorn.
That should deracinate such savagery;
That sits in heart-grief and uneasines
That stands upon the rolling restless stone-
That stopp'd by me to breathe his bloodied horse.
That strength of speech is utterly denied me.
That task our thoughts, concerning us and France.
That the fix'd sentinels almost receive
That the great body of our state may go
That the land Salique is in Germany,
That the united vessel of their blood,
That their hot blood may spin in English eyes,
That they lost France and made his England bleed;
That this fair action may on foot be brought.         Exeunt
That those whom you call'd fathers did beget you.
That thou art crowned, not that I am dead.
That thou mightst win the more thy father's love,
That thou no more will weigh my eyelids down,
That thou provok'st thyself to cast him up.
That thou wilt needs invest thee with my honours
That tyranny, which never quaff'd but blood,
That war, or peace, or both at once, may be
That was uprear'd to execution.
That we may wander o'er this bloody field
That we should dress us fairly for our end.
That what he fear'd is chanced. Yet speak, Morton;
That what you speak is in your conscience wash'd
That which I would to God I had not seen;
That with the hurly death itself awakes?
That would deliver up his greatness so
That wrought upon thee so preposterously
That you are worth your breeding- which I doubt not;
That you divest yourself, and lay apart
That you should fashion, wrest, or bow your reading,
That you should have an inch of any ground
That you should seal this lawless bloody book
That your attempts may overlive the hazard
That, being dead, like to the bullet's grazing
That, plucking to unfix an enemy,
That, though the truth of it stands off as gross
That, were our royal faiths martyrs in love,
Thawing cold fear, that mean and gentle all
The 'solus' in thy most mervailous face;
The 'solus' in thy teeth, and in thy throat,
The Alps doth spit and void his rheum upon;
The Bastard of Orleans with him is join'd;
The Church's prayers made him so prosperous.
The Dauphin Charles is crowned king in Rheims;
The Dauphin's meaning and our embassy?
The Dauphin, whom of succours we entreated,
The Duke of Alencon flieth to his side.
The Duke of Exeter doth love thee well.
The Earl Northumberland and the Lord Bardolph,
The Earl of Hereford was reputed then
The Earl of Salisbury craveth supply
The Emperor's coming in behalf of France
The English army is grown weak and faint;
The French are bravely in their battles set,
The French exclaim'd the devil was in arms;
The French have reinforc'd their scatter'd men.
The French, advis'd by good intelligence
The King from Eltham I intend to steal,
The King is almost wounded to the death;
The King is set from London, and the scene
The King of Scots; whom she did send to France,
The King that lov'd him, as the state stood then,
The King your father is dispos'd to sleep.
The Marshal and the Archbishop are strong.
The Prince but studies his companions
The Prince will, in the perfectness of time,
The Prince, Lord John and Duke of Lancaster.
The act of order to a peopled kingdom.
The action of their bodies from their souls;
The aptest way for safety and revenge.
The armourers accomplishing the knights,
The battles of the Lord of Hosts he fought;
The beachy girdle of the ocean
The blind and bloody with foul hand
The blood and courage that renowned them
The blood weeps from my heart when I do shape,
The bloody Douglas, whose well-labouring sword
The borrowed glories that by gift of heaven,
The bragging Spaniard.
The brother to the Duke of Burgundy;
The cank'red heaps of strange-achieved gold;
The circumstance I'll tell you more at large.
The civil citizens kneading up the honey,
The commonwealth is sick of their own choice;
The confident and over-lusty French
The constable desires thee thou wilt mind
The country cocks do crow, the clocks do ton,
The course of it so far. There is your crown,
The crowns will take.
The dangers of the days but newly gone,
The darnel, hemlock, and rank fumitory,
The day, my friends, and all things, stay for me.     Exeunt
The dead men's blood, the privy maidens' groans,
The dead with charity enclos'd in clay-
The dove, and very blessed spirit of peace-
The emptying of our fathers' luxury,
The enemy more mighty than he seems;
The even mead, that erst brought sweetly forth
The farced tide running fore the king,
The fatal balls of murdering basilisks;
The fewer men, the greater share of honour.
The founder of this law and female bar.
The freckled cowslip, burnet, and green clover,
The gates of mercy shall be all shut up,
The gay new coats o'er the French soldiers' heads
The gentle Archbishop of York is up
The glove which I have given him for a favour
The grave doth gape and doting death is near;
The greater therefore should our courage be.
The gum down-roping from their pale-dead eyes,
The happiest youth, viewing his progress through,
The horse he rode on and, upon my life,
The horsemen sit like fixed candlesticks
The hum of either army stilly sounds,
The image of his power lay then in me;
The image of the King whom I presented,
The interim, by rememb'ring you 'tis past.
The intertissued robe of gold and pearl,
The kindred of him hath been flesh'd upon us;
The lazy yawning drone. I this infer,
The leading of the vaward.
The lifting up of day.
The lives of all your loving complices
The majesty and power of law and justice,
The man that once did sell the lion's skin
The manner and true order of the fight
The manner how this action hath been borne
The master of the cross-bows, Lord Rambures;
The mayor and all his brethren in best sort-
The mettle of your pasture; let us swear
The mighty sender, doth he prize you at.
The moist impediments unto my speech,
The morning's danger; and their gesture sad
The muzzle of restraint, and the wild dog
The name of Agincourt. Yet sit and see,
The name of hardiness and policy.
The names of those their nobles that lie dead:
The native mightiness and fate of him.
The never-daunted Percy to the earth,
The noble Earl of Suffolk also lies.
The noble change that I have purposed!
The numbers of the feared. Please it your Grace
The offer likes not; and the nimble gunner
The oldest sins the newest kind of ways?
The organs, though defunct and dead before,
The other lords, like lions wanting food,
The parcels and particulars of our grief,
The patterns that by God and by French fathers
The plot of situation and the model,
The poor mechanic porters crowding in
The powers that you already have sent forth
The pretty and sweet manner of it forc'd
The quarrel of a true inheritor.
The ragged'st hour that time and spite dare bring
The rest are princes, barons, lords, knights, squires,
The royal captain of this ruin'd band
The sad-ey'd justice, with his surly hum,
The sciences that should become our country;
The seasons change their manners, as the year
The secret whispers of each other's watch.
The sense of reck'ning, if th' opposed numbers
The service that I truly did his life
The singing masons building roofs of gold,
The slave, a member of the country's peace,
The smell whereof shall breed a plague in France.
The sooner to effect what I intended;
The spirit of deep prophecy she hath,
The state of man in divers functions,
The stiff-borne action. What hath then befall'n,
The subjects of His substitute, my father,
The substance of my speech. If that rebellion
The sum is paid, the traitors are agreed,
The sum of all our answer is but this:
The sun is high, and we outwear the day.              Exeunt
The sweetness of affiance! Show men dutiful?
The sword, the mace, the crown imperial,
The taste whereof God of his mercy give
The tenth of August last this dreadful lord,
The throne he sits on, nor the tide of pomp
The time misord'red doth, in common sense,
The time was, father, that you broke your word,
The tongue offends not that reports his death;
The tucket sonance and the note to mount;
The tutor and the feeder of my riots.
The utmost man of expectation,
The vapour of our valour will o'erturn them.
The venom of such looks, we fairly hope,
The very instruments of chastisement;
The very opener and intelligencer
The virtuous sweets,
The walls they'll tear down than forsake the siege.
The well-appointed King at Hampton pier
The which hath been with scorn shov'd from the court,
The which he could not levy; whereupon
The which observ'd, a man may prophesy,
The winter coming on, and sickness growing
Their armed staves in charge, their beavers down,
Their arms are set, like clocks, still to strike on;
Their bodies to the lust of English youth
Their brains with care, their bones with industry;
Their cheeks are paper. Why, what read you there
Their cold intent, tenour, and substance, thus:
Their eyes of fire sparkling through sights of steel,
Their heavy burdens at his narrow gate,
Their neighing coursers daring of the spur,
Their over-greedy love hath surfeited.
Their ragged curtains poorly are let loose,
Their sons with arts and martial exercises;
Then brook abridgment; and your eyes advance,
Then check'd and rated by Northumberland,
Then death rock me asleep, abridge my doleful days!
Then doth it well appear the Salique law
Then every soldier kill his prisoners;
Then get thee gone, and dig my grave thyself;
Then imitate the action of the tiger:
Then join you with them, like a rib of steel,
Then joyfully, my noble Lord of Bedford,
Then lend the eye a terrible aspect;
Then let us meet them like necessities;
Then plain and right must my possession be;
Then reason will our hearts should be as good.
Then shall I swear to Kate, and you to me,
Then threw he down himself, and all their lives
Then we must rate the cost of the erection;
Then will he strip his sleeve and show his scars,
Then, Pistol, lay thy head in Furies' lap.
Then, forth, dear countrymen; let us deliver
Then, then, when there was nothing could have stay'd
There are but sixteen hundred mercenaries;
There is much care and valour in this Welshman.
There is no answer made.
There is not now a rebel's sword unsheath'd,
There is not work enough for all our hands;
There is some soul of goodness in things evil,
There is the play-house now, there must you sit,
There left behind and settled certain French;
There lies a downy feather which stirs not.
There must we bring him; and myself have play'd
There were two honours lost, yours and your son's.
There yours, Lord Scroop of Masham; and, Sir Knight,
There's a letter for you.
There's a whole merchant's venture of Bourdeaux stuff in him; you
There's not a piece of feather in our host-
Therefore exhale.                             [PISTOL draws]
Therefore in fierce tempest is he coming,
Therefore let every man now task his thought
Therefore let our proportions for these wars
Therefore omit him not; blunt not his love,
Therefore should every soldier in the wars do as every sick man
Therefore still bear the balance and the sword;
Therefore take heed how you impawn our person,
Therefore the Dukes of Berri and of Britaine,
Therefore thou best of gold art worst of gold.
Therefore to our best mercy give yourselves
Therefore with frank and with uncurbed plainness
Therefore, Caveto be thy counsellor.
Therefore, I say, 'tis meet we all go forth
Therefore, go speak- the Duke will hear thy voice;
Therefore, my lords, omit no happy hour
These English monsters! My Lord of Cambridge here-
These cull'd and choice-drawn cavaliers to France?
These news would cause him once more yield the ghost.
These tardy tricks of yours will, on my life,
These tidings would call forth their flowing tides.
They had such courage and audacity?
They have a king, and officers of sorts,
They pitched in the ground confusedly
They say the Bishop and Northumberland
They sell the pasture now to buy the horse,
They shall be fam'd; for there the sun shall greet them
They shall have none, I swear, but these my joints;
They that, when Richard liv'd, would have him die
They'll be in fresher robes, or they will pluck
Think you not that the pow'rs we bear with us
Thinks thou the fiery fever will go out
This Doll Tearsheet should be some road.
This Percy was the man nearest my soul;
This dangerous treason, lurking in our way
This day is call'd the feast of Crispian.
This day shall gentle his condition;
This is his claim, his threat'ning, and my message;
This is the English, not the Turkish court;
This is the latest parle we will admit;
This knight, no less for bounty bound to us
This lineal honour from me. This from thee
This news of peace. Let them have pay, and part.
This offer comes from mercy, not from fear;
This packet, please it you, contains at large.
This part of his conjoins with my disease
This present grief had wip'd it from my mind.
This sleep is sound indeed; this is a sleep
This star of England. Fortune made his sword;
This story shall the good man teach his son;
This thou wouldst say: 'Your son did thus and thus;
This tun of treasure; and, in lieu of this,
This word 'rebellion'- it had froze them up,
Those waters from me which I would have stopp'd;
Thou art a guard too wanton for the head
Thou art not firm enough, since griefs are green;
Thou damned and luxurious mountain-goat,
Thou hast a better place in his affection
Thou hast a sigh to blow away this praise,
Thou hast seal'd up my expectation.
Thou hast stol'n that which, after some few hours,
Thou hid'st a thousand daggers in thy thoughts,
Thou needs must be englutted. Besides, in mercy,
Thou never shalt hear herald any more.                  Exit
Thou seek'st the greatness that will overwhelm thee.
Thou seest with peril I have answered;
Thou shak'st thy head, and hold'st it fear or sin
Thou that didst bear the key of all my counsels,
Thou that threw'st dust upon his goodly head,
Thou tremblest; and the whiteness in thy cheek
Thou, beastly feeder, art so full of him
Though 'tis no wisdom to confess so much
Though Cambridge, Scroop, and Grey, in their dear care
Though France himself and such another neighbour
Though all that I can do is nothing worth,
Though in pure truth it was corrupt and naught-
Though strongly apprehended, could restrain
Though then, God knows, I had no such intent
Though war nor no known quarrel were in question,
Though we upon this mountain's basis by
Threw many a northward look to see his father
Thrust Talbot with a spear into the back;
Thrust in between the paction of these kingdoms,
Thursday. Shalt have a cap to-morrow. A merry song, come. 'A
Thus may we gather honey from the weed,
Thus says my king: an if your father's Highness
Thy Doll, and Helen of thy noble thoughts,
Thy followers of repentance, that their souls
Thy glutton bosom of the royal Richard;
Thy life did manifest thou lov'dst me not,
Thy spirits are most tall.
Thy wife is proud; she holdeth thee in awe
Till Harry's back-return again to France.
Till I do challenge it. Give him the crowns;
Till his friend sickness hath determin'd me?
Till in her ashes she lie buried.
Till that his passions, like a whale on ground,
Till that the nobles and the armed commons
Till then I banish thee, on pain of death,
Till time and vantage crave my company.               Exeunt
Till we had his assistance by the hand;
Till you do live to see a son of mine
To England will I steal, and there I'll steal;
To Harry Monmouth, whose swift wrath beat down
To Lewis the Emperor, and Lewis the son
To Scotland; and concludes in hearty prayers
To York, to present execution.
To a loud trumpet and a point of war?
To all the Duke of Norfolk's signiories,
To answer matters of this consequence.      Flourish. Exeunt
To answer royally in our defences.
To appoint some of your council presently
To bar your Highness claiming from the female;
To barbarous licence; as 'tis ever common
To be again displac'd; which to avoid,
To be the realm of France, and Pharamond
To boast of this or take that praise from God
To book our dead, and then to bury them;
To bring your most imperial Majesties
To brother horn an household cruelty,
To build a grief on. Were you not restor'd
To build at all? Much more, in this great work-
To buy a slobb'ry and a dirty farm
To come ashore. Therefore, you men of Harfleur,
To comfort you the more, I have receiv'd
To demonstrate the life of such a battle
To diet rank minds sick of happiness,
To do brave acts. He was indeed the glass
To do our country loss; and if to live,
To do your Grace incessant services.
To feed contention in a ling'ring act;
To fill King Edward's fame with prisoner kings,
To find his title with some shows of truth-
To five and twenty thousand men of choice;
To fright our party.
To frown upon th' enrag'd Northumberland!
To frustrate prophecies, and to raze out
To furnish him with an appertinents
To give admittance to a thought of fear.
To give each naked curtle-axe a stain
To give you gentle pass; for, if we may,
To go about my preparation.                             Exit
To go to bed. Upon my soul, my lord,
To have a son set your decrees at nought,
To have me fold up Parca's fatal web?
To hear and absolutely to determine
To her unguarded nest the weasel Scot
To him and to his heirs- namely, the crown,
To hinder our beginnings; we doubt not now
To his full height. On, on, you noblest English,
To hold in right and tide of the female;
To hold our safety up. I sent your Grace
To hold your honour more precise and nice
To keep our great Saint George's feast withal.
To keep the horsemen off from breaking in.
To kill us here in Hampton; to the which
To know the numbers of our enemies.
To know what willing ransom he will give.
To know your griefs; to tell you from his Grace
To lay a heavy and unequal hand
To lay down likelihoods and forms of hope.
To lead out many to the Holy Land,
To line and new repair our towns of war
To look upon the hideous god of war
To look with forehead bold and big enough
To make against your Highness' claim to France
To make divorce of their incorporate league;
To make strength stronger; but, for all our loves,
To many a watchful night! Sleep with it now!
To mark the full-fraught man and best indued
To meet his Grace just distance 'tween our armies?
To mock the expectation of the world,
To new remembrance. For full well he knows
To new-store France with bastard warriors.
To one consent, may work contrariously;
To order peace between them; and omit
To our most fair and princely cousin Katherine.
To pluck down justice from your awful bench,
To purge this field of, such a hilding foe;
To rain upon remembrance with mine eyes,
To raise so great a siege. Therefore, great King,
To re-survey them, we will suddenly
To see perform'd the tenour of our word.
To seem like him: so that in speech, in gait,
To sit with us once more, with better heed
To smother up the English in our throngs,
To sort our nobles from our common men;
To sound the bottom of the after-times.
To sounds confus'd; behold the threaden sails,
To speak a truth. If he be slain, say so:
To stab at half an hour of my life.
To stormy passion, must perforce decay.
To suck, to suck, the very blood to suck.
To swearing and stern looks, diffus'd attire,
To tear and havoc more than she can eat.
To the last man.
To the tent-royal of their emperor;
To the wet sea-boy in an hour so rude;
To thee it shall descend with better quiet,
To this debate that bleedeth at our doors,
To this imperial throne. There is no bar
To trip the course of law, and blunt the sword
To try with it- as with an enemy
To us and to our purposes confin'd-
To us th' imagin'd voice of God himself,
To us the speaker in His parliament,
To venge me as I may and to put forth
To view th' artillery and munition;
To view the field in safety, and dispose
To view the sick and feeble parts of France;
To weep their intermissive miseries.
To weigh against his opposite; or else
To welcome him! Much more, and much more cause,
To welcome the condition of the time,
To which is fixed as an aim or but
To whom I do appeal; and in whose name,
To whom expressly I bring greeting too.
To your well-practis'd wise directions.
To-day might I, hanging on Hotspur's neck,
To-morrow for the march are we addrest.
To-morrow shall you bear our full intent
To-night in Harfleur will we be your guest;
Tombless, with no remembrance over them.
Too near unto my state. Therefore, my Harry,
Too soon ta'en prisoner; and that furious Scot,
Too wide for Neptune's hips; how chances mock,
Took stand for idle speculation-
Touching our person seek we no revenge;
Toward Calais. Grant him there. There seen,
Toward heaven, to pardon blood; and I have built
Towards fronting peril and oppos'd decay!
Treason and murder ever kept together,
Treason's true bed and yielder-up of breath.          Exeunt
Troop in the throngs of military men;
Trust none;
Turn'd on themselves, like dull and heavy lead.
Turning past evils to advantages.
Turning the widows' tears, the orphans' cries,
Turning the word to sword, and life to death.
Turning your books to graves, your ink to blood,
Turns insurrection to religion.
Twin-born with greatness, subject to the breath
Two chantries, where the sad and solemn priests
Under the canopies of costly state,
Under the conduct of young Lancaster
Under the counterfeited zeal of God,
Under the sweet shade of your government.
Under this conjuration speak, my lord;
Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown.
Unfather'd heirs and loathly births of nature.
Unfought withal, but I will sell my dukedom
Unless on you.
Unless some dull and favourable hand
Unless the Dauphin be in presence here,
Unless to dub thee with the name of traitor.
Unpruned dies; her hedges even-pleach'd,
Until four hundred one and twenty years
Until this instant. Take a trumpet, herald,
Unto Southampton do we shift our scene.                 Exit
Unto an enemy of craft and vantage-
Unto his dastard foemen is betray'd.
Unto our brother France, and to our sister,
Unto the French the dreadful judgment-day
Unto the camp, and profits will accrue.
Unto the crown of France. That you may know
Unto the lodging where I first did swoon?
Unto the weary and all-watched night;
Unto this bar and royal interview,
Unto whose grace our passion is as subject
Unto your Grace do I in chief address
Unto your sickness.
Untwine the Sisters Three! Come, Atropos, I say!
Up in the air, crown'd with the golden sun-
Up to the rowel-head; and starting so,
Up, Princes, and, with spirit of honour edged
Upon Saint Davy's day.
Upon a wooden coffin we attend;
Upon enforcement flies with greatest speed,
Upon example; so the spirit is eased;
Upon his royal face there is no note
Upon mine honour, all too confident
Upon mine honour, for a silken point
Upon my soul, they shall. If this may please you,
Upon or near the rate of thirty thousand.
Upon our fields.
Upon our honours?
Upon our houses' thatch, whiles a more frosty people
Upon our soldiers, we will retire to Calais.
Upon such large terms and so absolute
Upon th' enraged soldiers in their spoil,
Upon the King! Let us our lives, our souls,
Upon the hempen tackle ship-boys climbing;
Upon the power and puissance of the King.
Upon the valleys, whose low vassal seat
Upon these words I came and cheer'd him up;
Upon uneasy pallets stretching thee,
Use mercy to them all. For us, dear uncle,
Using the names of men instead of men;
Usurp'd from you and your progenitors.
Virtue he had, deserving to command;
Visor is an arrant knave, on my knowledge.
Walking from watch to watch, from tent to tent,
Wanting the scythe, all uncorrected, rank,
Wart's hand, Bardolph.
Wart; you see what a ragged appearance it is. 'A shall charge you
Warwick and Talbot, Salisbury and Gloucester-
Warwick, and Huntington, go with the King;
Was ever known so great and little los
Was force perforce compell'd to banish him,
Was lineal of the Lady Ermengare,
Was not devised for the realm of France;
Was re-united to the Crown of France.
Was round encompassed and set upon.
Washing with kindly tears his gentle cheeks,
We are but warriors for the working-day;
We are denied access unto his person,
We bear our civil swords and native fire
We bring it to the hive, and, like the bees,
We carry not a heart with us from hence
We charge you, in the name of God, take heed;
We come within our awful banks again,
We do deliver you. Get you therefore hence,
We do salute you, Duke of Burgundy.
We doubt not of a fair and lucky war,
We few, we happy few, we band of brothers;
We first survey the plot, then draw the model;
We fortify in paper and in figures,
We have supplies to second our attempt.
We kept together in our chivalry.'
We may as bootless spend our vain command
We must bear all. O hard condition,
We never valu'd this poor seat of England;
We see th' appearing buds; which to prove fruit
We see which way the stream of time doth run
We shall be winnow'd with so rough a wind
We shall have each a hundred Englishmen.              Exeunt
We shall your tawny ground with your red blood
We should have cop'd withal.
We will aboard to-night. Why, how now, gentlemen?
We will in France, by God's grace, play a set
We will our youth lead on to higher fields,
We will, according to your strengths and qualities,
We with our stately presence glorify,
We would not die in that man's company
We would not seek a battle as we are;
We would, dear lords, unto the Holy Land.            Exeunt
We yield our town and lives to thy soft mercy.
We'll chide this Dauphin at his father's door.
We'll not offend one stomach with our play.
Weak'ned with grief, being now enrag'd with grief,
Wear it myself. Follow, good cousin Warwick;
Wearing the crown of France, till satisfied
Weary of solid firmness, melt itself
Wednesday in Wheeson week, when the Prince broke thy head for
Well, he may sleep in security; for he hath the horn of
Well, of sufferance comes ease.
Well, sweet Jack, have a care of thyself.
Well, there is sixpence to preserve thee.
Were all thy children kind and natural!
Were better than a churlish turf of France.
Were busied with a Whitsun morris-dance;
Were but the outside of the Roman Brutus,
Were it the mistress court of mighty Europe;
Were now the General of our gracious Empress-
Were set on Hereford, whom they doted on,
Were they at wars. It is but eight years since
Were thine without offense; and at my death
Westmoreland.
What I have done that misbecame my place,
What are thy rents? What are thy comings-in?
What do we then but draw anew the model
What doth concern your coming.
What drink'st thou oft, instead of homage sweet,
What feats he did that day. Then shall our names,
What is his name.
What is it then to me if impious war,
What is this castle call'd that stands hard by?
What is thy name? Discuss.
What is thy soul of adoration?
What is't to me when you yourselves are cause,
What kind of god art thou, that suffer'st more
What mightst thou do that honour would thee do,
What peer hath been suborn'd to grate on you
What perils past, what crosses to ensue,
What rein can hold licentious wickednes
What rub or what impediment there is
What say you? Will you yield, and this avoid?
What see you in those papers, that you lose
What shall I say to thee, Lord Scroop, thou cruel,
What should I say? His deeds exceed all speech:
What towns of any moment but we have?
What watch the king keeps to maintain the peace
What wilt thou do when riot is thy care?
What wrongs our arms may do, what wrongs we suffer,
What! a speaker is but a prater: a rhyme is but a ballad. A good
What! shall we curse the planets of mishap
What, Davy, I say!
What, canst thou not forbear me half an hour?
What, rate, rebuke, and roughly send to prison,
When 'a was naked, he was for all the world like a fork'd radish,
When Cressy battle fatally was struck,
When I am sleeping with my ancestors.
When I do rouse me in my throne of France;
When Pistol lies, do this; and fig me, like
When Richard, with his eye brim full of tears,
When all her chivalry hath been in France,
When articles too nicely urg'd be stood on.
When at their mothers' moist'ned eyes babes shall suck,
When capital crimes, chew'd, swallow'd, and digested,
When creeping murmur and the poring dark
When down the hill he holds his fierce career?
When everything is ended, then you come.
When gold becomes her object!
When he sees me go back one foot or flee.             Exeunt
When means and lavish manners meet together,
When rage and hot blood are his counsellors
When tempest of commotion, like the south,
When that my care could not withhold thy riots,
When that your flock, assembled by the bell,
When the man dies, let the inheritance
When thou dost hear I am as I have been,
When thou dost pinch thy bearer, thou dost sit
When thousands weep more than did laugh at it.
When through proud London he came sighing on
When time shall serve, to show in articles;
When we are wrong'd, and would unfold our griefs,
When we have match'd our rackets to these balls,
When you perceive his blood inclin'd to mirth;
When you were more endear'd to it than now;
When your own Percy, when my heart's dear Harry,
When, like the bee, tolling from every flower
Where Charles the Great, having subdu'd the Saxons,
Where hateful death put on his ugliest mask
Where is my Lord of Warwick?
Where is the Prince your brother?
Where is the number of our English dead?
Where it shall mingle with the state of floods,
Where ne'er from France arriv'd more happy men.       Exeunt
Where nothing but the sound of Hotspur's name
Where some like magistrates correct at home;
Where that his lords desire him to have borne
Where valiant Talbot, above human thought,
Where's Bardolph?
Where- O for pity!- we shall much disgrace
Wherefore you do so ill translate yourself
Wherein have you been galled by the King;
Wherein the noble youth did dress themselves.
Wherein thou art less happy being fear'd
Wherein you would have sold your king to slaughter,
Whereof take you one quarter into France,
Whereof you did complain; which, by mine honour,
Whereon this hydra son of war is born;
Whereon, as an offender to your father,
Wherewith already France is overrun.
Wherewith you now bedew King Henry's hearse,
Whether our present five and twenty thousand
Which God shall guard; and put the world's whole strength
Which I beseech your Highness to forgive,
Which I in sufferance heartily will rejoice,
Which I with more than with a common pain
Which Salique land the French unjustly gloze
Which Salique, as I said, 'twixt Elbe and Sala,
Which cannot go but thirty mile a day,
Which cannot in their huge and proper life
Which cannot look more hideously upon me
Which daily grew to quarrel and to bloodshed,
Which ever in the haunch of winter sings
Which if they have, as I will leave 'em them,
Which if we find outweighs ability,
Which is almost to pluck a kingdom down
Which is both healthful and good husbandry.
Which is his only.
Which likes me better than to wish us one.
Which long ere this we offer'd to the King,
Which must decide it.
Which my most inward true and duteous spirit
Which nature, love, and filial tenderness,
Which of a weak and niggardly projection
Which oft our stage hath shown; and, for their sake,
Which once in him abated, an the rest
Which pillage they with merry march bring home
Which princes, flesh'd with conquest, aim to hit.
Which should not find a ground to root upon
Which swims against your stream of quality.
Which thou hast whetted on thy stony heart,
Which to his former strength may be restored
Which to reduce into our former favout
Which troubles oft the bed of blessed marriage,
Which vainly I suppos'd the Holy Land.
Which you before so urg'd, lies in his answer.
Which you have cited, you must buy that peace
Which, as immediate from thy place and blood,
Which, by a vision sent to her from heaven,
Which, cousin, you shall bear to comfort him
Which, like a mighty whiffler, fore the King
While that the armed hand doth fight abroad,
While the beast liv'd was kill'd with hunting him.
Whiles England shall have generation.
Whiles I was busy for the commonwealth,
Whiles his most mighty father on a hill
Whiles that his mountain sire- on mountain standing,
Whiles the mad mothers with their howls confus'd
Whiles yet my soldiers are in my command;
Whiles yet the cool and temperate wind of grace
Whilst by a slave, no gender than my dog,
Whilst such a worthy leader, wanting aid,
Who are the late commissioners?
Who died within the year of our redemption
Who hath been still a giddy neighbour to us;
Who in unnecessary action swarm
Who knows on whom fortune would then have smil'd?
Who like a brother toil'd in my affairs
Who like a foul and ugly witch doth limp
Who on the French ground play'd a tragedy,
Who take the ruffian billows by the top,
Who then persuaded you to stay at home?
Who twice a day their wither'd hands hold up
Who undertook to sit and watch by you.
Who was sole heir to the usurper Capet,
Who when they were in health, I tell thee, herald,
Who with a double surety binds his followers.
Who's here? Westmoreland?
Who, busied in his majesty, surveys
Who, holding in disdain the German women
Who, with a body fill'd and vacant mind,
Whom all France, with their chief assembled strength,
Whom he hath dull'd and cloy'd with gracious favours-
Whom like a school-boy you may overawe.
Whose beard the silver hand of peace hath touch'd,
Whose blood is fet from fathers of war-proof-
Whose bloody deeds shall make an Europe quake.
Whose dangerous eyes may well be charm'd asleep
Whose hearts have left their bodies here in England
Whose hours the peasant best advantages.
Whose learning and good letters peace hath tutor'd,
Whose limbs were made in England, show us here
Whose memory is written on the earth
Whose music, to my thinking, pleas'd the King.
Whose ruin you have sought, that to her laws
Whose see is by a civil peace maintain'd,
Whose shouts and claps out-voice the deep-mouth'd sea,
Whose state so many had the managing
Whose tenours and particular effects
Whose want gives growth to th' imperfections
Whose white investments figure innocence,
Why doth the crown lie there upon his pillow,
Why rather, sleep, liest thou in smoky cribs,
Why that the naked, poor, and mangled Peace,
Why the law Salique, that they have in France,
Why, here it is; welcome these pleasant days!         Exeunt
Why, so didst thou. Come they of noble family?
Why, so didst thou. Or are they spare in diet,
Why, so didst thou. Seem they grave and learned?
Why, so didst thou. Seem they religious?
Why, then, let grievous, ghastly, gaping wounds
Will Fortune never come with both hands full,
Will I to mine leave as 'tis left to me.                Exit
Will cut their passage through the force of France,
Will it give place to flexure and low bending?
Will make him burst his lead and rise from death.
Will not go off until they hear you speak.
Will raise your Highness such a mighty sum
Will soon be levied. Herald, save thou thy labour;
Will stand a tip-toe when this day is nam'd,
Will whisper music to my weary spirit.
Will yearly on the vigil feast his neighbours,
Will you vouchsafe to teach a soldier terms
Willing you overlook this pedigree.
Wilt thou upon the high and giddy mast
Wilt thou? wilt thou? thou bastardly rogue! Murder, murder! Ah,
Winding up days with toil and nights with sleep,
With a great power of English and of Scots,
With a near aim, of the main chance of things
With all advantages.
With all appliances and means to boot,
With all my wits, my pains, and strong endeavours,
With ample and brim fulness of his force,
With an incensed fire of injuries.
With blood and sword and fire to win your right!
With busy hammers closing rivets up,
With casted slough and fresh legerity.
With chaces. And we understand him well,
With cheerful semblance and sweet majesty;
With conscience wide as hell, mowing like grass
With crowns imperial, crowns, and coronets,
With deafing clamour in the slippery clouds,
With divers liquors! O, if this were seen,
With edge of penny cord and vile reproach.
With envy of each other's happiness,
With every course in his particular.
With fatal mouths gaping on girded Harfleur.
With foreign quarrels, that action, hence borne out,
With four or five most vile and ragged foils,
With full accord to all our just demands;
With gentle eye-drops. He is coming hither.
With good advice and little medicine.
With grant of our most just and right desires;
With half their forces the full pride of France,
With hearts create of duty and of zeal.
With hollow poverty and emptiness.
With joyful tidings; and, being better hors'd,
With linstock now the devilish cannon touches,
With me into the earth. It seem'd in me
With men of courage and with means defendant;
With mistful eyes, or they will issue too.          [Alarum]
With new lamenting ancient oversights.
With one appearing hair that will not follow
With opening titles miscreate whose right
With others than with him! Let them alone.
With patches, colours, and with forms, being fetch'd
With pennons painted in the blood of Harfleur.
With profitable labour, to his grave.
With purpose to relieve and follow them-
With rainy marching in the painful field;
With silken streamers the young Phorbus fanning.
With some suspicion. I will weep for thee;
With such a deep demeanour in great sorrow,
With sunken wreck and sumless treasuries.
With that he gave his able horse the head
With the like bold, just, and impartial spirit
With the plebeians swarming at their heels-
With this remembrance- that you use the same
With titles blown from adulation?
With torch-staves in their hand; and their poor jades
With treacherous crowns; and three corrupted men-
With well-appointed pow'rs. He is a man
With what great state he heard their embassy,
With winged heels, as English Mercuries.
With yet appearing blood, and the examples
With your fair honours. You, Lord Archbishop,
Within the fore-rank of our articles.
Without defeat. Therefore to France, my liege.
Without impeachment; for, to say the sooth-
Without more help, could fight this royal battle!
Without much fall of blood; whose guiltless drops
Witness our too much memorable shame
Wonder to wait on treason and on murder;
Work, work your thoughts, and therein see a siege;
Working so grossly in a natural cause
Would have him punish'd. And now to our French causes:
Would he abuse the countenance of the king,
Would it were day!
Would lift him where most trade of danger rang'd;
Would men observingly distil it out;
Would of that seed grow to a greater falseness;
Would shut the book and sit him down and die.
Would turn their own perfection to abuse
Would, by beholding him, have wash'd his knife
Wouldst thou have practis'd on me for thy use-
Wounding supposed peace. All these bold fears
Wounds will I lend the French instead of eyes,
Wrested his meaning and authority.
Yea, every idle, nice, and wanton reason,
Yea, for my sake, even to the eyes of Richard
Yea, strike the Dauphin blind to look on us.
Yerk out their armed heels at their dead masters,
Yet did you say 'Go forth'; and none of this,
Yet not so sound and half so deeply sweet
Yet notwithstanding, being incens'd, he is flint;
Yet that is but a crush'd necessity,
Yet the first bringer of unwelcome news
Yet their own authors faithfully affirm
Yet weep that Harry's dead, and so will I;
Yet, God before, tell him we will come on,
Yet, for your part, it not appears to me,
Yet, though thou stand'st more sure than I could do,
Yields his engrossments to the ending father.
Yoke-fellow to his honour-owing wounds,
Yond island carrions, desperate of their bones,
Yonder he comes; and that arrant malmsey-nose knave, Bardolph,
You Dukes of Orleans, Bourbon, and of Berri,
You are assembled; and my speech entreats
You are disputing of your generals:
You are their heir; you sit upon their throne;
You are too much mistaken in this king.
You are, I think, assur'd I love you not.
You cannot revel into dukedoms there.
You cast th' event of war, my noble lord,
You have congreeted, let it not disgrace me
You have conspir'd against our royal person,
You have, enschedul'd briefly, in your hands.
You knew he walk'd o'er perils on an edge,
You know how apt our love was to accord
You know your places. God be with you all!
You may imagine him upon Blackheath;
You must not dare, for shame, to talk of mercy;
You patience to endure, and true repentance
You see this chase is hotly followed, friends.
You shall be as a father to my youth;
You shall enjoy them, everything set off
You should have been well on your way to York.
You should have won them dearer than you have.
You show great mercy if you give him life,
You stand in coldest expectation.
You stand upon the rivage and behold
You were advis'd his flesh was capable
You won it, wore it, kept it, gave it me;
You would drink freely; but my love to ye
You, reverend father, and these noble lords,
Your Highness bade me ask for it to-day.
Your Highness knows, comes to no further use
Your Highness pleased to forget my place,
Your Highness, lately sending into France,
Your Majesty hath been this fortnight ill;
Your Majesty hath no just cause to hate me.
Your brother thus; so fought the noble Douglas'-
Your crown and kingdom, indirectly held
Your exposition on the holy text
Your eyes, which hitherto have home in them,
Your fathers taken by the silver beards,
Your fresh fair virgins and your flow'ring infants.
Your greeting is from him, not from the King.
Your mightiness on both parts best can witness.
Your naked infants spitted upon pikes,
Your noble and right well-rememb'red father's?
Your pens to lances, and your tongue divine
Your shoes is not so good. 'Tis a good silling, I warrant you, or
Your spirit is too true, your fears too certain.
[Exit BARDOLPH]  Come, Pistol, utter more to me; and withal
[Exit SHALLOW]  Bardolph, look to our horses.  [Exeunt BARDOLPH
[One knocks at door]  Look who's at door there, ho! Who knocks?
[To WARWICK]  You, cousin Nevil, as I may remember-
[To the PAGE]  And welcome, my tall fellow. Come, Sir John.
a bachelor. How answer you, la plus belle Katherine du monde, mon
a beard of the General's cut and a horrid suit of the camp will
a beast, to bear every knave's wrong.
a better wench in England. Go, wash thy face, and draw the
a bona-roba. Doth she hold her own well?
a cold soldier.
a coward; but his few bad words are match'd with as few good
a cup of sack; do you discharge upon mine hostess.
a death. I'll ne'er bear a base mind. An't be my destiny, so;
a face-royal, for a barber shall never earn sixpence out of it;
a good scholar; he is at Oxford still, is he not?
a health for that anon.
a man or two lately kill'd about her.
a naked blind boy in her naked seeing self? It were, my lord, a
a poor whore's ruff in a bawdy-house? He a captain! hang him,
a thousand marks, let him lend me the money, and have at him. For
abide looking on.
about and about, and come you in and come you in. 'Rah, tah,
about it?
abundance, and the lightness of his wife shines through it; and
acquaintance are dead!
acquaintance be renewed. Peradventure I will with ye to the
action is call'd on. Farewell, good wenches. If I be not sent
action. Come, thou must not be in this humour with me; dost not
active fellow in Europe. My womb, my womb, my womb undoes me.
affections are higher mounted than ours, yet, when they stoop,
affections, and your appetites, and your digestions, does not
affirm it.
after I saw him fumble with the sheets, and play with flowers,
after it indifferent well; for there is figures in all things.
afternoon, with a white head and something a round belly. For my
afterwards DUKE OF YORK
again, and then I will tell him a little piece of my desires.
again, sir- shall we sow the headland with wheat?
against Clement Perkes o' th' hill.
against all proportion of subjection.
against them.
agree with it, I would desire you to eat it.
alewife's new petticoat, and so peep'd through.
all at commandment. Then was Jack Falstaff, now Sir John, boy,
all bubukles, and whelks, and knobs, and flames o' fire; and his
all the riches I got in his service.
all; but I would fain see it once, an please God of his grace
almanac to that?
alone, howsoever you speak this, to feel other men's minds;
alone. My old dame will be undone now for one to do her husbandry
am a hawk. He trots the air; the earth sings when he touches it;
am afeard there are few die well that die in a battle; for how
am an old man, you should give me rest. I would to God my name
am glad to see your lordship abroad. I heard say your lordship
am gone; and she is old, and cannot help herself. You shall have
an agate till now; but I will inset you neither in gold nor
an aspect of iron, that when I come to woo ladies I fright them.
an ass, and a fool, and a prating coxcomb? In your own
an ill name.' Now 'a said so, I can tell whereupon. 'For' says he
an't be not, so. No man's too good to serve 's Prince; and, let
and 'a said it was a black soul burning in hell?
and Bullcalf.
and I do believe your Majesty takes no scorn to wear the leek
and PAGE]  If I were sawed into quantities, I should make four
and a half, that it would have done a man's heart good to see.
and blind. Can you blame her, then, being a maid yet ros'd over
and call it purchase. Bardolph stole a lute-case, bore it twelve
and call it what you will.
and cry all 'We died at such a place'- some swearing, some crying
and discharge you with the motion of a pewterer's hammer, come
and galling at this gentleman twice or thrice. You thought,
and gipes, and knaveries, and mocks; I have forgot his name.
and he holds his place, for look you how he writes.
and he that I gave it to in change promis'd to wear it in his
and henceforth let a Welsh correction teach you a good English
and her drudgery. You need not to have prick'd me; there are
and his wraths, and his cholers, and his moods, and his
and inconstant, and mutability, and variation; and her foot, look
and lechery; but the gout galls the one, and the pox pinches the
and makes it course from the inwards to the parts extremes. It
and my pension shall seem the more reasonable. A good wit will
and my waist slenderer.
and not a tongue of them all speaks any other word but my name.
and one of the King's justices of the peace. What is your good
and outrun native punishment, though they can outstrip men they
and page to Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk.
and say, after to-morrow, 'This is my glove,' by this hand I will
and sit like a jack-an-apes, never off. But, before God, Kate, I
and smile upon his fingers' end, I knew there was but one way;
and stuff me out with straw. I beseech you, good Sir John, let me
and talks as familiarly of John a Gaunt as if he had been sworn
and the sobriety of it, and the modesty of it, to be otherwise.
and welcome indeed too. I'll drink to Master Bardolph, and to all
and when I cannot live any longer, I will do as I may. That is my
and yet he'll be crowing as if he had writ man ever since his
another leek in my pocket which you shall eat.
another's throats?
another; the weight of a hair will turn the scales between their
answer; i' faith, do; and so clap hands and a bargain. How say
any from mine that might offend your Majesty.
any that treads but on four pasterns. Ca, ha! he bounds from the
anything indeed too, and roundly too. There was I, and little
ape.
appearance of fear, lest he, by showing it, should dishearten his
appelez-vous le pied et la robe?
apprehensive, quick, forgetive, full of nimble, fiery, and
approach of day.
approve my youth further, I will not. The truth is, I am only old
are arrant knaves and will backbite.
are generally fools and cowards-which some of us should be too,
are kin to the King; for they never prick their finger but they
are you become! Is't such a matter to get a pottle-pot's
argument? Now, if these men do not die well, it will be a black
armour, they could never wear such heavy head-pieces.
army.
as I have read in the chronicles, fought a most prave pattle here
as I may, and thaes the humour of it.
as any stone.
as he thinks- the most brave, valorous, and thrice-worthy
as men take diseases, one of another; therefore let men take heed
as much in his beard; he has no more directions in the true
as oft as he has occasion to name himself, even like those that
as ours are; yet, in reason, no man should possess him with any
as soundly swing'd for this- you blue-bottle rogue, you filthy
as the word 'occupy'; which was an excellent good word before it
as thou and Falstaff for obduracy and persistency: let the end
as you shall see in a summer's day. But it is very well; what he
asham'd of your Majesty, praised be Got, so long as your Majesty
ashamed to enforce a poor widow to so rough a course to come by
assemblance of a man! Give me the spirit, Master Shallow. Here's
at an ancient tradition, begun upon an honourable respect, and
at him. Let time shape, and there an end.               Exit
at our feet but a weak and worthless satisfaction. To this add
at the bridge.
athversary was have possession of the pridge; but he is enforced
attach'd one of so high blood.
attend:
aunchient prerogatifes and laws of the wars is not kept: if you
aussi droit que les natifs d'Angleterre.
avoirdupois.
avouch in your deeds any of your words? I have seen you gleeking
avouchment, that this is the glove of Alencon that your Majesty
away an it had been any christom child; 'a parted ev'n just
away post, I will see you again ere I go.
away thy cold; and I will take such order that thy friends shall
away.
ay, or go to death. And I'll pay't as valorously as I may, that
back, and the whole frame stands upon pins. Prick him no more.
badge of pusillanimity and cowardice; but the sherris warms it,
bare land, manured, husbanded, and till'd, with excellent
base, rascally, cheating, lack-linen mate! Away, you mouldy
basket-hilt stale juggler, you! Since when, I pray you, sir?
bastard, and a knave, and a rascal. What ish my nation? Who talks
be all three sworn brothers to France. Let't be so, good Corporal
be hotter! A whoreson Achitophel! A rascal-yea-forsooth knave, to
be merry.
be much at one. But, Kate, dost thou understand thus much
be nothing compell'd from the villages, nothing taken but paid
bear a gentleman in hand, and then stand upon security! The
bear crosses. Fare you well. Commend me to my cousin
bear out a knave against an honest man, I have but a very little
bear, and have their heads crush'd like rotten apples! You may as
beard? Shall we not? What say'st thou, my fair flower-de-luce?
because he could not speak English in the native garb, he could
because he hath not the gift to woo in other places; for these
bed-hangers and these fly-bitten tapestries. Let it be ten pound,
been as I took you for, I made no offence; therefore, I beseech
beeves.
before I came to Clement's Inn.
before they are married, would she say?
being in his right wits and his good judgments, turn'd away the
being near their master; if to his men, I would curry with Master
beseech you take it for your own fault, and not mine; for had you
beseech your Grace, let it be book'd with the rest of this day's
beseek you now, aggravate your choler.
beshrew my father's ambition! He was thinking of civil wars when
besides, they have burned and carried away all that was in the
better than a penny in purse. Use his men well, Davy; for they
better. And therefore tell me, most fair Katherine, will you have
between twelve and one, ev'n at the turning o' th' tide; for
bidding of a monarch, and his countenance enforces homage.
bitterness of your galls; and we that are in the vaward of our
bless mine ear withal but I will tell thee aloud 'England is
blind, with a muffler afore her eyes, to signify to you that
blindness, who cannot see many a fair French city for one fair
bloody day to somebody. But I pray God the fruit of her womb
blushing? Wherefore blush you now? What a maidenly man-at-arms
bonnet; then if ever thou dar'st acknowledge it, I will make it
boots; we'll ride all night. O sweet Pistol! Away, Bardolph!
both in purse and in person.
both my plate and the tapestry of my dining-chambers.
boy of the wicked? Or honest Bardolph, whose zeal burns in his
boy to them all three; but all they three, though they would
bragging slave! The rogue fled from me like quick-silver.
bread-chipper, and I know not what!
break thy mind to me in broken English, wilt thou have me?
bred.
brevity.'-
brother and that I am a proper fellow of my hands; and those two
brother to him; and I'll be sworn 'a ne'er saw him but once in
brought in to his answer. A hundred mark is a long one for a poor
bunches of keys at their girdles; and if a man is through with
but as a common man; witness the night, your garments, your
but boys.                                               Exit
but for inflammation. A good sherris-sack hath a two-fold
but four here, sir; and so, I pray you, go in with me to dinner.
but it was alway yet the trick of our English nation, if they
but mark the countenance that he will give me.
but the devil outbids him too.
but you fall to some discord. You are both, i' good truth, as
butcher's wife, come in then and call me gossip Quickly? Coming
by, in his nakedness he appears but a man; and though his
call honourable boldness impudent sauciness; if a man will make
call'd Wye at Monmouth, but it is out of my prains what is the
can be offert; in your conscience, now, is it not?
can they charitably dispose of anything when blood is their
canaries; and that's a marvellous searching wine, and it perfumes
cannot abide swagg'rers.
cannot look greenly, nor gasp out my cloquence, nor I have no
cannot tell vat is baiser en Anglish.
cannot tell.
canst love me for this, take me; if not, to say to thee that I
canst speak no better English; for if thou couldst, thou wouldst
canst.
cap; I promis'd to strike him if he did; I met this man with my
captain! God's light, these villains will make the word as odious
captain, the heart, who, great and puff'd up with this retinue,
careful friend and a true subject; and thy father is to give me
case. From a prince to a prentice? A low transformation! That
ceremonies of the wars, and the cares of it, and the forms of it,
certain she's old; and had Robin Nightwork, by old Nightwork,
certain that either wise bearing or ignorant carriage is caught,
certain, and of great expedition and knowledge in th' aunchient
charg'd chambers bravely-
cheer.' So 'a cried out 'God, God, God!' three or four times. Now
chevalier, je pense, le plus brave, vaillant, et tres distingue
chin is not yet fledge. I will sooner have a beard grow in the
choose what office thou wilt in the land, 'tis thine. Pistol, I
chopp'd off in a battle, shall join together at the latter day
chops. Ah, rogue! i' faith, I love thee. Thou art as valorous as
chopt, bald shot. Well said, i' faith, Wart; th'art a good scab.
church- one Bardolph, if your Majesty know the man; his face is
coals. They would have me as familiar with men's pockets as their
cold a night as 'tis, he could wish himself in Thames up to the
cold and settled, left the liver white and pale, which is the
cold as another man's sword will; and there's an end.
come apace to the King: there is more good toward you
come, there is sauce for it.  [Striking him again]  You call'd me
comes blubber'd.- Yea, will you come, Doll?           Exeunt
commanders' names; and they will learn you by rote where services
commoners and inland petty spirits muster me all to their
companions.' There comes none here. You would bless you to hear
company, his cause being just and his quarrel honourable.
company.
conceal them. I am, sir, under the King, in some authority.
concerning the disciplines of the war, the Roman wars, in the way
condition. Fare ye well.                                Exit
confident brow, nor the throng of words that come with such more
confirmities. What the good-year! one must bear, and that must be
conjunction with the participation of society that they flock
conjure up love in her in his true likeness, he must appear naked
conquer the kingdom as to speak so much more French: I shall
conscience, la.
conscience, now?
consideration. You have, as it appears to me, practis'd upon the
convoy; who came off bravely, who was shot, who disgrac'd, what
coronation. Dispatch, dispatch.                       Exeunt
correction, there is not many of your nation-
could discern no part of his face from the window. At last I
count! Neanmoins, je reciterai une autre fois ma lecon ensemble:
court with news.
court, I take it there's but two ways- either to utter them or
court- and now has he land and beeves. Well, I'll be acquainted
court.
coxcomb, is it meet, think you, that we should also, look you, be
credit with your worship. The knave is mine honest friend, sir;
cunning in protestation; only downright oaths, which I never use
curtsy and say nothing, he is virtuous. No, my lord, my humble
cut, and works to be done; and there ish nothing done, so Chrish
d'hand, de fingre, de nails, d'arm, d'elbow, de nick, de sin, de
d'une, notre seigneur, indigne serviteur; excusez-moi, je vous
dames d'honneur d'user: je ne voudrais prononcer ces mots devant
daughter and mine, my god-daughter Ellen?
day to that day, that it is a shame to be thought on. There is no
day's service at Shrewsbury hath a little gilded over your
days that I have spent! and to see how many of my old
days: the King has kill'd his heart. Good husband, come home
de Princess.
de fingres, et de nails.
de mails-
death is to him advantage; or not dying, the time was blessedly
death they have borne life away; and where they would be safe
debuty, t' other day; and, as he said to me- 'twas no longer ago
decreasing leg, an increasing belly? Is not your voice broken,
deeds; for 'a never broke any man's head but his own, and that
deeds; or, by the Lord, I will have it in a particular ballad
deep enough; so shall you be still Colville of the Dale.
defiance; and tell him, for conclusion, he hath betrayed his
degree, and your place the Dale. Colville shall still be your
delectable shapes; which delivered o'er to the voice, the tongue,
denying me a kiss; therefore, patiently and yielding.  [Kissing
desire deliverance from these officers, being upon hasty
desire in a summer's day. Here is his Majesty.
desire small beer?
desire to see him; thinking of nothing else, putting all affairs
desires, and my requests, and my petitions, to eat, look you,
devil i' th' old play, that every one may pare his nails with a
devil; he will spare neither man, woman, nor child.
devise something to do thyself good. Boot, boot, Master Shallow!
dinner. I am glad to see you, by my troth, Master Shallow.
dinner; come, let's to dinner. Jesus, the days that we have seen!
directions.
directly to say 'I love you.' Then, if you urge me farther than
disciplines of the war; the concavities of it is not sufficient.
disciplines of the wars, look you, of the Roman disciplines, than
displeasures, and his indignations, and also being a little
disprais'd him before the wicked- that the wicked might not fall
do among foaming bottles and ale-wash'd wits is wonderful to be
do so, their fathers being so sick as yours at this time is?
do yours for upholding the nice fashion of your country in
do.
done about Turnbull Street; and every third word a lie, duer paid
done me right.
doth any deed of courage- and this valour comes of sherris. So
down the town that her eldest son is like you. She hath been in
dozen of such bearded hermits' staves as Master Shallow. It is a
dozen or fourteen gentlewomen that live honestly by the prick of
due.
dukedom. Good faith, this same young sober-blooded boy doth not
duty is the King's; but every subject's soul is his own.
duty rememb'red, I will not be your suitor. I say to you I do
duty, and my live, and my living, and my uttermost power. He is
ears of the English.
earth as if his entrails were hairs; le cheval volant, the
easy yielding spirit of this woman, and made her serve your uses
eat a leek.
eat, and none to fight. Now is it time to arm. Come, shall we
eaten to death with a rust than to be scoured to nothing with
eel-skin; the case of a treble hautboy was a mansion for him, a
elder-gun, that a poor and a private displeasure can do against a
element, which show like pins' heads to her, believe not the word
eloquence in a sugar touch of them than in the tongues of the
eloquent tongues, and my horse is argument for them all: 'tis a
else in oblivion, as if there were nothing else to be done but to
else, with mine own picture on the top on't, Colville kissing my
employment in the King's affairs.
en peu de temps.
encounter any such, apprehend him, an thou dost me love.
endeavour of drinking good and good store of fertile sherris,
ends for flap-dragons, and rides the wild mare with the boys, and
enforces.
ent'red, and my case so openly known to the world, let him be
est content a vous donner la liberte, le franchisement.
esteems himself happy that he hath fall'n into the hands of one-
ever his black shoe trod upon God's ground and his earth, in my
ever man went to Arthur's bosom. 'A made a finer end, and went
every part.
excellent stratagem.
excused.
expedition!
eyes; and then they will endure handling, which before would not
faculties 'a has, that show a weak mind and an able body, for the
fame for a pot of ale and safety.
famish'd correctioner, if you be not swing'd, I'll forswear
fanning in his face with a peacock's feather. You'll never trust
farm to buy my crown. I know no ways to mince it in love, but
fashion, and sung those tunes to the overscutch'd huswifes that
fashion; we are the makers of manners, Kate; and the liberty that
fashions, which is four terms, or two actions; and 'a shall laugh
fat knight with the great belly doublet; he was full of jests,
father is so sick; and keeping such vile company as thou art hath
father was a bachelor. He may keep his own grace, but he's almost
father's soul, the work ish ill done; it ish give over; I would
favours so much that he swears thou art to marry his sister Nell.
fear and trembling, and do observance to my mercy.
fears, as we do, his fears, out of doubt, be of the same relish
fellow of Rome-I came, saw, and overcame.
fellow of this temper, Kate, whose face is not worth sunburning,
fellow to think as every man thinks. Never a man's thought in the
fellow with the best king, thou shalt find the best king of good
fellow, and 'a would manage you his piece thus; and 'a would
fellow, look you now, of no merits- he is come to me, and prings
fellow.
fellows of infinite tongue, that can rhyme themselves into
fellows. Come, your answer in broken music- for thy voice is
felt to his knees, and so upward and upward, and all was as cold
fields. 'How now, Sir John!' quoth I 'What, man, be o' good
fighting a days and foining a nights, and begin to patch up thine
figures and comparisons of it; as Alexander kill'd his friend
fils Henri, Roi d'Angleterre, Heritier de France; and thus in
find a hole in his coat I will tell him my mind. [Drum within]
find me such a plain king that thou wouldst think I had sold my
find out Sneak's noise; Mistress Tearsheet would fain hear some
fine shoot. John a Gaunt loved him well, and betted much money on
fingers is to my fingers, and there is salmons in both. If you
fire-shovel; I knew by that piece of service the men would carry
firebrand; and therefore I call him her dream.
flattery about me, I cannot so conjure up the spirit of love in
flesh and corrupt blood, thou art welcome.
followers, whose condemnation is pronounc'd. So far my king and
follows our places stops the mouth of all find-faults- as I will
folly. Follow me, Ned.
foot, le count.
foot; to the which course if I be enforc'd, if you do not all
for a surgeon, some upon their wives left poor behind them, some
for his nose was as sharp as a pen, and 'a babbl'd of green
for if, look you, he were my brother, I would desire the Duke to
for it is plain pocketing up of wrongs. I must leave them and
for my horse is my mistress.
for that, I know not.
for the party that owed it, he might have moe diseases than he
for these foolish officers, I beseech you I may have redress
for they purpose not their death when they purpose their
for you.
for your life, to come speak with me.
for, none of the French upbraided or abused in disdainful
forbid, sir, but a knave should have some countenance at his
forlorn that his dimensions to any thick sight were invisible. 'A
form of a soldier. And such fellows are perfect in the great
forswear thin potations and to addict themselves to sack.
forth?
forty, sir.
friend's request. An honest man, sir, is able to speak for
friends with thee, Jack. Thou art going to the wars; and whether
friends.
friends; else, sir, I did not care for mine own part so much.
friendship.'
from the answer of his degree.
full fain heard some question 'tween you tway.
full of deceits?
fustian rascal.
gallant service.
gallantly maintain'd the pridge; the French is gone off, look
gentleman, i' faith.
gentler gamester is the soonest winner.
give express charge that in our marches through the country there
give me?
given, is altogether directed by an Irishman- a very vallant
glove in his cap, and I have been as good as my word.
glove, I have sworn to take him a box o' th' ear; or if I can see
gloves or their handkerchers; which makes much against my
going with Lord John of Lancaster against the Archbishop and the
good and particular mistress.
good case, and, the truth is, poverty hath distracted her. But
good command, by heaven. Accommodated: that is, when a man is, as
good cousin Silence?
good prey of us, if he knew of it; for there is none to guard it
good temperality. Your pulsidge beats as extraordinarily as heart
good, scald knave, as eat it?
good-year! do you think I would deny her? For God's sake, be
good; exceeding good. O, give me always a little, lean, old,
gooseberry. You that are old consider not the capacities of us
great belly, and he my dog.
great.
greatest admiration in the universal world, when the true and
greatness. What a disgrace is it to me to remember thy name, or
green wound and your ploody coxcomb.
green-sickness; and then, when they marry, they get wenches. They
greeting.'
grows late; we'll to bed. Thou't forget me when I am gone.
grows to me! If thou get'st any leave of me, hang me; if thou
guilt of premeditated and contrived murder; some, of beguiling
guilty of their damnation than he was before guilty of those
had as lief they would put ratsbane in my mouth as offer to stop
had said so.
had the ache in his shoulders! O, you shall see him laugh till
half-kirtles.
hand, to th' infernal deep, with Erebus and tortures vile also.
hands of him.
hands.
hard condition for a maid to consign to.
has spoke to me, that is well, I warrant you, when time is serve.
have a good thing, to make it too common. If ye will needs say I
have at the very eye of that proverb with 'A pox of the devil!'
have been fubb'd off, and fubb'd off, and fubb'd off, from this
have blowed up the town, so Chrish save me, la, in an hour. O,
have earn'd them. You a captain! you slave, for what? For tearing
have five hundred of my thousand.
have his effect of gravity.
have made a shift to eat up thy holland. And God knows whether
have no judgment. Thou whoreson mandrake, thou art fitter to be
have no wings to fly from God: war is His beadle, war is His
have not seen a hulk better stuff'd in the hold. Come, I'll be
have. He hath eaten me out of house and home; he hath put all my
he drinks no wine. There's never none of these demure boys come
he durst steal anything adventurously. I must stay with the
he got me; therefore was I created with a stubborn outside, with
he hath heard that men of few words are the best men, and
he heard the carmen whistle, and sware they were his fancies or
he is pure air and fire; and the dull elements of earth and water
he knock that about yours.
he roar again.
he will maintain his argument as well as any military man in the
he- Master Dumbe, our minister, was by then- 'Neighbour Quickly,'
head. Throw the quean in the channel.
health.
hear not what I say to you.
hearing.
hearken a' th' end.
heart with the looks of an empress; take me by the hand and say
heaven or in hell!
heavy reckoning to make when all those legs and arms and heads,
her own?
her that he will appear in his true likeness.
her to know my meaning; for maids well summer'd and warm kept are
her.
her; I'll be reveng'd of her.
her]  You have witchcraft in your lips, Kate: there is more
here half a dozen sufficient men?
here's four Harry ten shillings in French crowns for you. In very
here.
here?
high; and the very same day did I fight with one Sampson
him and make him fit to go. I cannot put him to a private
him for it; and the young lion repents- marry, not in ashes and
him, Kate.
him.
him. I once writ a sonnet in his praise and began thus: 'Wonder
him; by this sword, I will.
himself, when a knave is not. I have serv'd your worship truly,
his boots very smooth, like unto the sign of the Leg, and breeds
his brother?
his face be like a wet cloak ill laid up!
his face is Lucifer's privy-kitchen, where he doth nothing but
his good-nights. And now is this Vice's dagger become a squire,
his head. Dead! 'A would have clapp'd i' th' clout at twelve
his table as drawers.
his wickedness, by your rule, should be imposed upon his father
his word after! Come, 'tis a foolish saying.
home with me.
honesty in such dealing; unless a woman should be made an ass and
horse and armour?
horse.
horses: the laws of England are at my commandment. Blessed are
hostess- he is very sick, and would to bed. Good Bardolph, put
hostess; farewell, Doll. You see, my good wenches, how men of
hot day, and I brandish anything but a bottle, I would I might
hot; that is the very plain-song of it.
house, and for his ransom he will give you two hundred crowns.
house, and that most beastly. In good faith, 'a cares not what
humbly beseech your lordship to have a reverend care of your
hundred paces of your tents.
husband's neck, hardly to be shook off. Je quand sur le
i' faith, I am loath to pawn my plate, so God save me, la!
if thou canst. Come, and 'twere not for thy humours, there's not
ill angel.
illumineth the face, which, as a beacon, gives warning to all the
impieties for the which they are now visited. Every subject's
in France.
in Galen; it is a kind of deafness.
in his bed- wash every mote out of his conscience; and dying so,
in his belly: hold, there is twelve pence for you; and I pray you
in judgment and understanding; and he that will caper with me for
in love with thee; in which doing, I have done the part of a
in reason taken from me all ostentation of sorrow.
in robustious and rough coming on, leaving their wits with their
in this form and with this addition, in French, Notre tres cher
in to borrow a mess of vinegar, telling us she had a good dish of
indeed a scruple itself.
indeed these humble considerations make me out of love with my
indited to dinner to the Lubber's Head in Lumbert Street, to
infamy.
infinitive thing upon my score. Good Master Fang, hold him sure.
into a justice-like serving-man. Their spirits are so married in
intoxicates in his prains, did, in his ales and his angers, look
is a friend to Alencon and an enemy to our person; if thou
is a puppy-dog.
is an aunchient Lieutenant there at the bridge- I think in my
is an honest man.
is give me; in your conscience, now.
is hot, and the weather, and the wars, and the King, and the
is incurable. Go bear this letter to my Lord of Lancaster; this
is no English treason to cut French crowns, and to-morrow the
is soon shot.'
is the disease of not listening, the malady of not marking, that
is the humour of it.
is thine'; who, though I speak it before his face, if he be not
is to come halting off; you know, to come off the breach with his
it a-work; and learning, a mere hoard of gold kept by a devil
it go which way it will, he that dies this year is quit for the
it in thy cap; when Alencon and myself were down together, I
it shines bright and never changes, but keeps his course truly.
it that Prince Harry is valiant; for the cold blood he did
it were not sin to think that, making God so free an offer, He
it with security. I look'd 'a should have sent me two and twenty
it worse than the name of rebellion can tell how to make it.
je m'estime heureux que je suis tombe entre les mains d'un
je suis le bon ecolier; j'ai gagne deux mots d'Anglais vitement.
je vous donnerai deux cents ecus.
join not in a hot day; for, by the Lord, I take but two shirts
joint.
jordan.  [Exit FRANCIS]- [Singing]  'And was a worthy king'- How
jumps upon join'd-stools, and swears with a good grace, and wears
justice Shallow. Lord, Lord, how subject we old men are to this
keeps the bridge most valiantly, with excellent discipline. There
kern of Ireland, your French hose off and in your strait
kickshaws, tell William cook.
kind fellow, gavest thyself away gratis; and I thank thee for
kingdom; but the midwives say the children are not in the fault;
knew for.
knew yet but rebuke and check was the reward of valour. Do you
knight and I have seen! Ha, Sir John, said I well?
knighthood and my soldiership aside, I had lied in my throat if I
knives have edges. It must be as it may; though patience be a
knock you indifferently well. If you grow foul with me, Pistol, I
knocking at the door!
know it; I will confess it to all the 'orld: I need not be
know me? Come, come, I know thou wast set on to this.
know, Kate, you will to her dispraise those parts in me that you
knowest Sir John cannot endure an apple-john.
knowledge!
lackeys, with the luggage of our camp. The French might have a
ladies' favours, they do always reason themselves out again.
lady at leap-frog, or by vaulting into my saddle with my armour
lady thy wife. Canst thou deny it? Did not goodwife Keech, the
laments,
langage.
language; for when lenity and cruelty play for a kingdom the
last night; who, if 'a live and ever dare to challenge this
law of arms; 'tis as arrant a piece of knavery, mark you now, as
lead!
leader.
leagues, and sold it for three halfpence. Nym and Bardolph are
leave thee. Be not too familiar with Poins; for he misuses thy
leek? There is not enough leek to swear by.
leeks did grow, wearing leeks in their Monmouth caps; which your
leg will fall; a straight back will stoop; a black beard will
les seigneurs de France pour tout le monde. Foh! le foot et le
let him outlive that day to see His greatness, and to teach
let me see, what then? Saint Denis be my speed!- donc votre est
let thine eye be thy cook. I speak to thee plain soldier. If thou
level at the edge of a penknife. And, for a retreat- how swiftly
like a parrot.
like flies at Bartholomew-tide, blind, though they have their
like foolish justices: he, by conversing with them, is turned
liked.
likeliest men, and I would have you serv'd with the best.
liking his father to singing-man of Windsor- thou didst swear to
linen with thee when thou keepest not racket there; as thou hast
lip of a lion.
lips blows at his nose, and it is like a coal of fire, sometimes
literatured in the wars.
little regard in these costermongers' times that true valour is
lone woman to bear; and I have borne, and borne, and borne; and
look you, I warrant you.
look you- is digt himself four yard under the countermines; by
lordship may minister the potion of imprisonment to me in respect
lordship, though not clean past your youth, hath yet some smack
lost the other day at Hinckley fair?
lost wherein such preparation was gained; and in him that escapes
love her; and that is good English.
love me; nor a man cannot make him laugh- but that's no marvel;
love with your heart. But, good Kate, mock me mercifully; the
lovest me; yet my blood begins to flatter me that thou dost,
low degree. I pray you fall to; if you can mock a leek, you can
lowliness; and what your Highness suffer'd under that shape I
magnanimous mouse. Prick the woman's tailor- well, Master
maidenhead?
make thee wrong this virtuous gentlewoman to close with us? Is
make use of anything. I will turn diseases to commodity.
making many fish-meals, that they fall into a kind of male
mallet.
man of no estimation in the world; but I did see him do as
man that I love and honour with my soul, and my heart, and my
man yet that shall make you great.
man, as the malice of this age shapes them, are not worth a
man-queller and a woman-queller.
manhood, if I should take from another's pocket to put into mine;
mann'd, hors'd, and wiv'd.
manner of wrenching the true cause the false way. It is not a
many irreconcil'd iniquities, you may call the business of the
many is kill'd?
mark Alexander's life well, Harry of Monmouth's life is come
married to Pistol
marry, sir. Rafe Mouldy! Let them appear as I call; let them do
marry.
marshal's men. I saw it, and told John a Gaunt he beat his own
marvellous foul linen.
master the author of the servant's damnation. But this is not so:
master, for a jewel- the juvenal, the Prince your master, whose
master; so much my office.
matter for the King that led them to it; who to disobey were
may call beasts.
may stroke him as gently as a puppy greyhound. He'll not swagger
me an hypocrite indeed. And what accites your most worshipful
me even now before this honest, virtuous, civil gentlewoman!
me pread and salt yesterday, look you, and bid me eat my leek; it
me see, let me see, let me see. So, so, so, so,- so, so- yea,
me the way to my will.
me then, as I was washing thy wound, to marry me and make me my
me thou shalt, I get thee with scambling, and thou must therefore
me thus, Ned? Must I marry your sister?
me, look you, a few disputations with you, as partly touching or
me. I am not only witty in myself, but the cause that wit is in
me; all his senses have but human conditions; his ceremonies laid
me? Put off your maiden blushes; avouch the thoughts of your
means whereof 'a breaks words and keeps whole weapons. For Nym,
measure, yet a reasonable measure in strength. If I could win a
meat, we'll have in drink. But you must bear; the heart's all.
meilleur que l'Anglais lequel je parle.
merchandise do sinfully miscarry upon the sea, the imputation of
merit are sought after; the undeserver may sleep, when the man of
methinks I could not die anywhere so contented as in the King's
mettle.
mine and I am yours, then yours is France and you are mine.
mine own part I have not a case of lives. The humour of it is too
mine own part, sir, I do not care; but rather because I am
miscarry!
miscarry, thou wert better thou hadst struck thy mother, thou
mischance.
mischief he does, if his weapon be out; he will foin like any
mistress.
monarch! You may as well go about to turn the sun to ice with
more honour some were away.
more separate age and covetousness than 'a can part young limbs
more than will do me good, for no man's pleasure, I.
most contagious treason come to light, look you, as you shall
most sage damoiselle dat is en France.
mouldy lack use. Very singular good! In faith, well said, Sir
music and thy English broken; therefore, Queen of all, Katherine,
music.
must be blind too.
must hence, and leave it unpick'd.  [Knocking within]  More
must live among my neighbours; I'll no swaggerers. I am in good
my Dolphin chamber, at the round table, by a sea-coal fire, upon
my comfort is, that old age, that in layer-up of beauty, can do
my father is sick; albeit I could tell to thee- as to one it
my glove in his cap- which he swore, as he was a soldier, he
my greatness to acknowledge it. Doth it not show vilely in me to
my mind, as touching the direction of the military discipline,
my mistress.
my pure and immaculate valour, taken Sir John Colville of the
my quarrel.
my service for any other reason than to set me off, why then I
nails, d'arma, de bilbow.
name and fame with the very best. Shut the door. There comes no
name of the other river; but 'tis all one, 'tis alike as my
name, a traitor your degree, and the dungeon your place- a place
name, apprehend him: he's a friend of the Duke Alencon's.
name; for you might have thrust him and all his apparel into an
naturally inherit of his father, he hath, like lean, sterile, and
neck; and so I would he were, and I by him, at all adventures, so
needs prove a good soldier-breeder. Shall not thou and I, between
never a man, but one that is like to be executed for robbing a
never appear in him, but only in patient stillness while his
never be day? I will trot to-morrow a mile, and my way shall be
never move thee in French, unless it be to laugh at me.
never spit white again. There is not a dangerous action can peep
next.
night! Comets, importing change of times and states,
night's exploit on Gadshill. You may thank th' unquiet time for
no bate with telling of discreet stories; and such other gambol
no more spoil upon my face; thou hast me, if thou hast me, at the
noces, il n'est pas la coutume de France.
none.
nor no cheater; but I do not love swaggering, by my troth. I am
nose, of the wicked?
not amount to a man. For Bardolph, he is white-liver'd and
not be excus'd. Why, Davy!
not bid me remember mine end.
not done a great while, because the rest of thy low countries
not fight; but I will wink and hold out mine iron. It is a simple
not him. Though that be sick, it dies not.
not know of it. Bardolph hath brought word.
not therefore handle an English cudgel; you find it otherwise,
not to remember, not to have patience to shift me-
not, Master Bardolph?
not- God be praised and blessed!- any hurt in the world, but
not.
nothing. 'Tis shame for us all, so God sa' me, 'tis shame to
notwithstanding the poor and untempering effect of my visage. Now
now promise, Kate, you will endeavour for your French part of
now, Mistress Doll!
now, his reputation is as arrant a villain and a Jacksauce as
now- a bawd, a cutpurse.
number of shadows fill up the muster-book.
o'ershine you as much as the full moon doth the cinders of the
o'erthrown.
oath, and a jest with a sad brow will do with a fellow that never
obedience to the King wipes the crime of it out of us.
occasion to write for matter of grant, shall name your Highness
of age in you, some relish of the saltness of time; and I most
of apple-johns before him, and told him there were five more Sir
of argument, look you, and friendly communication; partly to
of bullocks at Stamford fair?
of caraways, and so forth. Come, cousin Silence. And then to bed.
of it.
of it: Fortune is an excellent moral.
of my mouth ere it is made and finished. I speak but in the
of my nation?
of nature'-
of poverty; but how I should be your patient to follow your
of the helmet of Alencon.
of the noble. Therefore let me have right, and let desert mount.
of the wise sit in the clouds and mock us. Is your master here in
of their company. I will devise matter enough out of this Shallow
of these six dry, round, old, withered knights.' It ang'red him
of this land-service, I did not come.
of thy lovers, and they weep for thy death; therefore rouse up
of your ears; and I care not if I do become your physician.
off and on swifter than he that gibbets on the brewer's bucket.
off the next tide.
old body for heaven?
old motion, the expedition of thought? I have speeded hither with
on her; so the maid that stood in the way for my wish shall show
on my back, under the correction of bragging be it spoken, I
on, hook on.
one for superfluity, and another for use! But that the
one, it is worse shame to beg than to be on the worst side, were
one; but what though? It will toast cheese, and it will endure
operation in it. It ascends me into the brain; dries me there all
or bound my horse for her favours, I could lay on like a butcher,
or else you may be marvellously mistook.
or the mighty, or the huge, or the magnanimous, are all one
other men fitter to go out than I.
other men. I do here walk before thee like a sow that hath
other; and so both the degrees prevent my curses. Boy!
others how they should prepare.
ought to be used.
oui, de fingres.
out again, or I will ride thee a nights like a mare.
out his head but I am thrust upon it. Well, I cannot last ever;
out of mine, I can assure him. What said Master Dommelton about
out with me, and I mean not to sweat extraordinarily. If it be a
out.
out.
overwhelm'd all her litter but one. If the Prince put thee into
own ears. The worst that they can say of me is that I am a second
own head- the King is not to answer for it.
palfrey. It is a theme as fluent as the sea: turn the sands into
palm of my hand than he shall get one off his cheek; and yet he
pantler; 'a would ha' chipp'd bread well.
paper-fac'd villain.
pardonner! Je suis gentilhomme de bonne maison. Gardez ma vie, et
parler. Comment appelez-vous la main en Anglais?
part about you blasted with antiquity? And will you yet call
particularities.
patient here.
paved with English faces.
payment into plows, I warrant you.
peace.
peach-colour'd ones- or to bear the inventory of thy shirts- as,
peat his pate four days. Bite, I pray you, it is good for your
peradventure than is in your knowledge to dream of.
perceiv'd the first white hair of my chin. About it; you know
performance?
perpetual motion.
perturbation of the brain. I have read the cause of his effects
pettiness would bow under. For our losses his exchequer is too
philosopher's two stones to me. If the young dace be a bait for
phrase of war, which they trick up with new-tuned oaths; and what
phrases are surely, and ever were, very commendable.
pibble-pabble in Pompey's camp; I warrant you, you shall find the
pike bent bravely, and to surgery bravely; to venture upon the
plain and uncoined constancy; for he perforce must do thee right,
please your lordship, a kind of sleeping in the blood, a whoreson
pleases me, for fault of a better, to call my friend- I could be
pleasure with me?
pless you!
plood out of your pody, I can tell you that. Got pless it and
plough-irons.
pluck'd this glove from his helm. If any man challenge this, he
plue and sometimes red; but his nose is executed and his fire's
poor widow of Eastcheap, and he is arrested at my suit.
poor; for th' effusion of our blood, the muster of his kingdom
possession de France, et quand vous avez le possession de moi-
prate to me of the wildness of his youth and the feats he hath
prawns, whereby thou didst desire to eat some, whereby I told
pray'd,
pray, all you that kiss my Lady Peace at home, that our armies
pray, in your good report.
prescriptions, the wise may make some dram of a scruple, or
presently.                            Exeunt HOSTESS and BOY
presents no mark to the enemy; the foeman may with as great aim
preserve it as long as it pleases his Grace and his Majesty too!
prick'd you. Wilt thou make as many holes in an enemy's battle as
pridge.
prisonnier, neamnoins, pour les ecus que vous l'avez promis, il
proportion the losses we have borne, the subjects we have lost,
proverb so little kin to the purpose.
purse; borrowing only lingers and lingers it out, but the disease
qualite.
quarrels, and dissensions, and, I warrant you, it is the better
quiet.
quit you with gud leve, as I may pick occasion; that sall I,
quoits well, and eats conger and fennel, and drinks off candles'
ransomed, and a many poor men's lives saved.
rascally, scald, beggarly, lousy, pragging knave, Pistol- which
rascals that ran from the battle ha' done this slaughter;
rashness. Tell him we could have rebuk'd him at Harfleur, but
rather, gentle Princess, because I love thee cruelly. If ever
ready as a borrower's cap: 'I am the King's poor cousin, sir.'
reasonable great; marry, for my part, I think the Duke hath lost
rebels need soldiers? Though it be a shame to be on any side but
reckonings, save the phrase is a little variations.
red-fac'd; by the means whereof 'a faces it out, but fights not.
rememb'red of it, the Welshmen did good service in garden where
remember at Mile-end Green, when I lay at Clement's Inn- I was
remember so weak a composition.
resistance. Call him up, drawer.
respects, I grant, I cannot go- I cannot tell. Virtue is of so
rest of this little kingdom, man, to arm; and then the vital
rest, that is the rendezvous of it.
return, I will fetch off these justices. I do see the bottom of
rheumatic as two dry toasts; you cannot one bear with another's
rheumatic, and talk'd of the Whore of Babylon.
rider mounts him; he is indeed a horse, and all other jades you
ring for thee. Is here all?
ringing in the King's affairs upon his coronation day, sir.
ripe. Now we speak upon our cue, and our voice is imperial:
roast malt-worms. For the boy- there is a good angel about him;
rogue! He lives upon mouldy stew'd prunes and dried cakes. A
rogue, away! I am meat for your master.
rolls. In good truth, the poet makes a most excellent description
rose, in good truth, la! But, i' faith, you have drunk too much
rude prince, and you took it like a sensible lord. I have check'd
sa' me, la.
sackcloth, but in new silk and old sack.
sad and sad indeed too.
sall I suerly do, that is the breff and the long. Marry, I wad
sall find, in the comparisons between Macedon and Monmouth, that
same whoreson apoplexy.
satisfy my opinion, and partly for the satisfaction, look you, of
saucy cuttle with me. Away, you bottle-ale rascal! you
say 'There's some of the King's blood spilt.' 'How comes that?'
says he 'receive those that are civil, for' said he 'you are in
says he that takes upon him not to conceive. The answer is as
score and odd posts; and here, travel tainted as I am, have, in
score, and carried you a forehand shaft a fourteen and fourteen
security.
see him.
seek some better service; their villainy goes against my weak
seem thus to the world. Fear not your advancements; I will be the
seem'd dead we did but sleep; advantage is a better soldier than
seigneur d'Angleterre.
sent for you.
serve me, could not be man to me; for indeed three such antics do
serve, there shall be smiles- but that shall be as it may. I dare
services. Besides, there is no king, be his cause never so
serving-man and your husband.
shall be a woodmonger, and buy nothing of me but cudgels. God bye
shall be mine; for in everything the purpose must weigh with the
shall die is true- but for thy love, by the Lord, no; yet I love
shall have whipping-cheer enough, I warrant her. There hath been
shall have wrong.
shall never see the end of it. Who goes there?
shall not be admitted; there is no excuse shall serve; you shall
she of the wicked? Is thine hostess here of the wicked? Or is thy
shillings? I put thee now to thy book-oath. Deny it, if thou
shook your back.
short-legg'd hens, a joint of mutton, and any pretty little tiny
should fight withal, if he be alive.
should quickly leap into wife. Or if I might buffet for my love,
should talk so idly! Tell me, how many good young princes would
show doth better; this doth infer the zeal I had to see him.
show like gilt twopences to me, and I, in the clear sky of fame,
sick.
signieur of England.
signify to you, which is the moral of it, that she is turning,
silver, but in vile apparel, and send you back again to your
sir, do you mean to stop any of William's wages about the sack he
sir, or shall I sweat for you? If I do sweat, they are the drops
sir, this eight years; an I cannot once or twice in a quarter
slaves,
sleeping wolf.
slomber, ay'll de gud service, or I'll lig i' th' grund for it;
smooth; so that, having neither the voice nor the heart of
so I shall catch the fly, your cousin, in the latter end, and she
so indeed; but much of the father's substance!
so, let them do so. Let me see; where is Mouldy?
soldat ici est dispose tout a cette heure de couper votre gorge.
soldier keep his oath?
soldier to cut his prisoner's throat. O, 'tis a gallant King!
soldier, that is the leader of so many thousands. Let that
soldier; take a soldier, take a king. And what say'st thou, then,
soldiers, the father of his son, nor the master of his servant;
soldiers?
soldiership aside; and give me leave to tell you you in your
some humours and careers.
son mauvais, corruptible, gros, et impudique, et non pour les
souls. For th' other- I owe her money; and whether she be damn'd
souviendrai. Les doigts? Je pense qu'ils sont appeles de fingres;
sovereign to ride on; and for the world- familiar to us and
spare men, and spare me the great ones. Put me a caliver into
spied his eyes; and methought he had made two holes in the
spirits and his. They, by observing of him, do bear themselves
spotless, if it come to the arbitrement of swords, can try it out
stand my friend. She has nobody to do anything about her when I
stand still; it is shame, by my hand; and there is throats to be
stars.
still.
still.
stockings thou hast- viz., these, and those that were thy
stomach, and therefore I must cast it up.               Exit
straight. [Nym draws] O well-a-day, Lady, if he be not drawn! Now
strengthened.
stroke I'll run him up to the hilts, as I am a soldier.
strong, and of good friends.
strossers.
subject for a sovereign to reason on, and for a sovereign's
substance into that fat belly of his. But I will have some of it
such a boy; and for my English moiety take the word of a king and
such poor people, saying that ere long they should call me madam?
sufferance. Bid him therefore consider of his ransom, which must
suffice, most forcible Feeble.
supplie, mon tres puissant seigneur.
swagg'rer comes not in my doors. I was before Master Tisick, the
swaggerers here.
swaggerers here; I have not liv'd all this while to have
swaggering now. Shut the door, I pray you.
sweat'st! Come, let me wipe thy face. Come on, you whoreson
swinge-bucklers in all the Inns of Court again. And I may say to
sworn brothers in filching, and in Calais they stole a
tah!' would 'a say; 'Bounce!' would 'a say; and away again would
tak'st leave, thou wert better be hang'd. You hunt counter.
take soldiers up in counties as you go.
take thee a box on the ear.
tap, and so part fair.
taught them me. This is the right fencing grace, my lord; tap for
tell your Majesty the Duke is a prave man.
tell.
temp'ring between my finger and my thumb, and shortly will I seal
temper would endure this tempest of exclamation? Are you not
ten pounds.
tennis-court-keeper knows better than I; for it is a low ebb of
terms the enemy stood on; and this they con perfectly in the
th' effect of your reputation, and satisfy the poor woman.
th' shoulder.
than Wednesday last, i' good faith!- 'Neighbour Quickly,' says
than a general petition of monarchs. Here comes your father.
than impudent sauciness from you, can thrust me from a level
than the Nine Worthies. Ah, villain!
thanks for it. No abuse, Hal; none, Ned, none; no, faith, boys,
that I might have thee hang'd. Thou hast drawn my shoulder out of
that I might see.
that are written down old with all the characters of age? Have
that are young; you do measure the heat of our livers with the
that he is become very hot and valiant. If I had a thousand sons,
that he keep his vow and his oath; if he be perjur'd, see you
that intends to laughter, more than I invent or is invented on
that is the point.
that it is most lamentable to behold. Sweet men, come to him.
that looks upon me will take me without weighing. And yet in some
that never looks in his glass for love of anything he sees there,
that sent him; or if a servant, under his master's command
that skill in the weapon is nothing without sack, for that sets
that war hath never ent'red.
that we thought not good to bruise an injury till it were full
that, my poor virtue, grant that.
that. If you would conjure in her, you must make a circle; if
the German hunting, in water-work, is worth a thousand of these
the King is not bound to answer the particular endings of his
the Tiltyard; and then he burst his head for crowding among the
the basest horn of his hoof is more musical than the pipe of
the bed and felt them, and they were as cold as any stone; then I
the blood ere one can say 'What's this?' How do you now?
the box of the ear that the Prince gave you- he gave it like a
the cabileros about London.
the disciplines of war; and there is an end.          Exeunt
the diseases, Doll. We catch of you, Doll, we catch of you; grant
the disgrace we have digested; which, in weight to re-answer, his
the first humane principle I would teach them should be to
the foolish and dull and crudy vapours which environ it; makes it
the foul-mouth'dst rogue in England.
the hearts of his subjects. I would fain see the man that has but
the lark to the lodging of the lamb, vary deserved praise on my
the man is dead that you and Pistol beat amongst you.
the man that he would gladly make show to the world he is; if I
the old pike, I see no reason in the law of nature but I may snap
the pioneers given o'er?
the satin for my short cloak and my slops?
the saying is true- the empty vessel makes the greatest sound.
the situations, look you, is both alike. There is a river in
the son of the King nearest his father, Harry Prince of Wales,
the sun and the moon; or, rather, the sun, and not the moon- for
the town's name where Alexander the Pig was born?
the trompet sound the retreat. By my hand, I swear, and my
the very extremest inch of possibility; I have found'red nine
the wars to grace himself, at his return into London, under the
the worse when one says 'swagger.' Feel, masters, how I shake;
thee between a pair of sheets.
thee they were ill for green wound? And didst thou not, when she
thee too. And while thou liv'st, dear Kate, take a fellow of
thee, I can assure thee that. 'A will not out, 'a; 'tis true
thee.
their bulwark, that have before gored the gentle bosom of peace
their mastiffs are of unmatchable courage.
their needles, but it will be thought we keep a bawdy-house
them all.
them in honest taking-up, then they must stand upon security. I
then I know how to handle you.
then Sir Dagonet in Arthur's show- there was a little quiver
there is any martial law in the world.
there not employment? Doth not the King lack subjects? Do not the
there was no need to trouble himself with any such thoughts yet.
therefore he scorns to say his prayers lest 'a should be thought
therefore, I beseech you, let him be countenanc'd.
they do.
they may have their throats about them at that time; and some say
they perish. Then if they die unprovided, no more is the King
they say, accommodated; or, when a man is being-whereby 'a may be
they stoop with the like wing. Therefore, when he sees reason of
they that have been my friends; and woe to my Lord Chief Justice!
they will beat us, for they bear them on their shoulders; but it
they will eat like wolves and fight like devils.
they will put on two of our jerkins and aprons; and Sir John must
they'll come in straight.
thine, Ireland is thine, France is thine, and Henry Plantagenet
things, I confess, I cannot help. By the mass, here comes
things. I will tell you, ass my friend, Captain Gower: the
think he would not wish himself anywhere but where he is.
think me a swallow, an arrow, or a bullet? Have I, in my poor and
think thou wilt howl.
this foolish-compounded clay, man, is not able to invent anything
this leek; because, look you, you do not love it, nor your
this pox! for the one or the other plays the rogue with my great
this; I shall be sent for in private to him. Look you, he must
those that bawl out of the ruins of thy linen shall inherit his
thou art now one of the greatest men in this realm.
thou beest mine, Kate, as I have a saving faith within me tells
thou damn'd tripe-visag'd rascal, an the child I now go with do
thou hast done in a woman's petticoat?
thou honeysuckle villain! wilt thou kill God's officers and the
thou wilt not, why then be enemies with me too. Prithee put up.
thou wot, wot ta? Do, do, thou rogue! do, thou hemp-seed!
thought on. But you must learn to know such slanders of the age,
thought to be accommodated; which is an excellent thing.
thought to think so?
thousand pound I borrowed of you. But 'tis no matter; this poor
throat, if you say I am any other than an honest man.
throats are cut he may be ransom'd, and we ne'er the wiser.
throw none away; the skin is good for your broken coxcomb. When
thrust at your belly.
thy face between his sheets, and do the office of a warming-pan.
till sack commences it and sets it in act and use. Hereof comes
till urg'd, nor never break for urging. If thou canst love a
tingling.
tired mare, yet she will plod. There must be conclusions. Well, I
tish ill done, tish ill done; by my hand, tish ill done!
to La Pucelle
to a merriment, if you take not the heat.
to any proof; for thin drink doth so over-cool their blood, and
to be called captain? An captains were of my mind, they would
to be eaten in thy house, contrary to the law; for the which I
to be required, look you, I will be so bold as to tell you I know
to fight lustily for him.
to him as it doth to me; the element shows to him as it doth to
to his master's old tables, his note-book, his counsel-keeper.
to keep Prince Harry in continual laughter the wearing out of six
to know thy face to-morrow, or to take note how many pair of silk
to mend your shoes. Come, wherefore should you be so pashful?
to my love? Speak, my fair, and fairly, I pray thee.
to retire, and the Duke of Exeter is master of the pridge; I can
to say 'Do you in faith?' I wear out my suit. Give me your
to serve God, and keep you out of prawls, and prabbles, and
to the Prince; this to the Earl of Westmoreland; and this to old
to the hearer than the Turk's tribute. I do remember him at
to the heart; but he hath forgot that.
to the mines; for, look you, the mines is not according to the
to you, I think the King is but a man as I am: the violet smells
to't?
to-night- are those stars or suns upon it?
toe. 'Tis no matter if I do halt; I have the wars for my colour,
together in consent, like so many wild geese. If I had a suit to
together; why the devil should we keep knives to cut one
tongue, and I thine, most truly falsely, must needs be granted to
too faint a number; and for our disgrace, his own person kneeling
too, and ambiguides.
too. 'Better accommodated!' It is good; yea, indeed, is it. Good
too. Thou didst swear to me upon a parcel-gilt goblet, sitting in
transporting a sum of money, be assailed by robbers and die in
tromperies.
troth, I do now remember the poor creature, small beer. But
troth-plight to her.
troth.
true colours, and not ourselves be seen?
truie lavee au bourbier.' Thou mak'st use of anything.
trumpet call us to the breach; and we talk and, be Chrish, do
truncheon you out, for taking their names upon you before you
truth, sir, I had as lief be hang'd, sir, as go. And yet, for
try my patience.
try the man. But I tell thee my heart bleeds inwardly that my
turn white; a curl'd pate will grow bald; a fair face will
turn'd berod; pregnancy is made a tapster, and his quick wit
turned into a maid; for they are all girdled with maiden walls
two legs that shall find himself aggrief'd at this glove, that is
unknown- to lay apart their particular functions and wonder at
unpay the villainy you have done with her; the one you may do
unto it. I will none of you.
unwilling and, for mine own part, have a desire to stay with my
upon Saint Tavy's day.
upon the debts they owe, some upon their children rawly left. I
use his good pleasure, and put him to execution; for discipline
vantage of ground to get up.
varlet. Now sit down, now sit down; come, cousin.
vengeance; so that here men are punish'd for before-breach of the
very conscience he is as valiant a man as Mark Antony; and he is
vessel.
veux point que vous abaissiez votre grandeur en baisant la main
vice of lying! This same starv'd justice hath done nothing but
village of it; I will have it all mine. And, Kate, when France is
virgins with the broken seals of perjury; some, making the wars
voice- I have lost it with hallooing and singing of anthems. To
vous m'avez appris des a present.
walls, a pretty slight drollery, or the story of the Prodigal, or
war and in the derivation of my birth, and in other
warily, fall into foul bogs. I had rather have my horse to my
wars, upon my particular knowledge of his directions. By Cheshu,
was against a post when he was drunk. They will steal anything,
was but a colour.
was called Philip of Macedon, as I take it.
was gone down stairs, desire me to be no more so familiarity with
was ill sorted. Therefore captains had need look to't.
was in a place where I could not breed no contendon with him; but
was sick; I hope your lordship goes abroad by advice. Your
was the very genius of famine; yet lecherous as a monkey, and the
wasted in giving reckonings; all the other gifts appertinent to
wax, my growth would approve the truth.
way; but I would it were morning, for I would fain be about the
we know we are the King's subjects. If his cause be wrong, our
we not Hiren here?
we shall see wilful adultery and murder committed.
we were quit here.
well say that's a valiant flea that dare eat his breakfast on the
well were some of your brags dismounted.
well! Gentlemen both, I thank you. I must a dozen mile to-night.
were done- at such and such a sconce, at such a breach, at such a
were not so terrible to the enemy as it is. I were better to be
what an arrant, rascally, beggarly, lousy knave it is; I hope
what guests you receive. Receive' says he 'no swaggering
what he said. No, I'll no swagg'rers.
what place, I pray?
when he will, 'tis not a hair amiss yet. He may keep it still at
where to find me.  [Exit PAGE]  A pox of this gout! or, a gout of
whereupon the world increases, and kindreds are mightily
which is the birth, becomes excellent wit. The second property of
which the Prince admits him. For the Prince himself is such
who knew it.
whole Lent?
whores call'd him mandrake. 'A came ever in the rearward of the
whoreson little tidy Bartholomew boar-pig, when wilt thou leave
whoreson little valiant villain, you!
whoreson smooth-pates do now wear nothing but high shoes, and
wife.
will desire you to live in the meantime, and eat your victuals;
will double-charge thee with dignities.
will eat a last year's pippin of mine own graffing, with a dish
will hang upon my tongue like a new-married wife about her
will not stick to say his face is a face-royal. God may finish it
will scour you with my rapier, as I may, in fair terms; if you
will this Feeble, the woman's tailor, run off! O, give me the
wilt not call, beshrew thy heart. Welcome, my little tiny thief
windmill in Saint George's Field?
wine, I'll thrust my knife in your mouldy chaps, an you play the
winking.
with a Barbary hen, if her feathers turn back in any show of
with a head fantastically carved upon it with a knife. 'A was so
with all unspotted soldiers: some peradventure have on them the
with him if I return; and 't shall go hard but I'll make him a
with him. Come away.                                  Exeunt
with him. Do your offices, do your offices, Master Fang and
with my sword to be a soldier-like word, and a word of exceeding
with pillage and robbery. Now, if these men have defeated the law
with some discomfort from Wales.
with sterling money, and the other with current repentance.
with that affability as in discretion you ought to use me, look
with the virgin crimson of modesty, if she deny the appearance of
with you, if the time were convenient.
with your boots. Give me your hand, Master Bardolph.
wither; a full eye will wax hollow. But a good heart, Kate, is
without intervallums. O, it is much that a lie with a slight
wives; and then give them great meals of beef and iron and steel;
wonderful thing to see the semblable coherence of his men's
wooden dagger; and they are both hang'd; and so would this be, if
words nor measure, and for the other I have no strength in
world keeps the road-way better than thine. Every man would think
world, in the disciplines of the pristine wars of the Romans.
world, or in France, or in England!
world.
worn as a memorable trophy of predeceased valour, and dare not
worn in my cap than to wait at my heels. I was never mann'd with
worst; and thou shalt wear me, if thou wear me, better and
would desire; and your colour, I warrant you, is as red as any
would take the pains but to examine the wars of Pompey the Great,
would walk off I would prick your guts a little, in good terms,
would wear if alive- I will strike it out soundly.
yards of satin, as I am a true knight, and he sends me security.
years, come peascod-time; but an honester and truer-hearted man
yesterday mountain-squire; but I will make you to-day a squire of
yet cannot he see, though he have his own lanthorn to light him.
yield me.
yonder?
you and I cannot be confin'd within the weak list of a country's
you and yourself and all the world know to be no petter than a
you are past service; and for your part, Bullcalf, grow you come
you come from Wales?
you have but eleven now. Come, I charge you both go with me; for
you like well and bear your years very well. Welcome, good Sir
you not a moist eye, a dry hand, a yellow cheek, a white beard, a
you shall find, I warrant you, that there is no tiddle-taddle nor
you take occasions to see leeks hereafter, I pray you mock at
you we knew where the bona-robas were, and had the best of them
you well. Francis Feeble!
you were spent.
you, Captain, if you look in the maps of the 'orld, I warrant you
you, and keep you, and heal your pate.
you, and there is gallant and most prave passages. Marry, th'
you, is fixed upon a spherical stone, which rolls, and rolls, and
you, kill his best friend, Cleitus.
you, lady?
you, what thinks he of our estate?
you. You are the weaker vessel, as as they say, the emptier
you; being as good a man as yourself, both in the disciplines of
young pigeons?
your English tongue. Do you like me, Kate?
your Grace, has struck the glove which your Majesty is take out
your Highness pardon me.
your Majesty is pear me testimony and witness, and will
your closet, you'll question this gentlewoman about me; and I
your excellent sherris is the warming of the blood; which before,
your good hand, give me your worship's good hand. By my troth,
your hand, sir. An early stirrer, by the rood! And how doth my
your master?
your pate.
your quiet o'erposting that action.
your sake, Kate, why you undid me; for the one I have neither
your wind short, your chin double, your wit single, and every
yourself young? Fie, fie, fie, Sir John!
youth, must confess, are wags too.
A fearful battle rend'red you in music.
A hundred alms-houses right well supplied;
A kingdom for a stage, princes to act,
A thousand pounds by th' year: thus runs the bill.
Admit me Chorus to this history;
And generally to the crown and seat of France,
And in regard of causes now in hand,
And let us, ciphers to this great accompt,
And make imaginary puissance;
And monarchs to behold the swelling scene!
And never noted in him any study,
And so the Prince obscur'd his contemplation
And the mute wonder lurketh in men's ears
And therefore we must needs admit the means
And to the coffers of the King, beside,
And whipp'd th' offending Adam out of him,
And wholesome berries thrive and ripen best
And, all-admiring, with an inward wish
And, to relief of lazars and weak age,
Any retirement, any sequestration
Are now confin'd two mighty monarchies,
As I perceiv'd his Grace would fain have done,
As in this king.
As much as would maintain, to the King's honour,
As touching France- to give a greater sum
Assume the port of Mars; and at his heels,
Attest in little place a million;
Before the Frenchman speak a word of it.
But that his wildness, mortified in him,
But that the scambling and unquiet time
By testament have given to the church
By your own counsel is suppress'd and kill'd.
Carry them here and there, jumping o'er times,
Consideration like an angel came
Crav'd audience; and the hour, I think, is come
Crouch for employment. But pardon, gentles all,
Deriv'd from Edward, his great-grandfather.
Did push it out of farther question.
Did to his predecessors part withal.
Familiar as his garter; that, when he speaks,
For 'tis your thoughts that now must deck our kings,
For I have made an offer to his Majesty-
For all the temporal lands which men devout
From open haunts and popularity.
Full fifteen earls and fifteen hundred knights,
Gently to hear, kindly to judge, our play.               Exit
Grew like the summer grass, fastest by night,
Hear him debate of commonwealth affairs,
His companies unletter'd, rude, and shallow,
His hours fill'd up with riots, banquets, sports;
How now for mitigation of this bill
How things are perfected.
Incline to it, or no?
Into a thousand parts divide one man,
Into an hour-glass; for the which supply,
Leash'd in like hounds, should famine, sword, and fire,
Leaving his body as a paradise
List his discourse of war, and you shall hear
Must be the mistress to this theoric;
Neighbour'd by fruit of baser quality;
Never came reformation in a flood,
Never was such a sudden scholar made;
Nor never Hydra-headed wilfulnes
O, pardon! since a crooked figure may
Of his true tides to some certain dukedoms,
Of indigent faint souls, past corporal toil,
On this unworthy scaffold to bring forth
On your imaginary forces work.
Or rather swaying more upon our part
Piece out our imperfections with your thoughts:
Printing their proud hoofs i' th' receiving earth;
Save that there was not time enough to hear,
Seem'd to die too; yea, at that very moment,
Since his addiction was to courses vain,
Six thousand and two hundred good esquires;
So great an object. Can this cockpit hold
So soon did lose his seat, and all at once,
So that the art and practic part of life
Suppose within the girdle of these walls
T'envelop and contain celestial spirits.
Than cherishing th' exhibiters against us;
Than ever at one time the clergy yet
That did affright the air at Agincourt?
The Gordian knot of it he will unloose,
The air, a charter'd libertine, is still,
The breath no sooner left his father's body
The brightest heaven of invention,
The flat unraised spirits that hath dar'd
The perilous narrow ocean parts asunder.
The severals and unhidden passages
The vasty fields of France? Or may we cram
Then should the warlike Harry, like himself,
Think, when we talk of horses, that you see them
To give him hearing: is it four o'clock?
To steal his sweet and honey'd sentences;
Turn him to any cause of policy,
Turning th' accomplishment of many years
Under the veil of wildness; which, no doubt,
Unseen, yet crescive in his faculty.
Upon our spiritual convocation
Urg'd by the Commons? Doth his Majesty
Was like, and had indeed against us pass'd
We lose the better half of our possession;
Which I could with a ready guess declare,
Which I have open'd to his Grace at large,
Which in th' eleventh year of the last king's reign
Which is a wonder how his Grace should glean it,
Who prologue-like, your humble patience pray
Whose high upreared and abutting fronts
With such a heady currance, scouring faults;
Within this wooden O the very casques
Would they strip from us; being valu'd thus-
You would desire the King were made a prelate;
You would say it hath been all in all his study;
discuss the same in French unto him.
me.
tres cher et divin deesse?
A FRENCH SERGEANT
A LAWYER
A PORTER
ALENCON. Be it so.
ALENCON. Froissart, a countryman of ours, records
ALENCON. They want their porridge and their fat bull
ALICE, a lady attending her
ALICE. C'est bien dit, madame; il est fort bon Anglais.
ALICE. D'elbow, madame.
ALICE. D'elbow.
ALICE. Dat it is not be de fashion pour le ladies of France- I
ALICE. De arm, madame.
ALICE. De chin.
ALICE. De nails, madame.
ALICE. De nick, madame.
ALICE. Excellent, madame!
ALICE. Il est trop difficile, madame, comme je pense.
ALICE. La main? Elle est appelee de hand.
ALICE. Le foot, madame; et le count.
ALICE. Les doigts? Ma foi, j'oublie les doigts; mais je me
ALICE. Les ongles? Nous les appelons de nails.
ALICE. N'avez-vous pas deja oublie ce que je vous ai enseigne?
ALICE. Oui, dat de tongues of de mans is be full of deceits- dat is
ALICE. Oui, vraiment, sauf votre grace, ainsi dit-il.
ALICE. Oui, vraiment.
ALICE. Oui. Sauf votre honneur, en verite, vous prononcez les mots
ALICE. Sauf votre honneur, d'elbow.
ALICE. Un peu, madame.
ALICE. Your Majestee entendre bettre que moi.
ALL. Amen!
AMBASSADOR. May't please your Majesty to give us leave
AMBASSADOR. Thus then, in few.
AMBASSADORS to the King of England
AN OLD SHEPHERD, father to Joan la Pucelle
ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY
ARCHBISHOP. 'Tis very true, Lord Bardolph; for indeed
ARCHBISHOP. 'Tis very true;
ARCHBISHOP. 'Tis well done.
ARCHBISHOP. A peace is of the nature of a conquest;
ARCHBISHOP. Against ill chances men are ever merry;
ARCHBISHOP. Before, and greet his Grace. My lord, we come.
ARCHBISHOP. Believe me, I am passing light in spirit.
ARCHBISHOP. Go, good Lord Hastings,
ARCHBISHOP. Good my Lord of Lancaster,
ARCHBISHOP. Here stand, my lords, and send discoverers forth
ARCHBISHOP. I do not doubt you.
ARCHBISHOP. I take your princely word for these redresses.
ARCHBISHOP. Let us on,
ARCHBISHOP. My brother general, the commonwealth,
ARCHBISHOP. My lord, we will do so.          Exit WESTMORELAND
ARCHBISHOP. No, no, my lord. Note this: the King is weary
ARCHBISHOP. Say on, my Lord of Westmoreland, in peace,
ARCHBISHOP. That he should draw his several strengths together
ARCHBISHOP. Then take, my Lord of Westmoreland, this schedule,
ARCHBISHOP. Thus have you heard our cause and known our means;
ARCHBISHOP. To you, my noble Lord of Westmoreland.
ARCHBISHOP. What is this forest call'd
ARCHBISHOP. What well-appointed leader fronts us here?
ARCHBISHOP. Wherefore do I this? So the question stands.
ARCHBISHOP. Will you thus break your faith?
BARDOLPH,    "    "   "    "     "
BARDOLPH.  [ Within]  Bid Mistress Tearsheet come to my master.
BARDOLPH.  [ Within]  Mistress Tearsheet!
BARDOLPH. An I might see you there, Davy!
BARDOLPH. An you do not make him be hang'd among you, the gallows
BARDOLPH. And I'll stick by him, sir.
BARDOLPH. And of women.
BARDOLPH. At the old place, my lord, in Eastcheap.
BARDOLPH. Away, you rogue.
BARDOLPH. Away, you whoreson upright rabbit, away!
BARDOLPH. Be gone, good ancient; this will grow to a brawl anon.
BARDOLPH. By this sword, he that makes the first thrust I'll kill
BARDOLPH. Come, get you down stairs.
BARDOLPH. Come, shall I make you two friends? We must to France
BARDOLPH. Corporal Nym, an thou wilt be friends, be friends; an
BARDOLPH. Farewell, hostess.                     [Kissing her]
BARDOLPH. Go to; stand aside.
BARDOLPH. Go to; stand aside.
BARDOLPH. God save your Grace!
BARDOLPH. Good Lieutenant, good Corporal, offer nothing here.
BARDOLPH. Hear me, hear me what I say: he that strikes the first
BARDOLPH. Here comes Ancient Pistol and his wife. Good Corporal, be
BARDOLPH. Hold, Wart. Traverse- thus, thus, thus.
BARDOLPH. I am glad to see your worship.
BARDOLPH. I beseech you, which is Justice Shallow?
BARDOLPH. I have no tongue, sir.
BARDOLPH. I will bestow a breakfast to make you friends; and we'll
BARDOLPH. In bodily health, sir.
BARDOLPH. It is certain, Corporal, that he is married to Nell
BARDOLPH. My captain, sir, commends him to you; my captain, Sir
BARDOLPH. O joyful day!
BARDOLPH. On, on, on, on, on! to the breach, to the breach!
BARDOLPH. Pardon, sir; I have heard the word. 'Phrase' call you it?
BARDOLPH. Pray thee go down, good ancient.
BARDOLPH. Sir, a word with you. I have three pound to free Mouldy
BARDOLPH. Sir, pardon; a soldier is better accommodated than with a
BARDOLPH. The army is discharged all and gone.
BARDOLPH. Well met, Corporal Nym.
BARDOLPH. Well said; th'art a good fellow.
BARDOLPH. Well, my lord. He heard of your Grace's coming to town.
BARDOLPH. Well, the fuel is gone that maintain'd that fire: that's
BARDOLPH. What, are Ancient Pistol and you friends yet?
BARDOLPH. Would I were with him, wheresome'er he is, either in
BARDOLPH. Yea, my lord.
BARDOLPH. Yea, sir, in a pottle-pot.
BARDOLPH. Yea, sir. The rascal's drunk. You have hurt him, sir, i'
BARDOLPH. You must away to court, sir, presently;
BASSET, of the Red Rose or Lancaster faction
BASTARD OF ORLEANS
BASTARD. Methinks your looks are sad, your cheer appall'd.
BASTARD. Where's the Prince Dauphin? I have news for him.
BATES,    soldier in the King's army
BATES. Ay, or more than we should seek after; for we know enough if
BATES. Be friends, you English fools, be friends; we have
BATES. He hath not told his thought to the King?
BATES. He may show what outward courage he will; but I believe, as
BATES. I do not desire he should answer for me, and yet I determine
BATES. I think it be; but we have no great cause to desire the
BATES. Then I would he were here alone; so should he be sure to be
BEDFORD. Cease, cease these jars and rest your minds in peace;
BEDFORD. Farewell, good Salisbury; and good luck go with thee!
BEDFORD. Fore God, his Grace is bold, to trust these traitors.
BEDFORD. Gloucester, why doubt'st thou of my forwardness?
BEDFORD. He is as full of valour as of kindness;
BEDFORD. His ransom there is none but I shall pay.
BEDFORD. Hung be the heavens with black, yield day to
BEDFORD. I do remember it, and here take my leave
BEDFORD. Is Talbot slain? Then I will slay myself,
BEDFORD. Me they concern; Regent I am of France.
BEDFORD. The King hath note of all that they intend,
BEDFORD. The King himself is rode to view their battle.
BEDFORD. What say'st thou, man, before dead Henry's corse?
BISHOP OF ELY
BOURBON. Shame, and eternal shame, nothing but shame!
BOURBON. The devil take order now! I'll to the throng.
BOY                               A HERALD
BOY.             As duly, but not as truly,
BOY. 'A said once the devil would have him about women.
BOY. And that's but unwholesome food, they say.
BOY. As young as I am, I have observ'd these three swashers. I am
BOY. Do you not remember 'a saw a flea stick upon Bardolph's nose,
BOY. Ecoutez: comment etes-vous appele?
BOY. Encore qu'il est contre son jurement de pardonner aucun
BOY. He gives you, upon his knees, a thousand thanks; and he
BOY. He prays you to save his life; he is a gentleman of a good
BOY. He says his name is Master Fer.
BOY. I do not know the French for fer, and ferret, and firk.
BOY. Il me commande a vous dire que vous faites vous pret; car ce
BOY. Mine host Pistol, you must come to my master; and your
BOY. Suivez-vous le grand capitaine.       Exit FRENCH SOLDIER
BOY. Would I were in an alehouse in London! I wouid give all my
BOY. Yes, that 'a did, and said they were devils incarnate.
BRITAINE. Normans, but bastard Normans, Norman bastards!
BRITAINE. They bid us to the English dancing-schools
BROTHERS. We hope no otherwise from your Majesty.
BULLCALF. A whoreson cold, sir, a cough, sir, which I caught with
BULLCALF. Good Master Corporate Bardolph, stand my friend; and
BULLCALF. Here, sir.
BULLCALF. O Lord! good my lord captain-
BULLCALF. O Lord, sir! I am a diseased man.
BURGUNDY. As love is, my lord, before it loves.
BURGUNDY. God save your Majesty! My royal cousin,
BURGUNDY. I will wink on her to consent, my lord, if you will teach
BURGUNDY. Is she not apt?
BURGUNDY. My duty to you both, on equal love,
BURGUNDY. Pardon the frankness of my mirth, if I answer you for
BURGUNDY. The King hath heard them; to the which as yet
BURGUNDY. They are then excus'd, my lord, when they see not what
CAMBRIDGE. For me, the gold of France did not seduce,
CAMBRIDGE. I do confess my fault,
CAMBRIDGE. I one, my lord.
CAMBRIDGE. Never was monarch better fear'd and lov'd
CAMBRIDGE. So may your Highness, and yet punish too.
CANTERBURY. God and his angels guard your sacred throne,
CANTERBURY. O, let their bodies follow, my dear liege,
CANTERBURY. She hath been then more fear'd than harm'd, my liege;
CANTERBURY. The sin upon my head, dread sovereign!
CANTERBURY. Then hear me, gracious sovereign, and you peers,
CANTERBURY. Therefore doth heaven divide
CANTERBURY. They of those marches, gracious sovereign,
CHARLES THE SIXTH, King of France
CHARLES, Dauphin, and afterwards King of France
CHARLES. Bastard of Orleans, thrice welcome to us.
CHARLES. Let's leave this town; for they are hare-brain'd
CHARLES. Mars his true moving, even as in the heavens
CHARLES. Sound, sound alarum; we will rush on them.
CHARLES. Who ever saw the like? What men have I!
CHIEF JUSTICE. And so they are.
CHIEF JUSTICE. But since all is well, keep it so: wake not a
CHIEF JUSTICE. Come all his forces back?
CHIEF JUSTICE. Do you set down your name in the scroll of youth,
CHIEF JUSTICE. For what sum?
CHIEF JUSTICE. Go, carry Sir John Falstaff to the Fleet;
CHIEF JUSTICE. Good morrow, and God save your Majesty!
CHIEF JUSTICE. Have you your wits? Know you what 'tis you speak?
CHIEF JUSTICE. He hath.
CHIEF JUSTICE. He that was in question for the robb'ry?
CHIEF JUSTICE. How comes this, Sir John? Fie! What man of good
CHIEF JUSTICE. How doth the King?
CHIEF JUSTICE. How now, Sir John! what, are you brawling here?
CHIEF JUSTICE. I am assur'd, if I be measur'd rightly,
CHIEF JUSTICE. I am sure he is, to the hearing of anything good.
CHIEF JUSTICE. I cannot now speak. I will hear you soon.
CHIEF JUSTICE. I have heard better news.
CHIEF JUSTICE. I hope, not dead.
CHIEF JUSTICE. I know he doth not, and do arm myself
CHIEF JUSTICE. I sent for you, when there were matters against you
CHIEF JUSTICE. I talk not of his Majesty. You would not come when I
CHIEF JUSTICE. I then did use the person of your father;
CHIEF JUSTICE. I think you are fall'n into the disease, for you
CHIEF JUSTICE. I would his Majesty had call'd me with him.
CHIEF JUSTICE. Not a penny, not a penny; you are too impatient to
CHIEF JUSTICE. Now, Master Gower, what news?
CHIEF JUSTICE. Now, the Lord lighten thee! Thou art a great fool.
CHIEF JUSTICE. O God, I fear all will be overturn'd.
CHIEF JUSTICE. Peace be with us, lest we be heavier!
CHIEF JUSTICE. Pray thee, peace. Pay her the debt you owe her, and
CHIEF JUSTICE. Sir John Falstaff, a word with you.
CHIEF JUSTICE. Sir John, I sent for you before your expedition to
CHIEF JUSTICE. Sir John, Sir John, I am well acquainted with your
CHIEF JUSTICE. Sir John, you loiter here too long, being you are to
CHIEF JUSTICE. Sweet Princes, what I did, I did in honour,
CHIEF JUSTICE. There is not a white hair in your face but should
CHIEF JUSTICE. To punish you by the heels would amend the attention
CHIEF JUSTICE. Well God mend him! I pray you let me speak with you.
CHIEF JUSTICE. Well, God send the Prince a better companion!
CHIEF JUSTICE. Well, I am loath to gall a new-heal'd wound. Your
CHIEF JUSTICE. Well, be honest, be honest; and God bless your
CHIEF JUSTICE. Well, the King hath sever'd you. I hear you are
CHIEF JUSTICE. Well, the truth is, Sir John, you live in great
CHIEF JUSTICE. What foolish master taught you these manners, Sir
CHIEF JUSTICE. What is the matter? Keep the peace here, ho!
CHIEF JUSTICE. What tell you me of it? Be it as it is.
CHIEF JUSTICE. What! you are as a candle, the better part burnt
CHIEF JUSTICE. What's he that goes there?
CHIEF JUSTICE. What's the matter?
CHIEF JUSTICE. What, to York? Call him back again.
CHIEF JUSTICE. Where lay the King to-night?
CHIEF JUSTICE. You follow the young Prince up and down, like his
CHIEF JUSTICE. You have misled the youthful Prince.
CHIEF JUSTICE. You shall have letters of me presently.
CHIEF JUSTICE. You speak as having power to do wrong; but answer in
CHIEF JUSTICE. Your means are very slender, and your waste is
CHORUS
CHORUS. Now all the youth of England are on fire,
CHORUS. Now entertain conjecture of a time
CHORUS. Thus far, with rough and all-unable pen,
CHORUS. Thus with imagin'd wing our swift scene flies,
CHORUS. Vouchsafe to those that have not read the story
CLARENCE. Doth the King call?
CLARENCE. He is not there to-day; he dines in London.
CLARENCE. His eye is hollow, and he changes much.
CLARENCE. I am here, brother, full of heaviness.
CLARENCE. I shall observe him with all care and love.
CLARENCE. Let us withdraw into the other room.
CLARENCE. No, no; he cannot long hold out these pangs.
CLARENCE. O my royal father!
CLARENCE. The river hath thrice flow'd, no ebb between;
CLARENCE. We left the Prince my brother here, my liege,
CLARENCE. Well, you must now speak Sir John Falstaff fair;
CLARENCE. What would my lord and father?
CLARENCE. With Poins, and other his continual followers.
COLVILLE. Are not you Sir John Falstaff?
COLVILLE. I am a knight sir; and my name is Colville of the Dale.
COLVILLE. I am, my lord, but as my betters are
COLVILLE. I think you are Sir John Falstaff, and in that thought
COLVILLE. It is, my lord.
CONSTABLE. A valiant and most expert gentleman. Would it were day!
CONSTABLE. And if he be not fought withal, my lord,
CONSTABLE. And yet my sky shall not want.
CONSTABLE. By my faith, sir, but it is; never anybody saw it but
CONSTABLE. Dieu de batailles! where have they this mettle?
CONSTABLE. Disorder, that hath spoil'd us, friend us now!
CONSTABLE. Doing is activity, and he will still be doing.
CONSTABLE. Ev'n as your horse bears your praises, who would trot as
CONSTABLE. Hark how our steeds for present service neigh!
CONSTABLE. I could make as true a boast as that, if I had a sow to
CONSTABLE. I had as lief have my mistress a jade.
CONSTABLE. I stay but for my guidon. To the field!
CONSTABLE. I think he will eat all he kills.
CONSTABLE. I was told that by one that knows him better than you.
CONSTABLE. I will cap that proverb with 'There is flattery in
CONSTABLE. I will not say so, for fear I should be fac'd out of my
CONSTABLE. If the English had any apprehension, they would run
CONSTABLE. Indeed, my lord, it is a most absolute and excellent
CONSTABLE. It is the best horse of Europe.
CONSTABLE. Just, just! and the men do sympathise with the mastiffs
CONSTABLE. Marry, he told me so himself; and he said he car'd not
CONSTABLE. Mine was not bridled.
CONSTABLE. Nay, for methought yesterday your mistress shrewdly
CONSTABLE. Nor will do none to-morrow: he will keep that good name
CONSTABLE. O diable!
CONSTABLE. O peace, Prince Dauphin!
CONSTABLE. Stars, my lord.
CONSTABLE. Swear by her foot, that she may tread out the oath.
CONSTABLE. Then shall we find to-morrow they have only stomachs to
CONSTABLE. They have said their prayers and they stay for death.
CONSTABLE. This becomes the great.
CONSTABLE. To horse, you gallant Princes! straight to horse!
CONSTABLE. Tut! I have the best armour of the world.
CONSTABLE. Well plac'd! There stands your friend for the devil;
CONSTABLE. Who hath measur'd the ground?
CONSTABLE. Why, an our ranks are broke.
CONSTABLE. Yet do I not use my horse for my mistress, or any such
CONSTABLE. You have good judgment in horsemanship.
CONSTABLE. You have shot over.
CONSTABLE. You must first go yourself to hazard ere you have them.
COUNTESS OF AUVERGNE
COURT,       "    "   "    "     "
COURT. Brother John Bates, is not that the morning which breaks
DAUPHIN. 'Le chien est retourne a son propre vomissement, et la
DAUPHIN. 'Tis midnight; I'll go arm myself.               Exit
DAUPHIN. And of the heat of the ginger. It is a beast for Perseus:
DAUPHIN. Be warn'd by me, then: they that ride so, and ride not
DAUPHIN. By faith and honour,
DAUPHIN. Ciel! cousin Orleans.
DAUPHIN. For the Dauphin:
DAUPHIN. I tell thee, Constable, my mistress wears his own hair.
DAUPHIN. It is the prince of palfreys; his neigh is like the
DAUPHIN. Me well; which is the prescript praise and perfection of a
DAUPHIN. Montez a cheval! My horse! Varlet, laquais! Ha!
DAUPHIN. Mort Dieu, ma vie! all is confounded, all!
DAUPHIN. Mount them, and make incision in their hides,
DAUPHIN. My Lord of Orleans and my Lord High Constable, you talk of
DAUPHIN. My most redoubted father,
DAUPHIN. Nay, the man hath no wit that cannot, from the rising of
DAUPHIN. Not so, I do beseech your Majesty.
DAUPHIN. O Dieu vivant! Shall a few sprays of us,
DAUPHIN. O perdurable shame! Let's stab ourselves.
DAUPHIN. O, then belike she was old and gentle; and you rode like a
DAUPHIN. Say, if my father render fair return,
DAUPHIN. Shall we go send them dinners and fresh suits,
DAUPHIN. So perhaps did yours.
DAUPHIN. Some of them will fall to-morrow, I hope.
DAUPHIN. That may be, for you bear a many superfluously, and 'twere
DAUPHIN. Then did they imitate that which I compos'd to my courser;
DAUPHIN. Turn head and stop pursuit; for coward dogs
DAUPHIN. Via! Les eaux et la terre-
DAUPHIN. Well, 'tis not so, my Lord High Constable;
DAUPHIN. What a long night is this! I will not change my horse with
DAUPHIN. Would I were able to load him with his desert! Will it
DAVY.  [Exit DAVY]  Where are you, Sir John? Come, come, come, off
DAVY.  [To BARDOLPH]  There's a dish of leather-coats for you.
DAVY. An't please your worship, there's one Pistol come from the
DAVY. Doth the man of war stay all night, sir?
DAVY. Here, sir.
DAVY. I beseech you, sir, to countenance William Visor of Woncot
DAVY. I grant your worship that he is a knave, sir; but yet God
DAVY. I hope to see London once ere I die.
DAVY. Marry, sir, thus: those precepts cannot be served; and,
DAVY. No worse than they are backbitten, sir; for they have
DAVY. Now, sir, a new link to the bucket must needs be had; and,
DAVY. Sweet sir, sit; I'll be with you anon; most sweet sir, sit.
DAVY. Yes, sir. Here is now the smith's note for shoeing and
DAVY. Your worship! I'll be with you straight.  [To BARDOLPH]
DOLL. A pox damn you, you muddy rascal! Is that all the comfort you
DOLL. Ah, you sweet little rogue, you! Alas, poor ape, how thou
DOLL. Away, you cut-purse rascal! you filthy bung, away! By this
DOLL. Better than I was- hem.
DOLL. By my troth, I kiss thee with a most constant heart.
DOLL. By my troth, thou't set me a-weeping, an thou say'st so.
DOLL. Can a weak empty vessel bear such a huge full hogs-head?
DOLL. Captain! Thou abominable damn'd cheater, art thou not ashamed
DOLL. Charge me! I scorn you, scurvy companion. What! you poor,
DOLL. Come, you rogue, come; bring me to a justice.
DOLL. Come, you thin thing! come, you rascal!
DOLL. Do, an thou dar'st for thy heart. An thou dost, I'll canvass
DOLL. For God's sake thrust him down stairs; I cannot endure such a
DOLL. Goodman death, goodman bones!
DOLL. Hang him, swaggering rascal! Let him not come hither; it is
DOLL. Hang yourself, you muddy conger, hang yourself!
DOLL. How, you fat fool! I scorn you.
DOLL. I cannot speak. If my heart be not ready to burst!
DOLL. I love thee better than I love e'er a scurvy young boy of
DOLL. I make them! Gluttony and diseases make them: I make them
DOLL. I pray thee, Jack, I pray thee, do not draw.
DOLL. I pray thee, Jack, be quiet; the rascal's gone. Ah, you
DOLL. I' faith, and thou follow'dst him like a church. Thou
DOLL. I'll tell you what, you thin man in a censer, I will have you
DOLL. Nut-hook, nut-hook, you lie. Come on; I'll tell thee what,
DOLL. Sirrah, what humour's the Prince of?
DOLL. So you do, hostess.
DOLL. They say Poins has a good wit.
DOLL. What says your Grace?
DOLL. Why does the Prince love him so, then?
DOLL. Yea, joy, our chains and our jewels.
DUKE OF ALENCON
DUKE OF BEDFORD,       "     "  "    "
DUKE OF BEDFORD, uncle to the King, and Regent of France
DUKE OF BOURBON                   THE CONSTABLE OF FRANCE
DUKE OF BURGUNDY
DUKE OF EXETER, Uncle to the King
DUKE OF GLOUCESTER, brother to the King
DUKE OF GLOUCESTER, uncle to the King, and Protector
DUKE OF ORLEANS                   DUKE OF BRITAINE
DUKE OF YORK, cousin to the King
EARL OF CAMBRIDGE, conspirator against the King
EARL OF SALISBURY
EARL OF SALISBURY
EARL OF SUFFOLK
EARL OF WARWICK
EARL OF WARWICK
EARL OF WESTMORELAND
EDMUND MORTIMER, EARL OF MARCH
ELY. Awake remembrance of these valiant dead,
ERPINGHAM. I shall do't, my lord.                         Exit
ERPINGHAM. My lord, your nobles, jealous of your absence,
ERPINGHAM. Not so, my liege; this lodging likes me better,
ERPINGHAM. Shall I attend your Grace?
ERPINGHAM. The Lord in heaven bless thee, noble Harry!
EXETER. 'Tis wonderful!
EXETER. Bloody constraint; for if you hide the crown
EXETER. Charles Duke of Orleans, nephew to the King;
EXETER. Dispatch us with all speed, lest that our king
EXETER. Farewell, kind lord. Fight valiantly to-day;
EXETER. From him, and thus he greets your Majesty:
EXETER. He'll make your Paris Louvre shake for it,
EXETER. Here comes the herald of the French, my liege.
EXETER. How were they lost? What treachery was us'd?
EXETER. I arrest thee of high treason, by the name of Richard Earl
EXETER. In which array, brave soldier, doth he lie
EXETER. It follows, then, the cat must stay at home;
EXETER. Nay, but the man that was his bedfellow,
EXETER. Not here in presence.
EXETER. Only he hath not yet subscribed this:
EXETER. Remember, lords, your oaths to Henry sworn,
EXETER. Scorn and defiance, slight regard, contempt,
EXETER. Soldier, you must come to the King.
EXETER. Tennis-balls, my liege.
EXETER. The Dauphin crowned king! all fly to him!
EXETER. The Duke of York commends him to your Majesty.
EXETER. There's five to one; besides, they all are fresh.
EXETER. They shall be apprehended by and by.
EXETER. This was a merry message.
EXETER. To Eltham will I, where the young King is,
EXETER. We mourn in black; why mourn we not in blood?
EXETER. Were our tears wanting to this funeral,
EXETER. Your brother kings and monarchs of the earth
FALSTAFF.  [Singing]  'When Arthur first in court'- Empty the
FALSTAFF.  [To SILENCE, who has drunk a bumper]  Why, now you have
FALSTAFF.  [To the PAGE]. Pay the musicians, sirrah.- Farewell,
FALSTAFF. 'Tis so.
FALSTAFF. 'Tis the more time thou wert us'd.
FALSTAFF. 'Your brooches, pearls, and ouches.' For to serve bravely
FALSTAFF. A better than thou. I am a gentleman: thou art a drawer.
FALSTAFF. A good shallow young fellow. 'A would have made a good
FALSTAFF. A rascal! to brave me!
FALSTAFF. A rascally slave! I will toss the rogue in a blanket.
FALSTAFF. A wassail candle, my lord- all tallow; if I did say of
FALSTAFF. An't please your lordship, I hear his Majesty is return'd
FALSTAFF. And I hear, moreover, his Highness is fall'n into this
FALSTAFF. And a famous true subject took him.
FALSTAFF. As I am a gentleman!
FALSTAFF. As I am a gentleman! Come, no more words of it.
FALSTAFF. As I was then advis'd by my learned counsel in the laws
FALSTAFF. As good a man as he, sir, whoe'er I am. Do you yield,
FALSTAFF. As it were, to ride day and night; and not to deliberate,
FALSTAFF. Away, Bardolph! saddle my horse. Master Robert Shallow,
FALSTAFF. Away, varlets! Draw, Bardolph. Cut me off the villian's
FALSTAFF. Because their legs are both of a bigness, and 'a plays at
FALSTAFF. Boy, tell him I am deaf.
FALSTAFF. But to stand stained with travel, and sweating with
FALSTAFF. Carry Master Silence to bed. Master Shallow, my Lord
FALSTAFF. Come here, Pistol; stand behind me.  [To SHALLOW]  O, if
FALSTAFF. Come hither, hostess.
FALSTAFF. Come, I will go drink with you, but I cannot tarry
FALSTAFF. Come, manage me your caliver. So- very well. Go to; very
FALSTAFF. Come, sir, which men shall I have?
FALSTAFF. Come, thou shalt go to the wars in a gown. We will have
FALSTAFF. Comes the King back from Wales, my noble lord?
FALSTAFF. Didst thou hear me?
FALSTAFF. Do you choose for me.
FALSTAFF. Dost thou hear, hostess?
FALSTAFF. Dost thou hear? It is mine ancient.
FALSTAFF. Fare you well, gentle gentlemen.  [Exeunt JUSTICES]  On,
FALSTAFF. Farewell, farewell.
FALSTAFF. Fear no colours; go with me to dinner. Come, Lieutenant
FALSTAFF. Fie! this is hot weather. Gentlemen, have you provided me
FALSTAFF. For one of them- she's in hell already, and burns poor
FALSTAFF. Fore God, a likely fellow! Come, prick me Bullcalf till
FALSTAFF. Fore God, would you would.
FALSTAFF. Fore God, you have here a goodly dwelling and rich.
FALSTAFF. From the court? Let him come in.
FALSTAFF. Get you down stairs.
FALSTAFF. Give me my rapier, boy.
FALSTAFF. Glasses, glasses, is the only drinking; and for thy
FALSTAFF. Go to; peace, Mouldy; you shall go. Mouldy, it is time
FALSTAFF. Go to; well.
FALSTAFF. God save thee, my sweet boy!
FALSTAFF. God save thy Grace, King Hal; my royal Hal!
FALSTAFF. God send the companion a better prince! I cannot rid my
FALSTAFF. Good Master Silence, it well befits you should be of the
FALSTAFF. Ha! a bastard son of the King's? And art thou not Poins
FALSTAFF. Hark thee hither, Mistress Doll.
FALSTAFF. Have you turn'd him out a doors?
FALSTAFF. He a good wit! hang him, baboon! His wit's as thick as
FALSTAFF. He that buckles himself in my belt cannot live in less.
FALSTAFF. He's no swagg'rer, hostess; a tame cheater, i' faith; you
FALSTAFF. Health and long life to you, Master Silence!
FALSTAFF. His Grace says that which his flesh rebels against.
FALSTAFF. His effect of gravy, gravy,
FALSTAFF. How now! whose mare's dead? What's the matter?
FALSTAFF. I am as poor as Job, my lord, but not so patient. Your
FALSTAFF. I am bound to thee, reverend Feeble. Who is next?
FALSTAFF. I am glad to see you well, good Master Robert Shallow.
FALSTAFF. I am old, I am old.
FALSTAFF. I bought him in Paul's, and he'll buy me a horse in
FALSTAFF. I can get no remedy against this consumption of the
FALSTAFF. I come, Master Shallow; I come, Master Shallow.
FALSTAFF. I did not think Master Silence had been a man of this
FALSTAFF. I give thee leave to tell me so! I lay aside that which
FALSTAFF. I have a whole school of tongues in this belly of mine;
FALSTAFF. I hope, my lord, all's well. What is the news, my lord?
FALSTAFF. I know not how they sold themselves; but thou, like a
FALSTAFF. I know not. Here he is, and here I yield him; and I
FALSTAFF. I pray thee now, deliver them like a man of this world.
FALSTAFF. I think I am as like to ride the mare, if I have any
FALSTAFF. I will deliver her.
FALSTAFF. I would be sorry, my lord, but it should be thus: I never
FALSTAFF. I would it were otherwise; I would my means were greater
FALSTAFF. I would thou wert a man's tailor, that thou mightst mend
FALSTAFF. I would you had but the wit; 'twere better than your
FALSTAFF. I'll follow you, good Master Robert Shallow.
FALSTAFF. If I do, fillip me with a three-man beetle. A man can no
FALSTAFF. If the cook help to make the gluttony, you help to make
FALSTAFF. Is thy name Mouldy?
FALSTAFF. Is thy name Wart?
FALSTAFF. It hath it original from much grief, from study, and
FALSTAFF. It shows my earnestness of affection-
FALSTAFF. It were superfluous; for his apparel is built upon his
FALSTAFF. Keep them off, Bardolph.
FALSTAFF. Kiss me, Doll.
FALSTAFF. Let him be damn'd, like the Glutton; pray God his tongue
FALSTAFF. Let it alone; I'll make other shift. You'll be a fool
FALSTAFF. Let it do something, my good lord, that may do me good,
FALSTAFF. Let it shine, then.
FALSTAFF. Let me see them, I beseech you.
FALSTAFF. Let them go. I'll through Gloucestershire, and there will
FALSTAFF. Let them play. Play, sirs. Sit on my knee, Don. A rascal
FALSTAFF. Master Gower, if they become me not, he was a fool that
FALSTAFF. Master Gower, shall I entreat you with me to dinner?
FALSTAFF. Master Shallow, I owe you a thousand pounds.
FALSTAFF. Men of all sorts take a pride to gird at me. The brain of
FALSTAFF. Mouldy and Bullcalf: for you, Mouldy, stay at home till
FALSTAFF. My devotion-
FALSTAFF. My good lord! God give your lordship good time of day. I
FALSTAFF. My king! my Jove! I speak to thee, my heart!
FALSTAFF. My lord!
FALSTAFF. My lord, I beseech you, give me leave to go through
FALSTAFF. My lord, I was born about three of the clock in the
FALSTAFF. My lord, I will not undergo this sneap without reply. You
FALSTAFF. My lord, my lord-
FALSTAFF. My lord, this is a poor mad soul, and she says up and
FALSTAFF. My lord-
FALSTAFF. Never, never; she would always say she could not abide
FALSTAFF. No abuse, Hal, o' mine honour; no abuse.
FALSTAFF. No abuse, Hal.
FALSTAFF. No abuse, Ned, i' th' world; honest Ned, none. I
FALSTAFF. No more of that, Master Shallow, no more of that.
FALSTAFF. No more words; let's have her.
FALSTAFF. No more, Pistol; I would not have you go off here.
FALSTAFF. No, I think thou art not; I think thou art quit for that.
FALSTAFF. No, no, no; not so; I did not think thou wast within
FALSTAFF. Not so, my lord. Your ill angel is light; but  hope he
FALSTAFF. Now comes in the sweetest morsel of the night, and we
FALSTAFF. O base Assyrian knight, what is thy news?
FALSTAFF. Old, old, Master Shallow.
FALSTAFF. Peace, good Doll! Do not speak like a death's-head; do
FALSTAFF. Pistol, I would be quiet.
FALSTAFF. Prick him.
FALSTAFF. Quoit him down, Bardolph, like a shove-groat shilling.
FALSTAFF. Shadow will serve for summer. Prick him; for we have a
FALSTAFF. Shadow, whose son art thou?
FALSTAFF. She is pistol-proof, sir; you shall not hardly offend
FALSTAFF. She lives, Master Shallow.
FALSTAFF. Sir, I will be as good as my word. This that you heard
FALSTAFF. Sirrah, you giant, what says the doctor to my water?
FALSTAFF. So is all her sect; and they be once in a calm, they are
FALSTAFF. Some sack, Francis.
FALSTAFF. Stand here by me, Master Robert Shallow; I will make the
FALSTAFF. That can hardly be, Master Shallow. Do not you grieve at
FALSTAFF. The fiend hath prick'd down Bardolph irrecoverable; and
FALSTAFF. The young Prince hath misled me. I am the fellow with the
FALSTAFF. There's a merry heart! Good Master Silence, I'll give you
FALSTAFF. These fellows will do well. Master Shallow, God keep you!
FALSTAFF. This Davy serves you for good uses; he is your
FALSTAFF. This apoplexy, as I take it, is a kind of lethargy, an't
FALSTAFF. Thou art a very ragged wart.
FALSTAFF. Thou dost give me flattering busses.
FALSTAFF. Thou whoreson mad compound of majesty, by this light
FALSTAFF. Thy mother's son! Like enough; and thy father's shadow.
FALSTAFF. To wake a wolf is as bad as smell a fox.
FALSTAFF. Very well, my lord, very well. Rather an't please you, it
FALSTAFF. Wait close; I will not see him.
FALSTAFF. We have heard the chimes at midnight, Master Shallow.
FALSTAFF. Welcome, Ancient Pistol. Here, Pistol, I charge you with
FALSTAFF. Well said, Master Silence.
FALSTAFF. Well said, good woman's tailor! well said, courageous
FALSTAFF. Well then, Colville is your name, a knight is your
FALSTAFF. What disease hast thou?
FALSTAFF. What is the gross sum that I owe thee?
FALSTAFF. What money is in my purse?
FALSTAFF. What stuff wilt have a kirtle of? I shall receive money a
FALSTAFF. What trade art thou, Feeble?
FALSTAFF. What wind blew you hither, Pistol?
FALSTAFF. What! a young knave, and begging! Is there not wars? Is
FALSTAFF. What's the news, my lord?
FALSTAFF. What's your name, sir? Of what condition are you, and of
FALSTAFF. What, dost thou roar before thou art prick'd?
FALSTAFF. What, is the old king dead?
FALSTAFF. Where's he?
FALSTAFF. Why, sir, did I say you were an honest man? Setting my
FALSTAFF. Will I live?  [To BARDOLPH]  Go, with her, with her; hook
FALSTAFF. Will you sup with me, Master Gower?
FALSTAFF. Will you tell me, Master Shallow, how to choose a man?
FALSTAFF. Will your lordship lend me a thousand pound to furnish me
FALSTAFF. Yea, marry, let me have him to sit under. He's like to be
FALSTAFF. Yea, marry, let's see Bullcalf.
FALSTAFF. Yea; I thank your pretty sweet wit for it. But look you
FALSTAFF. You make fat rascals, Mistress Doll.
FALSTAFF. You may; but if he had been a man's tailor, he'd ha'
FALSTAFF. You must excuse me, Master Robert Shallow.
FANG. A rescue! a rescue!
FANG. An I but fist him once; an 'a come but within my vice!
FANG. If I can close with him, I care not for his thrust.
FANG. It is ent'red.
FANG. Sir John, I arrest you at the suit of Mistress Quickly.
FANG. Sirrah, where's Snare?
FANG. Snare, we must arrest Sir John Falstaff.
FEEBLE. A woman's tailor, sir.
FEEBLE. By my troth, I care not; a man can die but once; we owe God
FEEBLE. Faith, I'll bear no base mind.
FEEBLE. Here, sir.
FEEBLE. I will do my good will, sir; you can have no more.
FEEBLE. I would Wart might have gone, sir.
FEEBLE. It shall suffice, sir.
FIRST BEADLE. Come, come, you she knight-errant, come.
FIRST BEADLE. If it do, you shall have a dozen of cushions again;
FIRST BEADLE. The constables have delivered her over to me; and she
FIRST BEADLE. Very well.                                Exeunt
FIRST GROOM. More rushes, more rushes!
FLUELLEN,               "      "  "    "     "
FLUELLEN. 'Sblood, an arrant traitor as any's in the universal
FLUELLEN. 'Tis no matter for his swellings nor his turkey-cocks.
FLUELLEN. All the water in Wye cannot wash your Majesty's Welsh
FLUELLEN. An please your Majesty, let his neck answer for it, if
FLUELLEN. Aunchient Pistol, I do partly understand your meaning.
FLUELLEN. Ay, I praise God; and I have merited some love at his
FLUELLEN. Ay, he was porn at Monmouth, Captain Gower. What call you
FLUELLEN. Ay, leeks is good. Hold you, there is a groat to heal
FLUELLEN. Ay, so please your Majesty. The Duke of Exeter has very
FLUELLEN. By Cheshu, he is an ass, as in the world: I will verify
FLUELLEN. By Jeshu, I am your Majesty's countryman, care not who
FLUELLEN. By this day and this light, the fellow has mettle enough
FLUELLEN. By your patience, Aunchient Pistol. Fortune is painted
FLUELLEN. Captain Jamy is a marvellous falorous gentleman, that is
FLUELLEN. Captain Macmorris, I beseech you now, will you voutsafe
FLUELLEN. Captain Macmorris, I think, look you, under your
FLUELLEN. Captain Macmorris, when there is more better opportunity
FLUELLEN. Certainly, Aunchient, it is not a thing to rejoice at;
FLUELLEN. Eat, I pray you; will you have some more sauce to your
FLUELLEN. God's will and his pleasure, Captain, I beseech you now,
FLUELLEN. God-den to your worship, good Captain James.
FLUELLEN. Gower is a good captain, and is good knowledge and
FLUELLEN. He is a craven and a villain else, an't please your
FLUELLEN. He is call'd Aunchient Pistol.
FLUELLEN. He is my dear friend, an please you.
FLUELLEN. Here is the man.
FLUELLEN. I assure you there is very excellent services committed
FLUELLEN. I peseech you heartily, scurvy, lousy knave, at my
FLUELLEN. I pray you and beseech you that you will.
FLUELLEN. I say I will make him eat some part of my leek, or I will
FLUELLEN. I tell you what, Captain Gower, I do perceive he is not
FLUELLEN. I think it is in Macedon where Alexander is porn. I tell
FLUELLEN. I will fetch him.                               Exit
FLUELLEN. I'll assure you, 'a utt'red as prave words at the pridge
FLUELLEN. If I owe you anything I will pay you in cudgels; you
FLUELLEN. If the enemy is an ass, and a fool, and a prating
FLUELLEN. Is it not lawful, an please your Majesty, to tell how
FLUELLEN. It is Captain Macmorris, is it not?
FLUELLEN. It is not well done, mark you now, to take the tales out
FLUELLEN. It is well.
FLUELLEN. It is with a good will; I can tell you it will serve you
FLUELLEN. Kill the poys and the luggage! 'Tis expressly against the
FLUELLEN. Know the glove? I know the glove is a glove.
FLUELLEN. Look you, if you take the matter otherwise than is meant,
FLUELLEN. Much good do you, scald knave, heartily. Nay, pray you
FLUELLEN. My Lord of Warwick, here is- praised be God for it!- a
FLUELLEN. My liege, here is a villain and a traitor, that, look
FLUELLEN. So! in the name of Jesu Christ, speak fewer. It is the
FLUELLEN. Stand away, Captain Gower; I will give treason his
FLUELLEN. That is he. I'll tell you there is good men porn at
FLUELLEN. That's a lie in thy throat. I charge you in his Majesty's
FLUELLEN. The Duke of Exeter is as magnanimous as Agamemnon; and a
FLUELLEN. The perdition of th' athversary hath been very great,
FLUELLEN. There is occasions and causes why and wherefore in all
FLUELLEN. There is one goat for you.  [Strikes him]  Will you be so
FLUELLEN. Though he be as good a gentleman as the Devil is, as
FLUELLEN. To the mines! Tell you the Duke it is not so good to come
FLUELLEN. Up to the breach, you dogs!
FLUELLEN. Very good.
FLUELLEN. Why, I pray you, is not 'pig' great? The pig, or great,
FLUELLEN. Yes, certainly, and out of doubt, and out of question
FLUELLEN. Yes, my conscience, he did us great good.
FLUELLEN. Yes, verily and in truth, you shall take it; or I have
FLUELLEN. You say very true, scald knave- when God's will is. I
FLUELLEN. Your Grace does me as great honours as can be desir'd in
FLUELLEN. Your Majesty hear now, saving your Majesty's manhood,
FLUELLEN. Your Majesty says very true; if your Majesties is
FLUELLEN. Your grandfather of famous memory, an't please your
FRANCIS. Sir, Ancient Pistol's below and would speak with you.
FRANCIS. Sirrah, here will be the Prince and Master Poins anon; and
FRANCIS. What the devil hast thou brought there-apple-johns? Thou
FRANCIS. Why, then, cover and set them down; and see if thou canst
FRENCH KING. 'Tis certain he hath pass'd the river Somme.
FRENCH KING. Be patient, for you shall remain with us.
FRENCH KING. For us, we will consider of this further;
FRENCH KING. From our brother of England?
FRENCH KING. I have but with a cursorary eye
FRENCH KING. Nor this I have not, brother, so denied
FRENCH KING. Or else what follows?
FRENCH KING. Right joyous are we to behold your face,
FRENCH KING. So please you.
FRENCH KING. Take her, fair son, and from her blood raise up
FRENCH KING. Therefore, Lord Constable, haste on Montjoy,
FRENCH KING. Think we King Harry strong;
FRENCH KING. Thus comes the English with full power upon us;
FRENCH KING. To-morrow shall you know our mind at full.
FRENCH KING. We have consented to all terms of reason.
FRENCH KING. We'll give them present audience. Go and bring them.
FRENCH KING. Where is Montjoy the herald? Speed him hence;
FRENCH KING. Yes, my lord, you see them perspectively, the cities
FRENCH KING. You shall be soon dispatch'd with fair conditions.
FRENCH SOLDIER. Est-il impossible d'echapper la force de ton bras?
FRENCH SOLDIER. Je pense que vous etes le gentilhomme de bonne
FRENCH SOLDIER. Monsieur le Fer.
FRENCH SOLDIER. O Seigneur Dieu!
FRENCH SOLDIER. O, je vous supplie, pour l'amour de Dieu, me
FRENCH SOLDIER. O, pardonnez-moi!
FRENCH SOLDIER. O, prenez misericorde; ayez pitie de moi!
FRENCH SOLDIER. Petit monsieur, que dit-il?
FRENCH SOLDIER. Que dit-il, monsieur?
FRENCH SOLDIER. Sur mes genoux je vous donne mille remercimens; et
First my fear, then my curtsy, last my speech. My fear, is your
GAOLERS, to Mortimer
GENERAL OF THE FRENCH FORCES in Bordeaux
GLOUCESTER & CLARENCE. Good morrow, cousin.
GLOUCESTER. England ne'er had a king until his time.
GLOUCESTER. His eyes are humbler than they us'd to be.
GLOUCESTER. I hope they will not come upon us now.
GLOUCESTER. I'll to the Tower with all the haste I can
GLOUCESTER. Is Paris lost? Is Rouen yielded up?
GLOUCESTER. My liege!
GLOUCESTER. Name not religion, for thou lov'st the flesh;
GLOUCESTER. The Church! Where is it? Had not churchmen
GLOUCESTER. We shall, my liege.
GLOUCESTER. We will not fly but to our enemies' throats.
GLOUCESTER. Where is the King?
GOVERNOR OF HARFLEUR              MONTJOY, a French herald
GOVERNOR OF PARIS
GOVERNOR. Our expectation hath this day an end:
GOWER,                  "      "  "    "     "
GOWER. 'Tis certain there's not a boy left alive; and the cowardly
GOWER. Alexander the Great.
GOWER. At Basingstoke, my lord.
GOWER. Captain Fluellen!
GOWER. Captain Fluellen, you must come presently to the mines; the
GOWER. Enough, Captain, you have astonish'd him.
GOWER. Gentlemen both, you will mistake each other.
GOWER. Go, go: you are a couterfeit cowardly knave. Will you mock
GOWER. Here 'a comes; and the Scots captain, Captain Jamy, with
GOWER. Here comes his Majesty.
GOWER. How now, Captain Fluellen! Come you from the bridge?
GOWER. How now, Captain Macmorris! Have you quit the mines? Have
GOWER. How now, sir! you villain!
GOWER. I know him not.
GOWER. I must wait upon my good lord here, I thank you, good Sir
GOWER. I think Alexander the Great was born in Macedon; his father
GOWER. I think it be.
GOWER. I will speak lower.
GOWER. Is the Duke of Exeter safe?
GOWER. Nay, that's right; but why wear you your leek to-day? Saint
GOWER. No; fifteen hundred foot, five hundred horse,
GOWER. Our king is not like him in that: he never kill'd any of his
GOWER. Sir John Falstaff.
GOWER. The Duke of Gloucester, to whom the order of the siege is
GOWER. The King, my lord, and Harry Prince of Wales
GOWER. The town sounds a parley.
GOWER. What do you call him?
GOWER. Why, 'tis a gull a fool a rogue, that now and then goes to
GOWER. Why, here he comes, swelling like a turkey-cock.
GOWER. Why, the enemy is loud; you hear him all night.
GOWER. Why, this is an arrant counterfeit rascal; I remember him
GRANDPRE,    "    "
GRANDPRE. Why do you stay so long, my lords of France?
GREY, SCROOP. To which we all appeal.
GREY. And I, my royal sovereign.
GREY. Never did faithful subject more rejoice
GREY. Sir,
GREY. True: those that were your father's enemies
HARCOURT. From enemies heaven keep your Majesty;
HASTINGS. 'Tis Gaultree Forest, an't shall please your Grace.
HASTINGS. And though we here fall down,
HASTINGS. Besides, the King hath wasted all his rods
HASTINGS. But, by your leave, it never yet did hurt
HASTINGS. Fear you not that: if we can make our peace
HASTINGS. Go, Captain, and deliver to the army
HASTINGS. Grant that our hopes- yet likely of fair birth-
HASTINGS. Hath the Prince John a full commission,
HASTINGS. If he should do so,
HASTINGS. My lord, our army is dispers'd already.
HASTINGS. Now, what news?
HASTINGS. Our present musters grow upon the file
HASTINGS. The Duke of Lancaster and Westmoreland;
HASTINGS. To us no more; nay, not so much, Lord Bardolph;
HASTINGS. We are time's subjects, and time bids be gone.
HASTINGS. We have sent forth already.
HASTINGS. With him, we may.
HENRY BEAUFORT, great-uncle to the King, BISHOP OF WINCHESTER,
HENRY the Fifth, thy ghost I invocate:
HERALD. Here is the number of the slaught'red French.
HOSTESS of the Boar's Head, Eastcheap; formerly Mrs. Quickly, now
HOSTESS. 'A could never abide carnation; 'twas a colour he never
HOSTESS. 'A did in some sort, indeed, handle women; but then he was
HOSTESS. Alas the day! take heed of him; he stabb'd me in mine own
HOSTESS. All vict'lers do so. What's a joint of mutton or two in a
HOSTESS. Are you not hurt i' th' groin? Methought 'a made a shrewd
HOSTESS. As ever you come of women, come in quickly to Sir John.
HOSTESS. Ay, come, you starv'd bloodhound.
HOSTESS. Ay, that 'a did.
HOSTESS. By my troth, Captain, these are very bitter words.
HOSTESS. By my troth, he'll yield the crow a pudding one of these
HOSTESS. By my troth, this is the old fashion; you two never meet
HOSTESS. By this heavenly ground I tread on, I must be fain to pawn
HOSTESS. Cheater, call you him? I will bar no honest man my house,
HOSTESS. Come, I'll drink no proofs nor no bullets. I'll drink no
HOSTESS. Do I? Yea, in very truth, do I, an 'twere an aspen leaf. I
HOSTESS. Faith, you said so before.
HOSTESS. Farewell; adieu.                               Exeunt
HOSTESS. God's blessing of your good heart! and so she is, by my
HOSTESS. Good Captain Peesel, be quiet; 'tis very late, i' faith; I
HOSTESS. Good Corporal Nym, show thy valour, and put up your sword.
HOSTESS. Good my lord, be good to me. I beseech you, stand to me.
HOSTESS. Good people, bring a rescue or two. Thou wot, wot thou!
HOSTESS. Here's a goodly tumult! I'll forswear keeping house afore
HOSTESS. Here's goodly stuff toward!
HOSTESS. I am undone by his going; I warrant you, he's an
HOSTESS. I' faith, sweetheart, methinks now you are in an excellent
HOSTESS. If he swagger, let him not come here. No, by my faith! I
HOSTESS. It is more than for some, my lord; it is for all- all I
HOSTESS. Marry, if thou wert an honest man, thyself and the money
HOSTESS. Master Fang, have you ent'red the action?
HOSTESS. Nay, sure, he's not in hell: he's in Arthur's bosom, if
HOSTESS. Nay, that 'a did not.
HOSTESS. No, I warrant you.
HOSTESS. No, by my troth, not long; for we cannot lodge and board a
HOSTESS. No, good Captain Pistol; not here, sweet captain.
HOSTESS. No, nor I neither; I'll be at your elbow.
HOSTESS. No, thou arrant knave; I would to God that I might die,
HOSTESS. O God, that right should thus overcome might!
HOSTESS. O Lord, ay! good Master Snare.
HOSTESS. O My most worshipful lord, an't please your Grace, I am a
HOSTESS. O the Lord, that Sir John were come! He would make this a
HOSTESS. O' my word, Captain, there's none such here. What the
HOSTESS. O, run Doll, run, run, good Come.  [To BARDOLPH]  She
HOSTESS. O, the Lord preserve thy Grace! By my troth, welcome to
HOSTESS. Pray thee, Sir John, let it be but twenty nobles;
HOSTESS. Pray ye, pacify yourself, Sir John; there comes no
HOSTESS. Prithee, honey-sweet husband, let me bring thee to
HOSTESS. Sick of a calm; yea, good faith.
HOSTESS. Thou atomy, thou!
HOSTESS. Throw me in the channel! I'll throw thee in the channel.
HOSTESS. Tilly-fally, Sir John, ne'er tell me; and your ancient
HOSTESS. Well, fare thee well. I have known thee these twenty-nine
HOSTESS. Well, you shall have it, though I pawn my gown.
HOSTESS. What's the matter?
HOSTESS. Where's your yeoman? Is't a lusty yeoman? Will 'a stand
HOSTESS. Who knocks so loud at door? Look to th' door there,
HOSTESS. Why, that's well said; a good heart's worth gold.
HOSTESS. Will you have Doll Tearsheet meet you at supper?
HOSTESS. Yea, good Master Snare; I have ent'red him and all.
HOSTESS. Yea, in truth, my lord.
ISABEL, Queen of France
If my tongue cannot entreat you to acquit me, will you command me to
JAMY,                   "      "  "    "     "
JAMY. Ah! that's a foul fault.              [A parley sounded]
JAMY. By the mess, ere theise eyes of mine take themselves to
JAMY. I say gud day, Captain Fluellen.
JAMY. It sall be vary gud, gud feith, gud captains bath; and I sall
JOAN LA PUCELLE, Commonly called JOAN OF ARC
JOHN BEAUFORT, EARL OF SOMERSET, afterwards Duke
JOHN TALBOT, his son
KATHERINE, daughter to Charles and Isabel
KATHERINE. Ainsi dis-je; d'elbow, de nick, et de sin. Comment
KATHERINE. Alice, tu as ete en Angleterre, et tu parles bien le
KATHERINE. C'est assez pour une fois: allons-nous a diner.
KATHERINE. D'elbow. Je m'en fais la repetition de tous les mots que
KATHERINE. Dat is as it shall please de roi mon pere.
KATHERINE. De hand. Et les doigts?
KATHERINE. De nails, de arm, de ilbow.
KATHERINE. De nails. Ecoutez; dites-moi si je parle bien: de hand,
KATHERINE. De nick. Et le menton?
KATHERINE. De sin. Le col, de nick; le menton, de sin.
KATHERINE. Den it sall also content me.
KATHERINE. Dites-moi l'Anglais pour le bras.
KATHERINE. Et le coude?
KATHERINE. Excusez-moi, Alice; ecoutez: d'hand, de fingre, de
KATHERINE. I cannot tell vat is dat.
KATHERINE. I cannot tell.
KATHERINE. I do not know dat.
KATHERINE. Is it possible dat I sould love de enemy of France?
KATHERINE. Je ne doute point d'apprendre, par la grace de Dieu, et
KATHERINE. Je te prie, m'enseignez; il faut que j'apprenne a
KATHERINE. La main, de hand; les doigts, de fingres. Je pense que
KATHERINE. Laissez, mon seigneur, laissez, laissez! Ma foi, je ne
KATHERINE. Le foot et le count. O Seigneur Dieu! ils sont mots de
KATHERINE. Les dames et demoiselles pour etre baisees devant leur
KATHERINE. Non, je reciterai a vous promptement: d'hand, de fingre,
KATHERINE. O Seigneur Dieu, je m'en oublie! D'elbow.
KATHERINE. O bon Dieu! les langues des hommes sont pleines de
KATHERINE. Pardonnez-moi, I cannot tell vat is like me.
KATHERINE. Que dit-il? que je suis semblable a les anges?
KATHERINE. Sauf votre honneur, le Francais que vous parlez, il est
KATHERINE. Sauf votre honneur, me understand well.
KATHERINE. Your Majestee ave fausse French enough to deceive de
KATHERINE. Your Majesty shall mock me; I cannot speak your England.
KING HENRY THE FIFTH
KING HENRY THE SIXTH
KING HENRY. 'Tis good for men to love their present pains
KING HENRY. A friend.
KING HENRY. A friend.
KING HENRY. Alas, your too much love and care of me
KING HENRY. All things are ready, if our minds be so.
KING HENRY. An Englishman?
KING HENRY. An angel is like you, Kate, and you are like an angel.
KING HENRY. And his kinsman too.
KING HENRY. Brother, we shall. Go, uncle Exeter,
KING HENRY. By my troth, I will speak my conscience of the King: I
KING HENRY. Call him hither to me, soldier.
KING HENRY. Call in the messengers sent from the Dauphin.
KING HENRY. Can any of your neighbours tell, Kate? I'll ask them.
KING HENRY. Come, go we in procession to the village;
KING HENRY. Do not you wear your dagger in your cap that day, lest
KING HENRY. Do we all holy rites:
KING HENRY. Even as men wreck'd upon a sand, that look to be wash'd
KING HENRY. Even so. What are you?
KING HENRY. Fair Katherine, and most fair,
KING HENRY. Give me any gage of thine, and I will wear it in my
KING HENRY. Give me thy glove, soldier; look, here is the fellow of
KING HENRY. Gloucester, 'tis true that we are in great danger;
KING HENRY. God keep me so! Our heralds go with him:
KING HENRY. God quit you in his mercy! Hear your sentence.
KING HENRY. God-a-mercy, old heart! thou speak'st cheerfully.
KING HENRY. Harry le Roy.
KING HENRY. Here, Fluellen; wear thou this favour for me, and stick
KING HENRY. Here, uncle Exeter, fill this glove with crowns,
KING HENRY. How canst thou make me satisfaction?
KING HENRY. How now! What means this, herald? know'st thou not
KING HENRY. How now! what's the matter?
KING HENRY. How now, Fluellen! Cam'st thou from the bridge?
KING HENRY. How yet resolves the Governor of the town?
KING HENRY. I am a gentleman of a company.
KING HENRY. I am content, so the maiden cities you talk of may wait
KING HENRY. I blame you not;
KING HENRY. I dare say you love him not so ill to wish him here
KING HENRY. I doubt not that, since we are well persuaded
KING HENRY. I embrace it.
KING HENRY. I fear thou wilt once more come again for a ransom.
KING HENRY. I myself heard the King say he would not be ransom'd.
KING HENRY. I pray thee bear my former answer back:
KING HENRY. I pray you, then, in love and dear alliance,
KING HENRY. I said so, dear Katherine, and I must not blush to
KING HENRY. I tell thee truly, herald,
KING HENRY. I thank you; God be with you!
KING HENRY. I was not angry since I came to France
KING HENRY. I wear it for a memorable honour;
KING HENRY. I would have her learn, my fair cousin, how perfectly I
KING HENRY. If I live to see it, I will never trust his word after.
KING HENRY. If ever I live to see it, I will challenge it.
KING HENRY. If, Duke of Burgundy, you would the peace
KING HENRY. Indeed, the French may lay twenty French crowns to one
KING HENRY. Is't so, my lords of England?
KING HENRY. It is not a fashion for the maids in France to kiss
KING HENRY. It is so; and you may, some of you, thank love for my
KING HENRY. It may be his enemy is a gentlemen of great sort, quite
KING HENRY. It sorts well with your fierceness.
KING HENRY. It was ourself thou didst abuse.
KING HENRY. Know'st thou Gower?
KING HENRY. Lives he, good uncle? Thrice within this hour
KING HENRY. Madame my interpreter, what says she?
KING HENRY. Marry, if you would put me to verses or to dance for
KING HENRY. May I with right and conscience make this claim?
KING HENRY. My Lord of Warwick and my brother Gloucester,
KING HENRY. My brother Gloucester's voice? Ay;
KING HENRY. Nay, it will please him well, Kate- it shall please
KING HENRY. No, I am a Welshman.
KING HENRY. No, Kate? I will tell thee in French, which I am sure
KING HENRY. No, faith, is't not, Kate; but thy speaking of my
KING HENRY. No, it is not possible you should love the enemy of
KING HENRY. No, my good knight:
KING HENRY. No: 'tis hereafter to know, but now to promise; do but
KING HENRY. No; nor it is not meet he should. For though I speak it
KING HENRY. Not yet, my cousin; we would be resolv'd,
KING HENRY. Now sits the wind fair, and we will aboard.
KING HENRY. Now, fie upon my false French! By mine honour, in true
KING HENRY. Now, herald, are the dead numb'red?
KING HENRY. Now, welcome, Kate; and bear me witness all,
KING HENRY. O Kate, nice customs curtsy to great kings. Dear Kate,
KING HENRY. O fair Katherine, if you will love me soundly with your
KING HENRY. O, let us yet be merciful!
KING HENRY. Open your gates. [Exit GOVERNOR] Come, uncle Exeter,
KING HENRY. Our tongue is rough, coz, and my condition is not
KING HENRY. Peace to this meeting, wherefore we are met!
KING HENRY. Praised be God, and not our strength, for it!
KING HENRY. Pray thee, go seek him, and bring him to my tent.
KING HENRY. Prepare we for our marriage; on which day,
KING HENRY. Send for him, good uncle.
KING HENRY. Shall Kate be my wife?
KING HENRY. So, if a son that is by his father sent about
KING HENRY. Soldier, why wear'st thou that glove in thy cap?
KING HENRY. Sure, we thank you.
KING HENRY. Take it, brave York. Now, soldiers, march away;
KING HENRY. Thanks, good my countryman.
KING HENRY. The Princess is the better English-woman. I' faith,
KING HENRY. The mercy that was quick in us but late
KING HENRY. Then I will kiss your lips, Kate.
KING HENRY. Then call we this the field of Agincourt,
KING HENRY. Then keep thy vow, sirrah, when thou meet'st the
KING HENRY. Then you are a better than the King.
KING HENRY. Then, Richard Earl of Cambridge, there is yours;
KING HENRY. Then, good my lord, teach your cousin to consent
KING HENRY. There.
KING HENRY. They did, Fluellen.
KING HENRY. This moral ties me over to time and a hot summer; and
KING HENRY. This note doth tell me of ten thousand French
KING HENRY. Thou dost not wish more help from England, coz?
KING HENRY. Thou dost thy office fairly. Turn thee back,
KING HENRY. Though it appear a little out of fashion,
KING HENRY. To cry amen to that, thus we appear.
KING HENRY. To kiss.
KING HENRY. Under Sir Thomas Erpingham.
KING HENRY. Unfold it.
KING HENRY. Upon that I kiss your hand, and I can you my queen.
KING HENRY. We are glad the Dauphin is so pleasant with us;
KING HENRY. We are in God's hand, brother, not in theirs.
KING HENRY. We are no tyrant, but a Christian king,
KING HENRY. We do not mean the coursing snatchers only,
KING HENRY. We hope to make the sender blush at it.
KING HENRY. We judge no less. Uncle of Exeter,
KING HENRY. We must not only arm t' invade the French,
KING HENRY. We therefore have great cause of thankfulness,
KING HENRY. We would have all such offenders so cut off. And we
KING HENRY. Well have we done, thrice-valiant countrymen;
KING HENRY. Well then, I know thee; what shall I know of thee?
KING HENRY. Well then, the peace,
KING HENRY. Well, I will do it, though I take thee in the King's
KING HENRY. What is thy name? I know thy quality.
KING HENRY. What men have you lost, Fluellen!
KING HENRY. What prisoners of good sort are taken, uncle?
KING HENRY. What says she, fair one? that the tongues of men are
KING HENRY. What think you, Captain Fluellen, is it fit this
KING HENRY. What treasure, uncle?
KING HENRY. Where is my gracious Lord of Canterbury?
KING HENRY. Who hath sent thee now?
KING HENRY. Who serv'st thou under?
KING HENRY. Why, now thou hast unwish'd five thousand men;
KING HENRY. Yes, Captain; but with this acknowledgment,
KING HENRY. Yes.
KING HENRY. Yet leave our cousin Katherine here with us;
KING HENRY. Yet they do wink and yield, as love is blind and
KING HENRY. Your reproof is something too round; I should be angry
KING. 'Tis seldom when the bee doth leave her comb
KING. And how accompanied?
KING. And how accompanied? Canst thou tell that?
KING. And wherefore should these good news make me sick?
KING. Are these things then necessities?
KING. But wherefore did he take away the crown?
KING. Doth any name particular belong
KING. Go call the Earls of Surrey and of Warwick;
KING. Good old knight,
KING. Humphrey, my son of Gloucester,
KING. I know thee not, old man. Fall to thy prayers.
KING. I pray you take me up, and bear me hence
KING. I will take your counsel.
KING. Is it good morrow, lords?
KING. Is not his brother, Thomas of Clarence, with him?
KING. Laud be to God! Even there my life must end.
KING. Let there be no noise made, my gentle friends;
KING. Look, look, here comes my John of Lancaster.
KING. Most subject is the fattest soil to weeds;
KING. My Lord Chief Justice, speak to that vain man.
KING. No?
KING. Nothing but well to thee, Thomas of Clarence.
KING. Now, lords, if God doth give successful end
KING. O God of battles, steel my soldiers' hearts,
KING. O God! that one might read the book of fate,
KING. O Westmoreland, thou art a summer bird,
KING. O my son,
KING. Once more unto the breach, dear friends, once more;
KING. Set me the crown upon my pillow here.
KING. The Prince hath ta'en it hence. Go, seek him out.
KING. The Prince of Wales! Where is he? Let me see him.
KING. Then you perceive the body of our kingdom
KING. This new and gorgeous garment, majesty,
KING. Thou bring'st me happiness and peace, son John;
KING. Thy wish was father, Harry, to that thought.
KING. Warwick! Gloucester! Clarence!
KING. What's he that wishes so?
KING. Where is the crown? Who took it from my pillow?
KING. Why art thou not at Windsor with him, Thomas?
KING. Why did you leave me here alone, my lords?
KING. Why then, good morrow to you all, my lords.
KING. You all look strangely on me; and you most.
KING. You are right, Justice, and you weigh this well;
LADY NORTHUMBERLAND. I have given over, I will speak no more.
LADY NORTHUMBERLAND. O, fly to Scotland
LADY PERCY. If they get ground and vantage of the King,
LADY PERCY. O, yet, for God's sake, go not to these wars!
LEWIS, the Dauphin                DUKE OF BURGUNDY
LORD BARDOLPH. As good as heart can wish.
LORD BARDOLPH. I cannot think, my lord, your son is dead.
LORD BARDOLPH. I spake with one, my lord, that came from thence;
LORD BARDOLPH. It was, my lord; who lin'd himself with hope,
LORD BARDOLPH. My lord, I over-rode him on the way;
LORD BARDOLPH. My lord, I'll tell you what:
LORD BARDOLPH. The question then, Lord Hastings, standeth thus:
LORD BARDOLPH. This strained passion doth you wrong, my lord.
LORD BARDOLPH. We all that are engaged to this loss
LORD BARDOLPH. What, is the King but five and twenty thousand?
LORD BARDOLPH. Who is it like should lead his forces hither?
LORD BARDOLPH. Who- he?
LORD BARDOLPH. Yea, marry, there's the point;
LORD BARDOLPH. Yes, if this present quality of war-
LORD SCROOP,            "         "     "    "
LORD TALBOT, afterwards EARL OF SHREWSBURY
LORDS. Amen!
Lords, Ladies, Officers, Soldiers, Messengers, Attendants
Lords, Warders of the Tower, Heralds, Officers, Soldiers,
MACMORRIS,              "      "  "    "     "
MACMORRIS. By Chrish, la, tish ill done! The work ish give over,
MACMORRIS. I do not know you so good a man as myself; so
MACMORRIS. It is no time to discourse, so Chrish save me. The day
MACMORRIS. Of my nation? What ish my nation? Ish a villain, and a
MARGARET, daughter to Reignier, afterwards married to
MASTER-GUNNER OF ORLEANS, and his SON
MAYOR of LONDON
MESSENGER. Ambassadors from Harry King of England
MESSENGER. My Lord High Constable, the English lie within fifteen
MESSENGER. My honourable lords, health to you all!
MESSENGER. No treachery, but want of men and money.
MESSENGER. The English are embattl'd, you French peers.
MESSENGER. The Lord Grandpre.
MESSENGER. West of this forest, scarcely off a mile,
MONTJOY. I shall deliver so. Thanks to your Highness.     Exit
MONTJOY. I shall, King Harry. And so fare thee well:
MONTJOY. Montjoy.
MONTJOY. My master's mind.
MONTJOY. No, great King;
MONTJOY. Once more I come to know of thee, King Harry,
MONTJOY. The Constable of France.
MONTJOY. The day is yours.
MONTJOY. They call it Agincourt.
MONTJOY. Thus says my king. Say thou to Harry of England: Though we
MONTJOY. You know me by my habit.
MORTON. 'Tis more than time. And, my most noble lord,
MORTON. Douglas is living, and your brother, yet;
MORTON. I am sorry I should force you to believe
MORTON. I ran from Shrewsbury, my noble lord;
MORTON. Sweet Earl, divorce not wisdom from your honour.
MORTON. You are too great to be by me gainsaid;
MOULDY. And, good Master Corporal Captain, for my old dame's sake,
MOULDY. Here, an't please you.
MOULDY. I was prick'd well enough before, an you could have let me
MOULDY. Spent!
MOULDY. Yea, an't please you.
MOWBRAY. Be it so.
MOWBRAY. But he hath forc'd us to compel this offer;
MOWBRAY. I think it is my Lord of Westmoreland.
MOWBRAY. I well allow the occasion of our amis;
MOWBRAY. If not, we ready are to try our fortunes
MOWBRAY. Is this proceeding just and honourable?
MOWBRAY. Shall we go draw our numbers, and set on?
MOWBRAY. So much the worse, if your own rule be true.
MOWBRAY. The just proportion that we gave them out.
MOWBRAY. There is a thing within my bosom tells me
MOWBRAY. This had been cheerful after victory.
MOWBRAY. Thus do the hopes we have in him touch ground
MOWBRAY. Well, by my will we shall admit no parley.
MOWBRAY. What thing, in honour, had my father lost
MOWBRAY. Why not to him in part, and to us all
MOWBRAY. Yea, but our valuation shall be such
MOWBRAY. You wish me health in very happy season,
MOWBRAY. Your Grace of York, in God's name then, set forward.
Messengers, English and French Attendants. Fiends appearing
NORTHUMBERLAND. Alas, sweet wife, my honour is at pawn;
NORTHUMBERLAND. Beshrew your heart,
NORTHUMBERLAND. Come, come, go in with me. 'Tis with my mind
NORTHUMBERLAND. For this I shall have time enough to mourn.
NORTHUMBERLAND. Ha! Again:
NORTHUMBERLAND. Here comes my servant Travers, whom I sent
NORTHUMBERLAND. How doth my son and brother?
NORTHUMBERLAND. How is this deriv'd?
NORTHUMBERLAND. I knew of this before; but, to speak truth,
NORTHUMBERLAND. I pray thee, loving wife, and gentle daughter,
NORTHUMBERLAND. Now, Travers, what good tidings comes with you?
NORTHUMBERLAND. Why should that gentleman that rode by Travers
NORTHUMBERLAND. Why, he is dead.
NORTHUMBERLAND. Yea, this man's brow, like to a title-leaf,
NORTHUMBERLAND. Yet, for all this, say not that Percy's dead.
NYM,         "    "   "    "     "
NYM. Faith, I will live so long as I may, that's the certain of it;
NYM. For my part, I care not; I say little, but when time shall
NYM. Good morrow, Lieutenant Bardolph.
NYM. How now, mine host Pistol!
NYM. I am not Barbason: you cannot conjure me. I have an humour to
NYM. I cannot kiss, that is the humour of it; but adieu.
NYM. I cannot tell; things must be as they may. Men may sleep, and
NYM. I shall have my eight shillings I won of you at betting?
NYM. I will cut thy throat one time or other, in fair terms; that
NYM. Pish!
NYM. Pray thee, Corporal, stay; the knocks are too hot, and for
NYM. Shall we shog? The King will be gone from Southampton.
NYM. That now I will have; that's the humour of it.
NYM. The King hath run bad humours on the knight; that's the even
NYM. The King is a good king, but it must be as it may; he passes
NYM. These be good humours. Your honour wins bad humours.
NYM. They say he cried out of sack.
NYM. Will you shog off? I would have you solus.
NYM. You'll pay me the eight shillings I won of you at betting?
NYM. [Shaking hands] Well, then, that's the humour of't.
NYM. [Sheathing his sword] I shall have my noble?
ORLEANS. 'Tis not the first time you were overshot.
ORLEANS. And I will take up that with 'Give the devil his due.'
ORLEANS. Ay, but these English are shrewdly out of beef.
ORLEANS. By the white hand of my lady, he's a gallant prince.
ORLEANS. Foolish curs, that run winking into the mouth of a Russian
ORLEANS. He is simply the most active gentleman of France.
ORLEANS. He needs not; it is no hidden virtue in him.
ORLEANS. He never did harm that I heard of.
ORLEANS. He's of the colour of the nutmeg.
ORLEANS. I have heard a sonnet begin so to one's mistress.
ORLEANS. I know him to be valiant.
ORLEANS. Ill-wind never said well.
ORLEANS. Is this the king we sent to for his ransom?
ORLEANS. It is now two o'clock; but let me see- by ten
ORLEANS. No more, cousin.
ORLEANS. O Seigneur! le jour est perdu, tout est perdu!
ORLEANS. O brave spirit!
ORLEANS. Rien puis? L'air et le feu.
ORLEANS. That they lack; for if their heads had any intellectual
ORLEANS. The Dauphin longs for morning.
ORLEANS. The sun doth gild our armour; up, my lords!
ORLEANS. We are enow yet living in the field
ORLEANS. What a wretched and peevish fellow is this King of
ORLEANS. What's he?
ORLEANS. Will it never be morning?
ORLEANS. You are as well provided of both as any prince in the
ORLEANS. You are the better at proverbs by how much 'A fool's bolt
ORLEANS. You have an excellent armour; but let my horse have his
ORLEANS. Your mistress bears well.
One word more, I beseech you. If you be not too much cloy'd with fat
PAGE. 'A calls me e'en now, my lord, through a red lattice, and I
PAGE. A proper gentlewoman, sir, and a kinswoman of my master's.
PAGE. And for mine, sir, I will govern it.
PAGE. Away, you rascally Althaea's dream, away!
PAGE. Away, you scullion! you rampallian! you fustilarian!
PAGE. Ephesians, my lord, of the old church.
PAGE. He said, sir, the water itself was a good healthy water; but
PAGE. He said, sir, you should procure him better assurance than
PAGE. He's gone into Smithfield to buy your worship horse.
PAGE. Marry, my lord, Althaea dreamt she was delivered of a
PAGE. None, my lord, but old Mistress Quickly and Mistress Doll
PAGE. Pray thee go down.
PAGE. Seven groats and two pence.
PAGE. Sir, here comes the nobleman that committed the
PAGE. Sir?
PAGE. The music is come, sir.
PAGE. You must speak louder; my master is deaf.
PETO. The King your father is at Westminster;
PISTOL,      "    "   "    "     "
PISTOL. 'Couple a gorge!'
PISTOL. 'Solus,' egregious dog? O viper vile!
PISTOL. 'Tis 'semper idem' for 'obsque hoc nihil est.' 'Tis all in
PISTOL. A foutra for the world and worldlings base!
PISTOL. A foutra for thine office!
PISTOL. A noble shalt thou have, and present pay;
PISTOL. All hell shall stir for this.
PISTOL. An oath of mickle might; and fury shall abate.
PISTOL. And I:
PISTOL. Art thou his friend?
PISTOL. As I suck blood, I will some mercy show.
PISTOL. As good a gentleman as the Emperor.
PISTOL. As manhood shall compound: push home.
PISTOL. As nail in door. The things I speak are just.
PISTOL. Bardolph, a soldier, firm and sound of heart,
PISTOL. Base Troyan, thou shalt die.
PISTOL. Base is the slave that pays.
PISTOL. Base tike, call'st thou me host?
PISTOL. Be merciful, great duke, to men of mould.
PISTOL. Bid him prepare; for I will cut his throat.
PISTOL. Brass, cur?
PISTOL. By this leek, I will most horribly revenge- I eat and eat,
PISTOL. Cality! Calen o custure me! Art thou a gentleman?
PISTOL. Captain, I thee beseech to do me favours.
PISTOL. Come, let's away. My love, give me thy lips.
PISTOL. Die and be damn'd! and figo for thy friendship!
PISTOL. Die men like dogs! Give crowns like pins! Have we not Hiren
PISTOL. Discuss unto me: art thou officer,
PISTOL. Doth Fortune play the huswife with me now?
PISTOL. Expound unto me, boy.
PISTOL. Fortune is Bardolph's foe, and frowns on him;
PISTOL. God bless thy lungs, good knight!
PISTOL. God let me not live but I will murder your ruff for this.
PISTOL. God save you, Sir John!
PISTOL. Good.
PISTOL. Ha! art thou bedlam? Dost thou thirst, base Troyan,
PISTOL. Harry the Fourth- or Fifth?
PISTOL. I know you, Mistress Dorothy.
PISTOL. I take thy groat in earnest of revenge.
PISTOL. I will discharge upon her, Sir John, with two bullets.
PISTOL. I'll see her damn'd first; to Pluto's damn'd lake, by this
PISTOL. In cash most justly paid.
PISTOL. Know'st thou Fluellen?
PISTOL. Le Roy! a Cornish name; art thou of Cornish crew?
PISTOL. Let floods o'erswell, and fiends for food howl on!
PISTOL. Let housewifery appear; keep close, I thee command.
PISTOL. Let us condole the knight; for, lambkins, we will live.
PISTOL. Let vultures vile seize on his lungs also!
PISTOL. Master Fer! I'll fer him, and firk him, and ferret him-
PISTOL. Me a groat!
PISTOL. Moy shall not serve; I will have forty moys;
PISTOL. Must I bite?
PISTOL. My knight, I will inflame thy noble liver
PISTOL. My name is Pistol call'd.                         Exit
PISTOL. No; for my manly heart doth earn.
PISTOL. Not I! I tell thee what, Corporal Bardolph, I could tear
PISTOL. Not for Cadwallader and all his goats.
PISTOL. Not the ill wind which blows no man to good. Sweet knight,
PISTOL. Nym, thou hast spoke the right;
PISTOL. O braggart vile and damned furious wight!
PISTOL. O, Signieur Dew should be a gentleman.
PISTOL. Owy, cuppele gorge, permafoy!
PISTOL. Pish for thee, Iceland dog! thou prick-ear'd cur of
PISTOL. Puff!
PISTOL. Qui va la?
PISTOL. Quiet thy cudgel: thou dost see I eat.
PISTOL. Say'st thou me so? Is that a ton of moys?
PISTOL. Shall dunghill curs confront the Helicons?
PISTOL. Si fortuna me tormenta, spero me contenta.
PISTOL. Sir John, God save you!
PISTOL. Sweet knight, I kiss thy neaf. What! we have seen the seven
PISTOL. Sword is an oath, and oaths must have their course.
PISTOL. Tell him I'll knock his leek about his pate
PISTOL. Tell him my fury shall abate, and I
PISTOL. The King's a bawcock and a heart of gold,
PISTOL. The fig of Spain!                                 Exit
PISTOL. The figo for thee, then!
PISTOL. The heavens thee guard and keep, most royal imp of fame!
PISTOL. The plain-song is most just; for humours do abound:
PISTOL. Then feed and be fat, my fair Calipolis.
PISTOL. Then to you, Mistress Dorothy; I will charge you.
PISTOL. There roar'd the sea, and trumpet-clangor sounds.
PISTOL. These be good humours, indeed! Shall packhorses,
PISTOL. Thrust him down stairs! Know we not Galloway nags?
PISTOL. Touch her soft mouth and march.
PISTOL. Trail'st thou the puissant pike?
PISTOL. Under which king, Bezonian? Speak, or die.
PISTOL. What are his words?
PISTOL. What! shall we have incision? Shall we imbrue?
PISTOL. What, I do bring good news?
PISTOL. Why then, rejoice therefore.
PISTOL. Why, then, lament therefore.
PISTOL. Yield, cur!
POINS.  [Reads]  'John Falstaff, knight'- Every man must know that
POINS. And look whether the fiery Trigon, his man, be not lisping
POINS. Answer, thou dead elm, answer.
POINS. By this light, I am well spoke on; I can hear it with mine
POINS. Come, you virtuous ass, you bashful fool, must you be
POINS. Deliver'd with good respect. And how doth the martlemas,
POINS. Go to; I stand the push of your one thing that you will
POINS. God send the wench no worse fortune! But I never said so.
POINS. He sure means brevity in breath, short-winded.
POINS. How ill it follows, after you have laboured so hard, you
POINS. I am your shadow, my lord; I'll follow you.
POINS. I warrant you, as common as the way between Saint Albans and
POINS. I would think thee a most princely hypocrite.
POINS. Is it not strange that desire should so many years outlive
POINS. Is't come to that? I had thought weariness durst not have
POINS. Let's beat him before his whore.
POINS. Marry, the immortal part needs a physician; but that moves
POINS. My lord, I'll steep this letter in sack and make him eat it.
POINS. My lord, he will drive you out of your revenge and turn all
POINS. No abuse!
POINS. O that this blossom could be kept from cankers!
POINS. Put on two leathern jerkins and aprons, and wait upon him at
POINS. The reason?
POINS. Very hardly upon such a subject.
POINS. Why, a prince should not be so loosely studied as to
POINS. Why, because you have been so lewd and so much engraffed to
POINS. Why, this is a certificate.
POINS. Yes, faith; and let it be an excellent good thing.
PRINCE & POINS. Anon, anon, sir.                   [Advancing]
PRINCE HUMPHREY. Comfort, your Majesty!
PRINCE HUMPHREY. Exceeding ill.
PRINCE HUMPHREY. He alt'red much upon the hearing it.
PRINCE HUMPHREY. He came not through the chamber where we stay'd.
PRINCE HUMPHREY. I do not know, my lord.
PRINCE HUMPHREY. I think he's gone to hunt, my lord, at Windsor.
PRINCE HUMPHREY. No, my good lord, he is in presence here.
PRINCE HUMPHREY. O, good my lord, you have lost a friend indeed;
PRINCE HUMPHREY. The people fear me; for they do observe
PRINCE HUMPHREY. This apoplexy will certain be his end.
PRINCE JOHN. A famous rebel art thou, Colville.
PRINCE JOHN. Fare you well, Falstaff. I, in my condition,
PRINCE JOHN. Go, my lord,
PRINCE JOHN. Good morrow, cousin Warwick, good morrow.
PRINCE JOHN. Health, peace, and happiness, to my royal father!
PRINCE JOHN. I give it you, and will maintain my word;
PRINCE JOHN. I like them all and do allow them well;
PRINCE JOHN. I like this fair proceeding of the King's.
PRINCE JOHN. I pawn'd thee none:
PRINCE JOHN. I trust, lords, we shall lie to-night together.
PRINCE JOHN. I will lay odds that, ere this year expire,
PRINCE JOHN. Is thy name Colville?
PRINCE JOHN. It was more of his courtesy than your deserving.
PRINCE JOHN. Now, have you left pursuit?
PRINCE JOHN. Send Colville, with his confederates,
PRINCE JOHN. The King hath call'd his parliament, my lord.
PRINCE JOHN. The heat is past; follow no further now.
PRINCE JOHN. The word of peace is rend'red. Hark, how they shout!
PRINCE JOHN. They know their duties.
PRINCE JOHN. Thine's too heavy to mount.
PRINCE JOHN. Thine's too thick to shine.
PRINCE JOHN. Though no man be assur'd what grace to find,
PRINCE JOHN. We meet like men that had forgot to speak.
PRINCE JOHN. Well, peace be with him that hath made us heavy!
PRINCE JOHN. YOU are too shallow, Hastings, much to shallow,
PRINCE JOHN. You are well encount'red here, my cousin Mowbray.
PRINCE.  [Reads]  'I commend me to thee, I commend thee, and I
PRINCE. A crown's worth of good interpretation. There 'tis, boy.
PRINCE. And how doth thy master, Bardolph?
PRINCE. And the boy that I gave Falstaff. 'A had him from me
PRINCE. And to thee.
PRINCE. And yours, most noble Bardolph!
PRINCE. Before God, I am exceeding weary.
PRINCE. Belike then my appetite was not-princely got; for, by my
PRINCE. By heaven, Poins, I feel me much to blame
PRINCE. By this hand, thou thinkest me as far in the devil's book
PRINCE. Even such kin as the parish heifers are to the town bull.
PRINCE. Faith, it does me; though it discolours the complexion of
PRINCE. Fare you well; go.            Exeunt BARDOLPH and PAGE
PRINCE. For the women?
PRINCE. From a god to a bull? A heavy descension! It was Jove's
PRINCE. Has not the boy profited?
PRINCE. Heard he the good news yet? Tell it him.
PRINCE. How might we see Falstaff bestow himself to-night in his
PRINCE. How now! Rain within doors, and none abroad!
PRINCE. I do allow this well to be as familiar with me as my dog;
PRINCE. I never thought to hear you speak again.
PRINCE. I shall drive you then to confess the wilful abuse, and
PRINCE. If he be sick with joy, he'll recover without physic.
PRINCE. Instruct us, boy; what dream, boy?
PRINCE. It shall serve among wits of no higher breeding than thine.
PRINCE. It would be every man's thought; and thou art a blessed
PRINCE. Look whe'er the wither'd elder hath not his poll claw'd
PRINCE. Marry, I tell thee it is not meet that I should be sad, now
PRINCE. My Lord of Warwick!
PRINCE. My gracious liege,
PRINCE. Nay, they will be kin to us, or they will fetch it from
PRINCE. No; I will sit and watch here by the King.
PRINCE. Not- to dispraise me, and call me pander, and
PRINCE. O, pardon me, my liege! But for my tears,
PRINCE. Peace!  [Reads]  'I will imitate the honourable Romans in
PRINCE. Peto, how now! What news?
PRINCE. Saturn and Venus this year in conjunction! What says th'
PRINCE. See now, whether pure fear and entire cowardice doth not
PRINCE. Shall I tell thee one thing, Poins?
PRINCE. Sirrah, you boy, and Bardolph, no word to your master that
PRINCE. Sup any women with him?
PRINCE. That's to make him eat twenty of his words. But do you use
PRINCE. Very true, sir, and I come to draw you out by the ears.
PRINCE. Well, thus we play the fools with the time, and the spirits
PRINCE. What company?
PRINCE. What pagan may that be?
PRINCE. What wouldst thou think of me if I should weep?
PRINCE. Where sups he? Doth the old boar feed in the old frank?
PRINCE. Who saw the Duke of Clarence?
PRINCE. Why, thou globe of sinful continents, what a life dost thou
PRINCE. Would not this nave of a wheel have his ears cut off?
PRINCE. YOU whoreson candle-mine, you, how vilely did you speak of
PRINCE. Yea; and you knew me, as you did when you ran away by
PRINCE. You, gentlewoman-
QUEEN ISABEL. God, the best maker of all marriages,
QUEEN ISABEL. Our gracious brother, I will go with them;
QUEEN ISABEL. She hath good leave.
QUEEN ISABEL. So happy be the issue, brother England,
QUEEN ISABEL. You English princes an, I do salute you.
RAMBURES, French Lord
RAMBURES. He longs to eat the English.
RAMBURES. My Lord Constable, the armour that I saw in your tent
RAMBURES. That island of England breeds very valiant creatures;
RAMBURES. What, will you have them weep our horses' blood?
RAMBURES. Who will go to hazard with me for twenty prisoners?
REIGNIER, DUKE OF ANJOU, and titular King of Naples
REIGNIER. I think by some odd gimmers or device
REIGNIER. Let's raise the siege. Why live we idly here?
REIGNIER. Salisbury is a desperate homicide;
RICHARD PLANTAGENET, son of Richard late Earl of Cambridge,
SALISBURY. God's arm strike with us! 'tis a fearful odds.
SALISBURY. My sovereign lord, bestow yourself with speed:
SCROOP. No doubt, my liege, if each man do his best.
SCROOP. Our purposes God justly hath discover'd,
SCROOP. So did you me, my liege.
SCROOP. So service shall with steeled sinews toil,
SCROOP. That's mercy, but too much security.
SECOND DRAWER. I'll see if I can find out Sneak.
SECOND DRAWER. Mass, thou say'st true. The Prince once set a dish
SECOND GROOM. The trumpets have sounded twice.
SECOND MESSENGER. Lords, view these letters full of bad
SERVANT. Falstaff, an't please your lordship.
SERVANT. He, my lord; but he hath since done good service at
SERVANT. I pray you, sir, then set your knighthood and your
SERVANT. Sir John Falstaff!
SERVANT. Sir John!
SERVANT. Sir, my lord would speak with you.
SERVANT. You mistake me, sir.
SHADOW. Here, sir.
SHADOW. My mother's son, sir.
SHALLOW.  [Within]  Sir John!
SHALLOW. 'A must, then, to the Inns o' Court shortly. I was once of
SHALLOW. 'A shall answer it. Some pigeons, Davy, a couple of
SHALLOW. 'Tis so, indeed.
SHALLOW. A colour that I fear you will die in, Sir John.
SHALLOW. A good varlet, a good varlet, a very good varlet, Sir
SHALLOW. And how doth my cousin, your bed-fellow? and your fairest
SHALLOW. And is old Double dead?
SHALLOW. Barren, barren, barren; beggars all, beggars all, Sir John
SHALLOW. Be merry, Master Bardolph; and, my little soldier there,
SHALLOW. By God's liggens, I thank thee. The knave will stick by
SHALLOW. By cock and pie, sir, you shall not away to-night.
SHALLOW. By the mass, I could anger her to th' heart. She was then
SHALLOW. By the mass, I was call'd anything; and I would have done
SHALLOW. By the mass, you'R crack a quart together- ha! will you
SHALLOW. By yea and no, sir. I dare say my cousin William is become
SHALLOW. Certain, 'tis certain; very sure, very sure. Death, as the
SHALLOW. Come on, come on, come on; give me your hand, sir; give me
SHALLOW. Come, Sir John, which four will you have?
SHALLOW. Davy!
SHALLOW. Davy, Davy, Davy, Davy; let me see, Davy; let me see,
SHALLOW. Death is certain. Is old Double of your town living yet?
SHALLOW. Do you like him, Sir John?
SHALLOW. Four of which you please.
SHALLOW. Give Master Bardolph some wine, Davy.
SHALLOW. Give me pardon, sir. If, sir, you come with news from the
SHALLOW. Go to; I have spoke at a word. God keep you.
SHALLOW. Go to; I say he shall have no wrong. Look about,
SHALLOW. Good morrow, honest gentlemen.
SHALLOW. Ha, 'twas a merry night. And is Jane Nightwork alive?
SHALLOW. Ha, cousin Silence, that thou hadst seen that that this
SHALLOW. Ha, ha, ha! You can do it, sir; you can do it. I commend
SHALLOW. Ha, ha, ha! most excellent, i' faith! Things that are
SHALLOW. Harry the Fourth.
SHALLOW. He greets me well, sir; I knew him a good back-sword man.
SHALLOW. He is not his craft's master, he doth not do it right. I
SHALLOW. Here is two more call'd than your number. You must have
SHALLOW. Honest Bardolph, welcome; if thou want'st anything and
SHALLOW. Honest gentleman, I know not your breeding.
SHALLOW. I am Robert Shallow, sir, a poor esquire of this county,
SHALLOW. I cannot perceive how, unless you give me your doublet,
SHALLOW. I thank thee with all my heart, kind Master Bardolph.
SHALLOW. I will not excuse you; you shall not be excus'd; excuses
SHALLOW. It doth so.
SHALLOW. It doth so.
SHALLOW. It doth, it doth, it doth.
SHALLOW. It is best, certain.
SHALLOW. It is very just. Look, here comes good Sir John. Give me
SHALLOW. It is well said, in faith, sir; and it is well said indeed
SHALLOW. Jesu, Jesu, dead! drew a good bow; and dead! 'A shot a
SHALLOW. Let it be cast, and paid. Sir John, you shall not be
SHALLOW. Marry, have we, sir. Will you sit?
SHALLOW. Marry, then- Mouldy, Bullcalf, Feeble, and Shadow.
SHALLOW. Nay, she must be old; she cannot choose but be old;
SHALLOW. Nay, you shall see my orchard, where, in an arbour, we
SHALLOW. No, Sir John; it is my cousin Silence, in commission with
SHALLOW. O, Sir John, do you remember since we lay all night in the
SHALLOW. Peace, fellow, peace; stand aside; know you where you are?
SHALLOW. Peter Bullcalf o' th' green!
SHALLOW. Shall I prick him, Sir John?
SHALLOW. Shall I prick him, sir?
SHALLOW. She never could away with me.
SHALLOW. Sir John, Sir John, do not yourself wrong. They are your
SHALLOW. Sir John, the Lord bless you; God prosper your affairs;
SHALLOW. That we have, that we have, that we have; in faith, Sir
SHALLOW. The same Sir John, the very same. I see him break
SHALLOW. There, is many complaints, Davy, against that Visor. That
SHALLOW. Thomas Wart!
SHALLOW. Under King Harry.
SHALLOW. Well conceited, Davy- about thy business, Davy.
SHALLOW. What think you, Sir John? A good-limb'd fellow; young,
SHALLOW. Where's Shadow?
SHALLOW. Where's the roll? Where's the roll? Where's the roll? Let
SHALLOW. Why, there spoke a king. Lack nothing; be merry.
SHALLOW. With red wheat, Davy. But for William cook- are there no
SHALLOW. Yea, Davy; I will use him well. A friend i' th' court is
SHALLOW. Yea, marry, Sir John; which I beseech you to let me have
SILENCE.  [Singing]
SILENCE.  [Singing]
SILENCE.  [Singing]
SILENCE.  [Singing]
SILENCE.  [Singing]  And Robin Hood, Scarlet, and John.
SILENCE. Ah, sirrah! quoth-a- we shall               [Singing]
SILENCE. Alas, a black ousel, cousin Shallow!
SILENCE. An we shall be merry, now comes in the sweet o' th' night.
SILENCE. By my troth, I was not there.
SILENCE. By'r lady, I think 'a be, but goodman Puff of Barson.
SILENCE. Dead, sir.
SILENCE. Good morrow, good cousin Shallow.
SILENCE. Here come two of Sir John Falstaffs men, as I think.
SILENCE. Indeed, sir, to my cost.
SILENCE. Is't so? Why then, say an old man can do somewhat.
SILENCE. That's fifty-five year ago.
SILENCE. Thereafter as they be- a score of good ewes may be worth
SILENCE. This Sir John, cousin, that comes hither anon about
SILENCE. We shall all follow, cousin.
SILENCE. Who, I? I have been merry twice and once ere now.
SILENCE. You were call'd 'lusty Shallow' then, cousin.
SILENCE. Your good worship is welcome.
SIR JOHN FASTOLFE
SIR THOMAS ERPINGHAM, officer in the King's army
SIR THOMAS GARGRAVE
SIR THOMAS GREY,        "         "     "    "
SIR WILLIAM GLANSDALE
SIR WILLIAM LUCY
SNARE. Here, here.
SNARE. It may chance cost some of our lives, for he will stab.
THIRD DRAWER. By the mass, here will be old uds; it will be an
THIRD DRAWER. Dispatch! The room where they supp'd is too hot;
THIRD GROOM. 'Twill be two o'clock ere they come from the
THIRD MESSENGER. My gracious lords, to add to your
THIRD MESSENGER. O no, he lives, but is took prisoner,
THIRD MESSENGER. O, no; wherein Lord Talbot was
THIRD MESSENGER. So you had need; for Orleans is besieg'd;
THOMAS BEAUFORT, DUKE OF EXETER, great-uncle to the king
TRAVERS. My lord, Sir John Umfrevile turn'd me back
VERNON, of the White Rose or York faction
WART. Here, sir.
WART. Yea, sir.
WARWICK. 'Tis call'd Jerusalem, my noble lord.
WARWICK. 'Tis one o'clock, and past.
WARWICK. Be patient, Princes; you do know these fits
WARWICK. Both which we doubt not but your Majesty
WARWICK. Call for the music in the other room.
WARWICK. Exceeding well; his cares are now all ended.
WARWICK. He's walk'd the way of nature;
WARWICK. Here comes the Prince.
WARWICK. Here comes the heavy issue of dead Harry.
WARWICK. How now! how now! what's the matter?
WARWICK. How now, my Lord Chief Justice; whither away?
WARWICK. Indeed, I think the young king loves you not.
WARWICK. It cannot be, my lord.
WARWICK. It is but as a body yet distempered;
WARWICK. Less noise! less noise!
WARWICK. Many good morrows to your Majesty!
WARWICK. My gracious lord, you look beyond him quite.
WARWICK. My lord, I found the Prince in the next room,
WARWICK. Not so much noise, my lords. Sweet Prince, speak low;
WARWICK. Speak lower, Princes, for the King recovers.
WARWICK. There is a history in all men's lives,
WARWICK. This door is open; he is gone this way.
WARWICK. We do remember; but our argument
WARWICK. We have, my liege.
WARWICK. What would your Majesty? How fares your Grace?
WARWICK. When we withdrew, my liege, we left it here.
WARWICK. Will't please your Grace to go along with us?
WESTMORELAND. But there's a saying, very old and true:
WESTMORELAND. God's will, my liege! would you and I alone,
WESTMORELAND. Good tidings, my Lord Hastings; for the which
WESTMORELAND. Health and fair greeting from our general,
WESTMORELAND. Health to my sovereign, and new happiness
WESTMORELAND. How smooth and even they do bear themselves,
WESTMORELAND. I am glad of it.
WESTMORELAND. I pledge your Grace; and if you knew what pains
WESTMORELAND. Is your assembly so?
WESTMORELAND. Mowbray. you overween to take it so.
WESTMORELAND. My sovereign lord, cheer up yourself, look up.
WESTMORELAND. O my good Lord Mowbray,
WESTMORELAND. O that we now had here
WESTMORELAND. Of fighting men they have full three-score thousand.
WESTMORELAND. Perish the man whose mind is backward now!
WESTMORELAND. Pleaseth your Grace to answer them directly
WESTMORELAND. Retreat is made, and execution stay'd.
WESTMORELAND. Shall we call in th' ambassador, my liege?
WESTMORELAND. That argues but the shame of your offence:
WESTMORELAND. That is intended in the general's name.
WESTMORELAND. The Prince is here at hand. Pleaseth your lordship
WESTMORELAND. The king hath granted every article:
WESTMORELAND. The leaders, having charge from you to stand,
WESTMORELAND. Then, my lord,
WESTMORELAND. There is no need of any such redress;
WESTMORELAND. Therefore be merry, coz; since sudden sorrow
WESTMORELAND. They